i-d7bca48e4afebc71-63	Mr President, I would like to I would briefly like to call for the approval of reservation 2 in the report.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-64	Mr President, I would like to In days like these, talking about something other than the crisis in which the world, Europe and Sweden now find themselves can be tone-deaf. However, the day-to-day activities of the Riksdag continue in that the elected representatives fulfil their obligations to the extent possible, albeit with a decimated number of members. It is an important signal to the Swedish people that the kingdom can and will be governed even in times of crisis. From the perspective of the Committee on Finance, there is, of course, much to say about the situation in the world economy with recent stock market movements and the liquidity problems faced by Swedish companies. An additional amending budget has been presented, and incentives have been launched and are in preparation. I feel confident that these will be dealt with satisfactorily. On the basis of this report, I note that the Swedish Democrats support the announcement made by the Committee on Finance to the Government on macroprudential measures and on measures to facilitate access for young adults to the housing market. Today I am content to support only SD's reservation 13 and the committee's proposal under paragraph 3.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-67	Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 5. Let me explain why. Taking out a loan to buy a house or a right-of-occupancy apartment, simply a home, is the greatest financial commitment the vast majority of people make. In Sweden we have a system in which the consumer, i.e. the borrower, is extradited to the banks' approach. A different system has been chosen in Finland. That's what our reservation is about. In Finland, it is based on the interest rate that the banks themselves have to pay for their loans. They present it to the borrower who, on the basis of that interest rate, may negotiate with the bank. Then the bank will also be forced to show what any mark-ups it wants to make and explain them to the customer. It is a much more transparent way that gives the borrower more power than the current system in Sweden does. Here the mortgage borrower is referred to some kind of list to see what the average interest rate is at present. We believe that the way that is used in Finland gives the borrower more opportunity to lower his interest rate. In Finland, net interest income for banks is also much lower. That's what our reservation is about. I'm in favour of it. We have a number of other motions and motions in the report. I will not raise these, except for the request for SBAB which would like to have a larger and broader mission than today. SBAB could become a socially beneficial bank with a special mission to assist people and businesses in rural areas. But at this point I choose not to lift up that exercise.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-72	Mr President, I would like to When we are debating financial stability and financial market issues today, we are doing so on a completely different basis than was the case just a few months ago when the committee started examining the report. The spread of the new Corona virus has triggered a global crisis. Sweden and most other countries in the world around us are under great pressure. First of all, the virus threatens people's lives and health. But we are already seeing significant negative effects on the global and Swedish economy. The whole of society will be affected by this situation. This applies to individuals as well as companies, organisations and public activities. In recent years, an important part of economic policy has been to build resilience. Public finances have been strengthened. Government debt has been amortised. The buffers in the financial system have been screwed up, and the requirements for banks in particular have been tightened. Now the strength that has been built up can be used to safeguard our common economy for the benefit of people and businesses. In recent days, the government and our authorities have freed up hundreds of billions of liquidity and increased opportunities not least to lend money to companies. This releases a tremendous force into the Swedish economy. We do this, of course, because we have opponents – a virus and an economic downturn – which pose a huge challenge. Together, we will do the utmost to protect people and businesses in this situation. I am very pleased that the House and the political system are that man-made behind this line. This is something we do together. We will have many opportunities to discuss the motions and proposals put forward in this report. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-77	Mr President, I would like to The report that is now before Parliament says something that is extremely important for our common capacity to deal with the crisis that we are all going through. The report states that the Swedish economy and not least Swedish banks are stable. The resilience that has been built up from experience from previous crises is extremely important now. There is now money to release into Swedish society to Swedish companies. It can contribute to their liquidity and allow them to retain their staff even when the cash register is temporarily empty. This is extremely important. Therefore, Finansinspektionen, the Riksbank and the Government can now act forcefully to create a way to deal with the crisis that we are now going through. The report also points to a number of risks that we need to keep track of in the long term. Parliament must also be able to think long-term in the crisis situation. We in the Committee on Finance agree that we will need to look more at the possibility of entering the owned housing market. It is good that we agree on that. Furthermore, the report points out that the long-term climate and cyber threats continue to pose serious risks to our society and our economy. We must also bear this in mind in the work that is taking place here and now. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-ARoZqt2CBu7Qi11fey8y38	Mr President, I would like to I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 2. Consumer law may sound a little tricky, and it's actually a bit tricky too. The Contract Conditions Act, the Marketing Act, the Act on Distance Contracts, the Consumer Sales Law, the Consumer Services Act and the Price Information Act are some examples of laws included in consumer law. In fact, these laws affect much of what we do in everyday life. What are my rights as a consumer when I sign a mobile phone subscription, buy a shirt on mail order or buy diapers for my newborn child? What about when I sign a contract for a new apartment, when I book a train trip and when I was not really satisfied with the renovation of the kitchen? What is the responsibility of companies when it comes, for example, to advertising against children? And what can we, as consumers, really demand? One might consider whether it is not time to give consumers the opportunity to understand their rights more easily by introducing a consumer code that brings together all the laws and regulations. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, many events are held every year around the country. It is common for Swedes to go to concerts, sports events, festivals and theatres. The popular events are quickly sold out, and buyers really need to be on hold to get tickets. Tickets are usually also sold quite many months before the event. Since the right of withdrawal does not generally apply to the purchase of event tickets, it is common for tickets to be resold in the second place if the original buyer has changed his mind for various reasons. But there are also cases where both private individuals and companies buy desirable tickets to sell them on for profit. This is a problem. Since second-hand sellers can set the price they want on tickets, second-hand tickets are sold to a large extent at a significantly higher price than they originally cost. This means that the possibility of buying first-hand tickets is impaired and those who cannot pay excess prices are not given the opportunity to visit events. A secondary buyer also takes the risk that the ticket is not genuine, that the seats do not match what was promised or that the same ticket was sold to several people. It just feels insecure to buy tickets in the second place, because you don't know if you're being cheated. Through the Modernised Consumer Protection Directive, the EU has introduced a ban on secondary sales of tickets purchased by automated means, but more is needed. In several other countries, such as Denmark and Norway, it is prohibited to resell tickets at a higher price than the organiser. The incentive to buy extra tickets and sell on to earn money then disappears. Such a ban in Sweden would increase consumer protection and prevent rogue operators. Mr President, I would like to Today, consumers are treated differently depending on whether they choose to travel by air or by train. Train passengers are disadvantaged vis-à-vis air passengers, and I think that is wrong. A while ago, the EU introduced a new rail passenger regulation with the aim of improving for those travelling by train. Many of the points are good, but some are also fuzzyly formulated and difficult to understand. This applies, for example, to the right to have your ticket refunded if the train is cancelled. When you travel by air you always get the ticket price back if the flight is cancelled, completely regardless of what the reason is. Whether the same would apply to train passengers would have been extremely difficult for the government to respond to during the negotiations in the EU Council. I asked questions to both the Minister and his colleagues, but no one could give a straight answer to that. When I then asked a written question, however, I got the answer that even train passengers will always have the ticket refunded if the trip is cancelled. Let's hope that's what's going on. Nevertheless, the conditions differ, which rhymes badly with the government's stated goal that more people should vacation on rails. For example, if you book a train trip to Spain for the whole family and the train is cancelled, you must wait up to 30 days before you may receive the money back. If you had booked the flight by air, you would have received the ticket price and any compensation deposited in the account within 7 days. It is not reasonable that different conditions apply to different modes of travel. It further complicates the consumer. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to mention something about the support for organisations paid out by the Swedish Consumer Agency. In order to receive the aid, the organisation must be national, democratic and party-politically independent and operate non-profit-making activities. However, it has been shown that aid has been paid to local organisations and other organisations where it may be considered doubtful whether the main aim is to protect consumers' interests. Nor is it unusual for organisations to have a clear political direction and for their representatives to openly express support for certain political orientations, even if they are not officially associated with any party. It is, unsurprisingly, almost always a list to the left. This makes the independence of the organisations highly questionable. Many of these organisations also have links to social democracy. The control of aid applicants must therefore be tightened up so that tax resources are not misallocated. The importance of political independence must be made clearer. When it comes to taxpayers' money, it is particularly important that we be careful. In conclusion, Mr President, it is not easy to be a consumer today. The rules are many and hard to understand. The Swedish Democrats come here with a number of suggestions for improvements and simplifications, including as regards the purchase of second-hand tickets and rights for train passengers. Unfortunately, the government rejects these proposals, which is a pity. Consumers need simpler and clearer rules. Here, the parties should jointly try to find ways to facilitate and support people in their everyday lives. For me, it is obvious that as a consumer you should always know exactly what it is you buy and what you spend your money on. What does the article contain, and how does it affect my health? What exactly do I get for the money?
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-95	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask you to accept Amendment No 6. However, I naturally support all of our reservations in the report. The same applies to the exercise that is being dealt with in a simplified way. Swedish consumer law is very strong in many ways, but it sometimes needs clarification. There is a need to review the information provided to consumers so that they have clarity and are able to take on board the conditions that exist. We will deal with this in another matter. I believe that consumer law is strong as a whole but needs to be made easier to understand. Consumer law is also very broad. We heard the previous speaker talking about a number of subjects. I am going to move around other subjects that also have to do with consumer law, including live animals. This involves both the purchase of live animals and the treatment of live animals. There is a need to change both the Consumer Sales Law, so that live animals are excluded, and the Consumer Services Act, so that the treatment of live animals is added. The reason why I want live animals to be excluded from the Consumer Sales Law is because it is a matter of the right of complaint. It is unreasonable for a trader to have a full right of complaint. It's hard to tell when an animal has fallen ill. Was that four, five or seven months ago? According to an EU decision taken in May 2019, live animals can be exempted from the Consumer Sales Law. What the government has done is set up an investigation to look at whether animals can be totally or partially excluded. The reason for my reservation is that I believe that living animals should simply be excluded. As I said, the treatment of animals is not included in the Consumer Services Act. This helps to make it difficult as a consumer to complain about the treatment that has taken place. It was proposed in the Ministry memos 2008 and 2009 and by the Competition Authority 2018 that live animals should be included in the Consumer Services Act. I think it is time for the government to ensure that this happens. This could lead to better cost monitoring on the market. Competition could benefit the consumer in the treatment of live animals. The General Complaints Board does not deal with matters that require veterinary knowledge, which means that a customer cannot receive compensation for incorrect treatments. It is not sustainable for the consumer. As I said, it is therefore time to extend the responsibility. Mr President, I would like to Another area that needs to be reviewed in order to strengthen the consumer in strong consumer law is the local consumer guidance. Together with the Moderates, I have a reservation in favour of our claim that consumer guidance needs to be more local. The number of cases in the General Complaints Board is increasing. I believe that this could be linked to the fact that local consumer guidance has been reduced in recent years. We should remember that municipal consumer guidance is a municipal responsibility. It is not governed by law, which means that I can understand municipalities that today choose to reduce this activity due to the situation they find themselves in. I do not mean to blame the municipalities. What I want to see is how we can then help municipalities and how we can help consumers to get a more locally present consumer guidance. We have Hello consumer, who has been added in recent years. It was intended as a digital complement to municipal consumer guidance, but has become part of what replaces local consumer guidance. I would like the Swedish Consumer Agency, perhaps together with the Swedish Consumer Complaints Board, to look at how we can strengthen the local presence together with the municipality, nearby municipalities and local companies and how we can get better local consumer guidance, so that we get fewer cases to the General Complaints Board, which in turn can redistribute funds within existing funds. That is the reason for the reservation. The fourth area I want to touch on in consumer law is short-term loans. These need to be limited in terms of both marketing and capping interest rates. These are opinions that we have expressed in motions before. Since we wrote the last motion, the government has given a commission to the Swedish Consumer Agency to review this in order to limit the over-indebtedness that exists. For this reason, I choose to give a specific opinion on this issue instead of a reservation– I see that there is work going on.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-105	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for our reservation 4 in the report to be approved. It is positive that the Riksdag decided in 2018 to tighten the legislation on quick loans with, among other things, interest ceilings and cost ceilings. That's when the worst of the scars disappeared. Unfortunately, these measures are not sufficient, but more must be done to protect the most vulnerable consumers. Those taking short-term loans are usually families and people with weak finances and lower repayment capacity, which can ultimately lead to a fall in debt and risk falling into over-indebtedness. In 2016, a LO report, Long-term over-indebtedness – The forgotten inequality, which shows that over-indebtedness is a clear class issue. Low-income, single, low- and medium-skilled, unemployed, sick and rent-earners are over-represented among those with long-term over-indebtedness. Mr President, I would like to The cynical thing is that this business model often targets people with a weak economy by offering high-rate quick loans, loans that in the long run are at risk of being very expensive. It is not uncommon that those who have taken a quick loan have to take a new quick loan to graze the old and get stuck in a vicious circle. With the Swedish Enforcement Authority as a free guarantee for debt recovery to lenders, an environment for high risk-taking and poor credit testing is created. Companies run a small risk, society takes the cost and does the job. Then it is the individual and society that are most affected. People can be forced to live on the poverty line for years. Research shows that overindebted people are more likely to suffer from suicidal thoughts, depression, addiction, and premature death. This increases public spending with, among other things, increased health care costs. But above all, it's a human cost. Mr President, I would like to With today's technology, games and money are easily accessible. Casinos and loan companies in the mobile or in the computer are just one click away. It is a click that can be difficult to resist when exposed to the massive advertising that is on our radio, television and on the internet. For that matter, it is also found in, for example, the subway or busses on their way to work, school or friends. There are many examples of how online gambling was financed with the help of quick loans, many quick loans. For example, Swedish Radio reported last year about a person who played away millions. He could take 25 different loans without any company saying no. Within two hours, he could have new money. It's devastating. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Consumer Agency has reviewed the creditworthiness tests in some forty companies since 2012. In many cases, the lenders fail to make a proper assessment. Many loan companies currently charge interest rates of 29 percent to get around the new rules that were clubbed in 2018. Refund periods can then be extended as many times as possible, which increases the total cost to the customer. This is a major problem, according to the Swedish Consumer Agency. It is a major problem for society. Quick loans should be prohibited.
i-3X1uj2Z9ddrKtQTpjCyYXM	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the civil committee's report 14 Consumer law. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in its entirety and rejecting all reservations. We're all consumers. We all buy different kinds of clothes, and we like different kinds of movies. We just choose different things. On the other hand, navigating among advertising is difficult. Worst case scenario, you'll end up in debt. If you fall into debt, it will affect your everyday life, your future, your family. He that is in debt is not free. A decent society requires legislation that takes account of citizens' opportunities and ability to understand contractual provisions. It is therefore important that consumer protection is strong and also makes it easy to make informed and safe choices. Ultimately, it is a question of changing the balance of power. People shouldn't be fooled. Mr President, I would like to This is the first time I have been in the Parliament's pulpit. In everyday life, I work with people who have intellectual disabilities. I'm also a unionist in Kommunal. I have met many people who have been in financial trouble because of their disabilities. Many times you do not understand the consequence of signing a contract or saying yes to an exciting offer on the phone. Mr President, I would like to Strong consumer protection is about taking a stand on people's opportunities. By strengthening consumer rights together through legislation, we are also acting in solidarity with each other. Today, there are several places a consumer can turn to for support and information. We have, for example, municipal consumer guidance. It is a voluntary commitment in the municipalities, and today, unfortunately, it does not exist in all the municipalities. Since spring 2015, we have Hallå konsument. It is a nationwide information service operated by the Swedish Consumer Agency. Contact on both phone, website and e-mail ensures accessibility across the country. Where you live should not affect what support you receive. Mr President, I would like to I appreciate the debate on this important subject. I am pleased that many parties see the importance of a clear citizen's perspective on this issue. Taking a stand for each other is nice.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-123	Mr President, I would like to I note that the honourable Member spoke in his speech about, among other things, debt. In this report, the Swedish Democrats have a special opinion on the sale of lottery tickets by telephone. Following an announcement by the Civil Committee, the Government has set up an investigation to look at, among other things, the written requirement for telephone sales of lottery tickets. I find it remarkable that there are special exceptions today for the sale of lottery tickets and games by political parties in terms of both the requirement for writing and the sale of credit. The Social Democrats are today the only party selling lottery tickets. The party earns around 80 million annually on the sale of its A-lotts, which include the Kombilotteriet, the Dream Travel Lottery and various scratch cards. In 2016, lottery sales accounted for 90 per cent of SSU's income and as much as one third of Social Democrats' income. It can therefore be understood that the Social Democratic Government has chosen to have this exception to the written requirement for its lottery sales. You rarely bite the hand that feeds you. Unfortunately, the exception also applies to the sale of tickets on credit. Selling gambling and lottery tickets on credit is prohibited in Sweden to protect particularly vulnerable groups against indebtedness, as the honourable Member mentions in his speech. No other types of games are allowed to be sold on credit except lottery tickets sold by the Social Democrats. In 2017, it was discovered that 8 000 people were driven to the enforcement office for not paying their tickets, and in almost 2 000 cases this led to payment notes. Many of them were pensioners who were already in debt. In this connection, I would like to ask: how does Mr Sjöblom view the exceptions that the Social Democrats have when it comes to the sale of lottery tickets?
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-129	Mr President, I would like to Parliament has instructed the government to look at this issue. We therefore believe, as is the committee's position, that we should wait for this investigation into lottery tickets. We don't need to investigate the same thing twice. The question has been raised many times.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-130	Mr President, I would like to Maybe that's a little the non-answer I expected. As the honourable Member says, the investigation that the government has set up has been tasked with looking at whether a written requirement for telephone sales should apply to additional goods and services, such as lotteries. I'm going back to what's going on with credit. I absolutely understand that an investigation should be carried out. Nevertheless, I would like to hear a little about the social democrats' view of the exception it has as the only party. The fact is that the Social Democrats have a lot of revenue from this type of sales. A law that would put the Social Democrats on an equal footing with other market players would of course make it more difficult for the Social Democrats to make money in this way. This type of derogation allows for a rather dubious approach. The honourable Member mentioned earlier that no one should be attracted to offers and to say yes to an exciting offer on the phone. That's exactly what lotteries are about. I think it goes without saying that the laws that exist should also apply to political parties. Does Mr Sjöblom agree?
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-135	Mr President, I would like to I am still saying that the committee's position is that we should wait for the investigation that is under way and that we do not need to investigate the same thing twice.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-136	Mr President, I would like to In this speech, I would like to start by calling for reservation No 3. I am, of course, also behind all our reservations and motions, which are dealt with in the report in a simplistic way. For us Swedes, access to clean water is something we take for granted. We use it in the bathtub, when we shower and when we flush the toilet. In the vast majority of cases, the water can also be drunk. In these times, when we wash our hands several times a day, we probably use more water than normal. Then we should be glad that there is enough water in the warehouses, so that there will be water when we open the tap. In a social crisis that is currently under way, we need to point out that we need to have enough water. This is not just about canned food and toilet paper. So it is not only when it is dry summers that we need to think about the water, but we always need to do so. Dry summers we recognize when we have to let the lawns dry out for the drinking water to be sufficient. It is easy to forget after a rainy winter. Fortunately, our water storage facilities are currently full, but climate change will probably give us greater variations in the supply of water than we have seen so far. We will see more of both floods and water shortages. To overcome this, we in the Center Party want to use new technology. Among other things, we propose extending the use of the European standard on environmental requirements, eco-design, in order to promote the development and increase the use of low-fluid taps and toilets as well as shower accessories. We also propose that individual measurement of water consumption should be a requirement for new construction of homes. Mr President, I would like to With the right measures, water consumption in households can be reduced by up to 50%. With new technology, we can also make sure that the source, that is, the water itself, can become larger. With the help of technology, we can recreate groundwater through wetlands, gravel beds and ditches. Today, work is under way in Sweden's geological survey, the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences and Lund University of Technology with dams and artificial infiltration that we have reason to encourage. This may mean that we can collect stormwater in future, for example, to reuse it in households. In this way it becomes a win-win situation, because stormwater in town is often seen as a problem. In the Center Party's second and third reservation we develop aspects of stormwater and water and sewage. We all know that we are facing major investments in these networks. It is also an important infrastructure that is necessary for the development of rural communities and settlements. Reinvestment is needed here because it is not designed and dimensioned for modern needs and more settlements. Mr President, I would like to The rural area will be developed by, among other things, being able to build more beachfront and through regulatory simplifications in the Planning and Construction Act so that you can build a riding house or café adjacent to a farm. It is good and very important. But it must not be at the cost of leakage of nutrients in our lakes or of pharmaceutical residues in groundwater. Laws and rules must be respected, but they also need to be adapted to the developments that we want. The costs of water treatment are high for municipalities. It is not reasonable that they themselves should, for example, pay for the treatment of medicinal products when the pharmaceutical companies do not have to take action. We therefore propose that there should be producer responsibility in which the pharmaceutical industry pays for the necessary measures, just as the packaging industry does with regard to the collection of packaging by municipalities. In the long term, we could then have cleaner, but equally effective, medicines and even cleaner water. It is an art, Mr President, to have enough money for future maintenance in the treatment plants. There is a limit to how much property owners are prepared to pay, and municipalities are not allowed to fund funds for future maintenance. This is important, and it needs to be reviewed in order for it to become a sustainable economy. Why not allow external and long-term investors, who want to, to co-finance expansion and to share in the returns that come when the systems are expanded and the fees come in? The municipal outline plans are an important document in the planning of municipalities. They should also focus on stormwater collection. Allowing stormwater reservoirs on your own property could provide preparedness when there is ever more frequent 100 years of rain and in between long dry periods. It should also be an opportunity. The Christian Democrats reserve for a twelve-hour supply guarantee for water, while we focus on the basic problems of varying water availability. To demand a guarantee of delivery without changing the shortcomings that exist in the legislation, and when we have climate change, do not think we are really the right way to go. It's a little bit to put the municipalities on the edge of the pot. Drinking water is one of our most critical supply systems and a prerequisite for society to function. As long as the government and parliament do not address water issues, the situation that has arisen with drought and water scarcity can hit even harder and become a social danger, like what we are experiencing today. We need modern water and sewage legislation in order to have a sustainable and climate-smart community building both in growth municipalities and in rural areas. There we then allow the municipality to work in a slightly different way, so that we get a better source of water.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-153	Mr President, I would like to The water is our most important food and perhaps what we take most for granted: We take for granted that there is when we turn the tap. We take for granted that the water is of good quality and that the amount of water we need is available. At the same time, the Swedish water and sewage network is very old and needs to be renovated. Perhaps that should now call for concern about future deliveries. A functioning sewage system is fundamental to our health and environment. Its task is to remove and clean waste water in an efficient, environmental and hygienic way. At the same time, the system as a whole will deliver clean and good water that is ready to use. In Sweden, we have over 1 700 wastewater treatment plants and a total of 101 000 kilometres of sewage pipes, which is equivalent to two and a half revolutions around the equator. Today, 12 billion annually is invested in Sweden. A report that has tried to analyse the needs in an overall way has found that the investment needs are significantly higher than the 12 billion. From a technical point of view, the required investment needs correspond to approximately SEK 22 billion in the current year. But the need for investment has not been met for many years, which means that we have a huge investment debt to make up for. What happens if we don't, I don't want to think about. For 2017, the estimated renewal cost was about SEK 20 000 per kilometre, so the debt will be quite extensive if we imagine that we have a total of over 100 000 kilometres in Sweden. There are also huge regional differences in the way investments are located in va, which tells me that some kind of national collection or governance is needed when it comes to managing this vital resource. It has also become clear that some municipalities have no plans for how to make up for the investment debt. One might think about why, but one might imagine that they do not currently know how to finance this, or they do not have the necessary political decision-making power. The Center Party said in the pulpit that we put the municipalities on the edge of the pot. Well, if you don't do your job, maybe you should sit there. Are there good examples in the dark picture that I am somehow painting? Yes, there is. There are municipalities that have taken this seriously, which have made plans, managed the situation and worked their way in, which is great. They should be used as a good example and as a knowledge bank in the work ahead. I believe that those of us who are elected at national or municipal level are not aware of how bad it is. I am aware that the municipalities have this responsibility, but I believe that they must be supported at national level. A national supply guarantee is needed to draw local authorities' attention to the importance of a long-term perspective on the water network. For the electricity grid, there is a supply guarantee that gives the customer the right to compensation in the event of a power failure lasting at least 12 hours. I believe that the same principle should work with regard to water supply and that we should therefore introduce a national supply guarantee. A supply guarantee would increase the focus and pressure on municipalities to meet the needs of their inhabitants and to carry out the necessary investments. Because there is no alternative. What, then, has the committee responded to this motion that we Christian Democrats have put forward? It refers to an investigation into sustainable water services, and the Government has announced that it will submit a proposal to the Riksdag in this area during the current Parliamentary Session. Yesterday, the government was able to put new proposals to Parliament, and I understand that no proposal has been made. Then my question is: if you do not have it, should you not be able to support the proposal? After all, the committee's position is based on wrong assumptions and grounds for a proposal to come. I request the approval of reservation 4.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-164	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in its report 2019/ 20:CU15 on land and water management. Most of the motions have been dealt with earlier during the term of office and have been handled according to so-called simplified preparation. The motions we are dealing with today traditionally all revolve around the necessary water for life, as we know it. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden we have better conditions than most countries in the world, partly for purely geographical, geological and natural resource reasons, partly because we have a strong society, a well-functioning democracy and an efficient public administration with very low incidence of corruption. The Swedish welfare model is strong in international comparison. A worrying development in recent years is about low groundwater levels. Tackling low groundwater levels is not something we can influence in the short term through effective bureaucracy or political decisions. There we are, as it were, at the mercy of Mother Nature. Nevertheless, there is much we can do within the framework of public administration and political decisions to deal with the effects of declining groundwater resources. This includes urban planning, climate adaptation, municipal and individual water supply, construction and housing, agriculture and forestry, etc. – not to mention research. However, in recent years we have seen historically low groundwater levels, and it is clear to many that we cannot take the water for granted. The government's investment in groundwater has given us as a nation a better knowledge base to make decisions based on when our drinking water supply will be climate-friendly, companies established or expanded and people's and companies' opportunities to operate in rural areas will be secured. However, for the value of the initiative to continue beyond 2020, the results must be managed, and we see that further development of the initiative may generate great societal values. Mr President, I would like to We therefore share the motionaries' description of drinking water as the most critical prerequisite for the functioning of society, and as the committee's report describes, Sweden's geological study has an ongoing mission to report on the efforts made to refine and extend the mapping and characterisation of groundwater resources in particularly vulnerable areas. Boverket has also recently analysed and made suggestions on issues relevant to the exercise demands. All in all, this means that the committee sees no reason to anticipate the ongoing work through an initiative from the Riksdag. The exercise requests should therefore be rejected. As far as the exercise on water activities is concerned, we were already part of that discussion during last year's debate on soil and water use. As we said back then, we believe that the issue of old water rules is met by the amendments to the environmental code introduced on 1 January 2019. A first follow-up is to take place shortly, and therefore we find no reason to anticipate the forthcoming analysis. In the case of water activities such as dams and other water facilities whose purpose is to exclude water or a mixture of water and other materials, they are subject to the applicable licensing rules. We believe that there has been no overriding reason to review the legislation in order to allow for additional dams. The third area to which we refer in this report concerns water, sewage and water management. Here we have two motions that highlight extremely important problems that relate to the conditions to cope with future investments and necessary reinvestments in and climate adaptation of the va-infrastructure. We also have questions about ownership and cultural environmental considerations, as well as a exercise about delivery guarantee. To introduce, as the Christian Democrats propose, a supply guarantee for water corresponding to the interruption compensation provided for in the Electricity Act is currently highly doubtful. At least we see no reason now to take any action in this direction. In conclusion, without going further into the various proposals, I would like to say that the government has actually announced a proposal in September with proposals in this area. We therefore look forward to returning in a debate based on follow-up movements on that bill in the autumn. Mr President, I would like to Once again, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-181	Mr President, I would like to The Home Guard currently comprises approximately 21 000 people and is an important resource for both the Swedish Armed Forces and the civilian authorities in connection with a crisis and/or an armed attack on Sweden. The Home Guard and the other voluntary defence organisations all have different competences and directions, but their common foundation is a commitment to strengthening society's crisis preparedness capabilities and defending our interests. The strength of the Home Guard is speed, popular anchoring and local knowledge. The efforts of the Home Guard in recent years have been crucial, among other things, in connection with the many and large forest fires that have raged in Sweden. But even in the crisis that we are now in the midst of, the Home Guard has been helpful. I am thinking, for example, of the Home Guard in Östergötland who travelled medical tents outside the emergency departments in order to reduce unnecessary risk of infection when assessing respiratory symptoms. Several examples can be found around Sweden. Mr President, I would like to In short, Sweden would be much less equipped without the Home Guard and the other voluntary defence organisations, or to put it another way: A stronger Home Guard makes all of Sweden stronger. Mr President, I would like to In its latest report Värnkraft, the defense committee is clear that the organisation of the Home Guard should be expanded. The objective in a first step should be a war organization of at least 25 000 Home Guard soldiers. The preparation also points to the important role of the Home Guard in peacetime crisis preparedness and the possibility of complementing the voluntary commitment of the whole Home Guard unit in major crises. We Moderates would like to see the Home Guard's number in the long term to reach 30 000 people. In addition, we want to make the Home Guard a defence branch of our own alongside the army, the Navy and the Air Force. We also want to provide the Home Guard with better equipment for increased anti-aircraft capabilities and for them to be able to operate in darkness and more. To achieve this, money is needed, but support is also needed for recruitment to the Home Guard. The Defence Committee's report Värnkraft addresses several issues that may have an impact on recruitment to the Home Guard, including the disappearance of four-month training, the need for more soldiers to be trained and more places to train soldiers. The proposals are good, but at the moment, however, there are no decisions to implement this, and when such decisions exist, it will still take time. We therefore also need to change in the short term the possibilities of improving recruitment to the Home Guard. A large part of the recruitment to the Home Guard is still about the recruitment of former conscripts. It is important, and that is why it should continue. Recruitment also needs to be intensified through, among other things, additional audiences and outreach activities. A review of Home Guard benefits should be carried out with a view to finding levels and incentives for wider recruitment. A third measure to increase the number of Home Guard soldiers is to increase the number of conscripts for short-term training while waiting for the training of so-called territorial units to be launched to a greater extent. We can do that next year. There are several good proposals to strengthen the Home Guard, and I very much hope that the government parties in their speeches will address how they view the important role of the Home Guard and how it should be exploited and developed. Mr President, I would like to The scope of the Swedish Armed Forces' exercise activities has varied greatly over the years. It has been from a period of rearmament after the Second World War with many and great exercises until the fall of the Iron Curtain and Communism with a strong disarmament trend that led to far fewer and less exercises. Today, when the security situation in our immediate area deteriorates and we strengthen our defence capabilities, the Armed Forces will need to practice more and in larger exercises. These are exercises that will affect us in different ways. Mr President, I would like to Since the early 1990s, both the Environmental Code and the Plan and the Construction Act have changed on a number of crucial points, for example when it comes to disruptive activities. This has meant that it has become increasingly difficult to build in environments that are exposed to noise, for example. Activities such as the Swedish Armed Forces have therefore become more restrictive when it comes to supporting new constructions of various kinds in their immediate vicinity. Several of our garrison varieties are located in growth municipalities where housing needs to be built, and it is also not uncommon that the Armed Forces' training and shooting fields today are very close to growing population centers. When it comes to the Swedish Armed Forces' shooting field, the Swedish Armed Forces, supported by the Environmental Code, have become more restrictive and have clearly announced what so-called influence areas they consider to have in connection with their training and shooting fields. These areas can become large and prevent attractive and necessary residential areas from becoming a reality. An influence area can be described as an area affected by the environmental impact of military activities. An influence area is an area in which measures such as new residential buildings may be affected by, or in turn affect, the activities within the area. There is a problem here, Mr President, when applying the environmental code to noise. The principle is that the activities of complaints must reduce their noise. At best, it means restrictions on activity, and at worst, it may have to stop. If the Swedish Armed Forces allow new construction within an influence area at a shooting field and the new arrivals experience the activity as disturbing, of course, the risk of the shooting field having to be closed. One way to meet both the Swedish Armed Forces' need for training and shooting fields and the municipalities' need for new land is to make the environmental code's noise regulations dispositive for the Swedish Armed Forces together with the waitout. The problem today is that the environmental code does not allow this. A move is therefore necessary, and we must get back to a situation where we see the defence of our country as a natural part of our everyday lives. This means that we must accept that it sounds when the Swedish Armed Forces practice. Mr President, I would like to It is possible to make use of the existing legislation, but only within the levels of the environmental code. In other words, it is still the limit values set by the environmental code that apply regardless of what has been agreed in a service. Reasonably, the Swedish Armed Forces' needs should be ahead of the environmental code if the residents have signed a service, that is, are aware of and accept the noise. Therefore, the Moderates believe that the possibility should be introduced to make the environmental code's noise regulations dispositive to the Swedish Armed Forces in connection with the drawing of the suite. In this way, we could secure both the Swedish Armed Forces' opportunities to practice and our municipalities' opportunities to build housing. If we are serious about building a strong defence, we must do so together with municipalities, regions and citizens. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to highlight the possibility of amending the legislation so that the Swedish Armed Forces, pending final notification on environmental testing, will have the opportunity to carry out the exercise activities on an interim basis. This is based on the deteriorating security situation, the increasing needs of a growing war organisation and the long lead times for processing the application for an environmental permit. On this issue too, I hope to receive a comment in a speech from one of the members of the government parties. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 4.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-203	Mr President, I would like to The defense committee is also called up, and it is sometimes physical training. But it doesn't hurt in these times. In any case, the pulse will slow down a little bit in a while. I will, of course, comment on our defence issues, but I cannot help but start by commenting on the current situation with the Corona virus. The question is not really one of the subjects, but after all. We will discuss the issue in future debates when, among other things, we are going to go through crisis preparedness, but I think that criticism – and criticism is being levelled in the newspapers – can be levelled at various authorities. The major problem, Mr President, is a complete lack of thoughtfulness and scenario planning. Why don't you play different scenarios? Game leaders to run different scenarios can very well be retrieved from the Swedish Armed Forces' very good officers. Anyone who is amused by watching video broadcasts can see that we have been talking in this House several years ago about both war and pandemics. For example, we did that four years ago. Then we can take the steps that a game of a scenario can produce: What do we do? Then there is a decision-making process, of course linked to the economy. But we have not taken action. Therefore, criticism should primarily be directed at those responsible politicians who fail to act and ignore the scenario game. Therefore, there is no possibility of managing the business. I will come back to these issues when we talk about emergency preparedness, but I felt the need to mention these issues. There's the big problem. Mr President, I would like to The defense committee has now been called back. I think that the Minister for Defence has done an excellent job so far. All parties participate, and the key members of the secretariat are present. We had a meeting yesterday, and we've had a meeting until now. The meeting is adjourned and resumed later during the day. That's very good work so far by the Secretary of Defense. He has been sensitive to the wishes we have had. We have also agreed that during the journey until mid-May, we will not go out openly and talk about all our discussions and what we do. The Swedish democrats have promised to do so. But I can say so much that we are talking about a budget. The Minister of Defence himself has mentioned, and the rest of us are now mentioning, 91.6 billion – i.e. price-compensated for the previous decision of 84 billion. I will now leave the civilians behind, but I will come back to them later, Mr President. Having said that, we are now starting the work, and it is important to look at how and in what way the parts of the Armed Forces differ. Yes, you lack money — 55 - 60 billion. The open accounting should bear in mind that the Swedish Armed Forces have not calculated any price compensation in the 55-60 billions. It should be pointed out separately that, provided that there is no price compensation, there is no such amount of money. This price compensation runs as a short even from 2025 to 2030. What, then, is the orientation of our party before these actions begin or go to the finish? We have a long-term goal, Mr President, that the Swedish Armed Forces should have 2 per cent of GDP in 2030. That is not news; we have been saying this for many years, and I think there is a broad majority to go up to 2%. What are the consequences? Well, no matter what we come up with in the Defense Committee, we end up in a decision. Should we add more money? What we want the Swedish Armed Forces to aim for is Värnkraft, the Swedish Defence Committee's report. That's the target. What means are needed to achieve this objective? There we have the economy as a very important point. Then you give long-term perspective to the Swedish Armed Forces: You have an estimated 2 per cent of GDP in 2030. Set a timetable to implement or reach the target – intermediate targets and targets! That is how the Swedish Democrats work, Mr President. This means continuously reporting how it is going to reach the goal of defence force. Corresponding targets on the civilian side are resilience, but we will leave that for the next debate. So we want to make this policy more practical. Then it will be long-term. Then we will deal with the other issues with interim targets. There will be changes. The Swedish Armed Forces may think that the decisions the politicians make are not quite right – what if we had to do this instead! There will always be flexibility in this, Mr President. In this way, I think we will have better order and consistency in the construction of military defence. We have mentioned in this the establishment of units, but I am going to skip that in view of the agreement we have made. I'll take it out. On the other hand, I am very concerned about the signals that come about that you do not intend to train in Härnösand. You're not going to go on with military training. It's a very important part of recruiting for the Home Guard. Why is this being done? I am not saying that that is true; I am simply saying that I have been given that view of leading politicians up there. It worries me, and I will come back to it. I was going to go into something that concerns the Armed Forces, and it is now important to get a civilian commander-in-chief – we have also been exercising it over for years – and to link it and the various civilian officers to the National Board of Civil Preparedness, who will lead and coordinate and ensure that the civilian regions are jacketed together with the military as much as possible by giving planning responsibilities to, among others, the governors. I believe that this is an important part of a total defence that significantly affects the capabilities and strength of the defence and Sweden's preparedness.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-217	Mr President, I would like to It is not without our being in a very different time with this Corona crisis. A pandemic that passes across the world really marks the way we are reacting right now, and it's hard to talk about anything else. But here we have a subject, the structure of military defence, which is actually closely linked to what the Corona crisis is teaching us now, namely what a vulnerable society we have. I especially care for my parents right now, and I know that others have just such values. But that does not prevent us from changing a few words about what we see is linked to defence ability. For me, one thing becomes clear. The war that may come is a hybrid war. It is not very difficult to imagine that a foreign power releases a virus like corona that you have prepared and created a vaccine against, but you do not release the vaccine. This is combined with a threat of war that leads to closed transport routes. We have learned during this crisis that China is the factory in the world, so closed transport routes would make us vulnerable. If you imagine a little sabotage of the power supply that also closes the communication routes, you will understand that a coming war is not really decided on the battlefield, but it is decided on completely different playing fields. Mr President, I would like to Today's debate on military issues is topical, but it is a rather strange situation that we find ourselves in. There has been a lack of synchronisation between the Swedish Armed Forces, the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Committee. When, after three years of work, the Swedish Armed Forces submitted a very well-prepared report, Värnkraft, the Swedish Armed Forces said that there was a difference of 60 billion. This makes it difficult to handle this – difficult for everyone, in fact. But now we're gonna make the best of it and get to the finish line. I was going to present the Centre Party's ten starting points in the negotiations that started yesterday and today to show how we think. The first point of departure for us is that we see that the deteriorating world situation means that we need to increase our defence capabilities. It is important to establish this here and now. The combination of hybrid warfare, grey zone problems and military technological development makes the threat real, for example in the Baltic Sea region. We need a better defense today to withstand an armed attack. The second point of departure for the Center Party is that we want to implement the whole of Värnkraft. That's our beacon. Why? Well, that's a good proposal, a good whole. Everyone is all behind it, and it's actually pre-negotiated. It's worth a lot after three years of work. The third point of departure is that we are demanding the maximum amount of money we have spent on these efforts. The Center Party has been the leader in negotiating the major additions of resources to military defence. This means that we also want to get the most out of them. The fourth point of departure is that we see that we need a total defence decision this autumn. We really need it. We need to look at the whole picture. We understand in these Corona times that a military defence without a civil defence is not worth much. We have such major shortcomings in civil defence that we really need a single decision if we are to bring up the country's total defence capabilities. The fifth starting point is the result of what I said earlier. We need to get money in the budget for civil defence. Something else doesn't exist. Otherwise, it won't be credible. We need to get money for the civil defense. Lessons from the Corona make us see how vulnerable we are, for example, in terms of the supply of medicines and food, which today is based entirely on transport in. The sixth point of departure is that we want a broad agreement, as broad as we can, between the parties. This, of course, presupposes that we have serious parties who want to take part in a settlement and put the best interests of the country before the best interests of their party. Unfortunately, we have seen tendencies to the contrary in other matters. Future defence issues require that the parties really want to be involved. Why do we want a broad agreement? Well, we understand that building military capabilities takes a very long time. In practice, we're talking fifteen years ahead. The decision that is now to be sewn together probably spans ten years but will have a very clear impact on the next fifteen years. Fifteen years translated into politics are four periods of government. In four periods of government, it is very likely that we will change the government several times, and we must therefore have a broad decision if this is to work and be stable in the future. The seventh point of departure is that we want a whole-country perspective. We need to develop the Home Guard; Jörgen Berglund has touched on this, and I support much of what he said. It is for the Home Guard's part that it is a matter of managing personnel and equipment supply. In order to achieve this, we need to get up to 8 000 conscripts quite quickly. And in order to succeed, the Recruitment Authority needs to have a third recruitment office for on-the-spot signing right away. Otherwise, it won't be possible. The whole-country perspective is also about that we need to take altitude to cope with different climate scenarios. I am thinking not least of the fact that different parts of the country need to have a clear subarctic ability. The entire Committee on Defence was not so long ago in Norway and taught us very well what the Norwegians are good at. We need to build on and build together Norway, Sweden and Finland in terms of subarctic capabilities. Getting a whole-country perspective is also good for people's support and will, among other things, facilitate staff supply. The eighth priority of the Center Party is about the ground fighting forces. It is now time to give priority to the army, as the Defense Committee has said. It is about unit and training structure. The army has been standing back for a long time, and we need a better balance to cope with our overall defence capabilities in the future. This means, among other things, that we need to get more new regiments in more places in the country. The ninth point of departure is that we need to find some sort of balance between large purchases of equipment and human resources. We cannot spend all the money in the bag on large purchases of equipment, which we have actually been doing for a long time. We are incredibly heavy material compared to other countries. We must also understand that, in practice, without staff, we have no defence. The human resources issue must therefore be given greater focus. It is about becoming attractive employers and getting on reasonable terms. We also believe that, as part of increasing the attractiveness of defence, we should raise the target of the proportion of women. The final point is that we see that we must have a defence that is a better integrated part of society, that is, that we enable coexistence on, for example, the issue of wind power. Today, the Swedish Armed Forces block 45 per cent of Sweden's surface area and put a stop to wind power there – that is not reasonable. Like Jörgen Berglund, we believe that we must have new legislation that allows for coexistence of defence facilities and training areas in a different way from today. Mr President, I would like to We in the Center Party will be very active in this negotiation, and we will take our responsibility so that we get a total defence decision this autumn. With this, I would like to endorse Amendment No 12.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-238	Mr President, I would like to Hello to all of you who are listening at home! We all hope from here that you take good care of yourselves and don't forget to wash your hands often. We live in a more vulnerable world; I think it is obvious to all of us in these times. It is a world that can be frightening but which we have great opportunities to influence for the better and to make both calmer and more peaceful. In recent years, however, we have received more and more evidence that the world is not as calm as we would like. Today, we are debating a large number of motions under the very broad heading I would have preferred this block to have been called, for example, a defence of climate and environmental issues, because that is exactly where I want to focus in this debate. I would like to say right now that I am in favour of the Left Party's Amendment No 7. Last year, the Left Party presented a motion called the Swedish Armed Forces, the climate and the environment – a broad and very good exercise that addresses many different environmental issues related to defence activities. This year we are running on the same theme, but this time our environmental and climate movement is specifically about Vättern, a lake that requires much more of our attention and our ability to act. Environmental issues and climate change are the major destiny of our time. There can be no one, either here in Parliament or among you who listens at home, who does not understand that we are facing major challenges with the climate changes we see and that we humans have done and still do great damage to our environment. All people and society as a whole must take responsibility for a more sustainable transition. This also applies to all authorities, who will do their bit to prevent climate change, and this also applies to the Swedish Armed Forces. Climate change and natural disasters are a serious threat to the security of both the country and its inhabitants. We have seen many examples of fires, floods and droughts in recent years, and we know that this will happen more in the future. Around the world, we see that natural disasters and climate change are one of the root causes of war and conflict. Tackling climate change is therefore working towards a more peaceful and safer world. Mr President, I would like to The liquid is the drinking water supply for 280 000 people, a number that will probably increase in the future. It is a unique environment for both wildlife and vegetation and an appreciated tourist destination. But Vättern is also a large training field for the Swedish Armed Forces, which uses the area around, over and in Vättern for flying exercises. There are requests to fly and shoot even more. This of course has consequences for life at and around Vättern. Old ammunition remains on the bottom, and new ammunition is added to the lake every year. There is a great commitment of residents around Lake Vättern to limit flight exercises and save Lake Vättern's water. The Left Party therefore proposes the development of an action plan to reduce the pollution caused by the military exercises in and over Lake Vättern. We need to get to grips with the issue of cleaning up Vättern and ensuring that water quality is improved. There are more practice and shooting fields in Sweden that need to be cleaned up and cleaned up, and I know that this is an ongoing operation. But we need to intensify this, and Vättern is as a drinking water supply priority and most acute. We believe that the Swedish Armed Forces must be given good opportunities to practice, but we must also put environmental and climate issues at the top of the agenda. There is no other option if we are to stop the climate change that we are seeing today and not hand over a too destroyed environment to future generations.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-249	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating military issues, and I would like to take this opportunity to say straight away that I naturally support the reservations of all the Christian Democrats, but only in paragraph 1 for time-winning applications for reservation 3 only. Sweden has been outside war for 200 years. This is something amazing, and we very much hope that it will remain so. But it's not a law of nature. I was on a trip with the Defense Committee quite exactly a year ago. Among other things, we were in Ukraine, where we visited a military hospital. We went round there, you might say. For me, Mr President, it was very frightening to see. In one room we met a soldier who had got a good piece of his leg shot off and another who had stepped on a mine. So this is in Europe. It is a low-intensity war that has been going on for five years, yet ten people die a month. For me, it is important to realise that we need to strengthen our defence. We cannot take for granted that we should always be able to stay out of it, so it is important that the defence is strengthened. If we have a strong, functioning defence, the chances and chances are that we never have to use it. I'm part of the Defense Committee, and we've been working for almost three years. We have looked at what the threat to Sweden looks like, but also at what needs to be strengthened, both civilian and military. To mention something about civil defence, it is two sides of the same coin. Among other Dagens Nyheter has shown that 30 years ago we had perhaps the best civil defence in the world, and not least now during the ongoing Corona crisis we see that it would have been good to have it. Then we had the opportunity to receive wounded, and we had many ventilators that would have been good to have today. For the future, we want to impress: Don't repeat the mistakes! What happened was that eternal peace seemed to roll in, and so we dropped much of our defence, including civil defence. We must impress that this will not be done again. We must ensure that we have a country that can withstand beautiful weather but also bad weather, crises and, at worst, war. It is therefore important that the proposals put forward by the Committee on Defence in relation to resilience and civil defence are now implemented. The Christian Democrats have already budgeted over half a billion by 2025 for this to be implemented. Unfortunately, the proposals have so far ended up in the government's drawer and have not become a reality. Now is the time for us to get moving and implement them so that we can manage civil defence. Finland is a pioneer country here. Let me mention one thing: for example, they have the opportunity to cope with food supplies for six months. In Sweden, we may last a few weeks. This must now be reinforced. As far as military defence is concerned today, the Committee on Defence had a number of proposals. Initially, we said, among other things, that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. Sweden will inevitably be affected if an armed conflict occurs in our neighbourhood. Therefore, it is important to dimension and design a defence that can face an armed attack on Sweden, including acts of war on Swedish territory. This was agreed by all parties in the Defense Committee. In anticipation of support, Sweden must have the ability to cope with severe disturbances and defend itself on its own. We looked in the mirror and also said that the Swedish Armed Forces today have significant limitations in their ability to face an armed attack and that today's war organization is not fundamentally designed to face an armed attack. We said that we now need to see a reinforcement in logistics, management and other support functions that make the Armed Forces work at a war. We had proposals for expansions within the army, the air force and the Navy. What is also important is to ensure that there are more conscripts so that the units can be filled up. This is precisely what gives the military the ability: that units are filled up with the right equipment and practice. This is what has been missed historically – that you have saved up on exercises. This is unfortunate, because that is what creates military capability. When it comes to the army, we said it's important that we get three mechanized brigades. When it comes to the Navy, it is important to establish military capabilities also in Gothenburg. It is not rocket science to understand that in a conflict one will try to stop our imports of supplies coming in via Gothenburg, and therefore it is important to recreate military capabilities there. As far as the Air Force is concerned, it is important that we can expand our air base. This may allow for greater dissemination and protection. We have a good air force, but we have to make sure we get our side bases up and running so we don't get so vulnerable. That is what our negotiations are about. Our starting point is that the Defence Committee's proposal should be implemented and that we should ensure that funds are raised. We said in preparation that we would be anchored in the 2019 money value. It is an important thing that we should not really have to discuss, but it is a matter of course. We understand that a crown today will be significantly less worth in 2030. I hope that we can resolve this and that we can gradually increase our defence appropriations, just like the rest of the world. The world around us is at 2% or on its way there, and Sweden must now do the same. It is about creating security and strengthening both civilian and military defence. This is absolutely necessary.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-264	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating military issues, which deal with proposals made by Members in the form of motions during the general period of exercise. The topics and the proposals are of different kinds and are very different from each other but aim to strengthen our defence capabilities – our ability to defend Sweden. It is about access to training fields, the conditions for the Home Guard, how the Armed Forces should be organised and more. Mr President, I would like to While we are dealing with this matter, as we have heard earlier here in the debate, important discussions are taking place at the Ministry of Defence, where the Defence Committee is now preparing proposals for a new bill on the direction of defence policy. When we make decisions about Sweden's security, what the Swedish Armed Forces should look like and what should be a priority, it is extremely important that we do it together and that we do it jointly across the block borders. At the moment, we in Sweden, as well as other countries, are facing a huge challenge when it comes to managing the coronavirus and covid-19. Here we really see how important it is for us to come together and make the decisions needed to save lives and keep social functions and the economy going. Right now, we're really testing our emergency preparedness. There will certainly be many lessons for us as a committee to learn after this when it comes to the design of civil defence, but also lessons that are important for the direction of military defence. Mr President, I would like to I intend to be brief today, but I would still like to say a few words about the Home Guard. It is an issue that has been raised in several motions, and I can only agree that it has an important role to play. Everywhere and always are the words that describe the Home Guard in its entirety. The Home Guard is a major and important part of the army forces and, with its high availability, its numerary and geographical distribution, has a central importance and contributes in a valuable way both to certain guarding tasks and to support society. We Social Democrats take a positive view of the development of the Home Guard that the government has described in the budget bill's statement of results. The fact that the Home Guard has tested its preparedness through a contingency control – an exercise to an extent that has not been carried out since 1975 – is extremely positive and important. The Home Guard is incredibly important, and the local anchoring and recruitment of the Home Guard units is of great importance for the people's support of the defence and, of course, for increasing the willingness of the population to defend themselves. Without the Home Guard, it is difficult to cope with an armed attack against Sweden, as its mission is to protect, guard, monitor, disrupt and defend. I can only note that the parties in the Defence Committee's report Värnkraft have expressed in agreement the need for a great effort on the Home Guard. The goal is to increase in a first step to 25,000 Home Guard soldiers. The defense committee also points out in Värnkraft that the Home Guard also has an important role in peacetime crises and a need to be able to complement voluntary engagement. The importance of having a good ability to deal with even peacetime crises we are really seeing right now. We see how important the Home Guard is and can be. As I said at the outset, however, we Social Democrats do not want to anticipate the orientation proposal, but, as I said, believe that it is important that these issues are dealt with together as a whole in order to contribute to the greatest benefit for Swedish security. I therefore support the proposal in the report.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-276	Mr President, I would like to The rejection of the opposition's movements by government parties is not unique – nor is it this time. But even if we have a defence committee that fortunately works again to write us together, surely the largest party in the parliament, the Social Democrats, which Alexandra Völker represents, must have an idea of how to deal with recruitments to the Home Guard and increase them. I raised a number of Moderate ideas and thoughts in my speech. I wonder, for example, how the Social Democrats view the review of compensation for Home Guards. Is there anything else that the Social Democrats still stand for? Is it reasonable, for example, in the long term to make the Home Guard a defence branch of our own, as we think? It would be interesting to hear, even though the Defense Committee is working.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-278	Mr President, I would like to These are important questions that Jörgen Berglund is asking. However, I would like to start by saying that my colleague, Paula Holmqvist, was supposed to take this debate, and I have jumped into the debate a little bit at the last minute. If I cannot answer all the questions, I want to make it clear that this is the reason for it. Of course the Home Guard is very important. We think it is incredibly important that we get more of us to become Home Guard soldiers – that you increase the interest in general but also that you get more to attend the training. It is also important for the Home Guard to have the resources and materials they need, i.e. the base plate that they need. The proposals made in Värnkraft and the proposals made by the former defence committee are incredibly important. However, I do not want to anticipate the discussion, but I think it is important that these things are dealt with in a single format. As we discussed a few weeks ago, when it comes to recruitment to the Swedish Armed Forces in general, this is a challenge for the entire Swedish Armed Forces and not just for the Home Guard. I therefore find it unfortunate if I stand and talk about efforts for specifically the Home Guard. I think there is a need to review the personnel supply for the entire Armed Forces.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-282	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I share Alexandra Völker's view that the supply of personnel is important for the entire Swedish Armed Forces. Now this was a little specific about the Home Guard. But, of course, I respect what she says. You don't have to show the cards if you don't want to. However, I think it might be appropriate in this context to highlight the positions they have. Mr President, I would like to I also raised a few other points in my speech concerning the Armed Forces' exercise activities. I would like to hear from Alexandra Völker what the Social Democrats think can be done to reduce the conflict that apparently exists in many places around Sweden now, where the Armed Forces' interests of practice and shooting fields are on one side and the municipalities' need to develop and build new housing is on the other side. Many times these interests clash. I highlighted some suggestions for changes, such as waiters that can be signed. But I also pointed out that the Swedish Armed Forces, pending the entry into force of the environmental permits, could practice. It would be interesting to hear Alexandra Völker's comment on this.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-284	Mr President, I would like to Of course it's incredibly important to be able to practice. It has also been a priority for the government both during this term of office and during the previous term of office. At first, the staff part has been a very important part, that is to ensure that you can practice with full units. Right now there are many exercises going on around the country, and they are ongoing. This is important because that is how we strengthen our defence capabilities. When it comes to practice fields, it is always a very difficult part, because we have to ensure that there are practice fields. But then we also have challenges in that we have to take care of our nature and see what consequences this can have for the country as a whole. We heard earlier that the Left Party was talking about, for example, Vättern. It is clear, then, that we must constantly balance these two issues with each other. Both are incredibly important. These are not simple questions, but we need to look at them. But right now the Swedish Armed Forces still have many training fields to use. And we have the privilege in Sweden that we have such large exercise areas in relation to other countries. But it is clear that we must ensure that the Armed Forces have the best possible conditions, while protecting both the environment and the population.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-286	Mr President, I would like to During this debate, I intended to mention one of the important resources of the defence system, and therefore one of society. There has been much talk about it today. It is an organisation that is very topical and is constantly prepared to support society, namely the Home Guard. Today, the Home Guard is made up of about 22,000 women and men, and they are scattered throughout our elongated country. These people are voluntary members of the Home Guard. The Home Guard thus accounts for almost half of the Armed Forces' staff, and these people live near their station. The Home Guard has the task of operating all over the conflict scale – everything from support to society in the event of great pressures in peace to armed combat in war. Home Guard units are war units with the main task of protecting, guarding, surface monitoring and supporting society in the event of a crisis. And that's the crisis part that I'm going to focus a little extra on right now. If Sweden suffers from natural disasters, major accidents or other threats to society, the Home Guard with the national security forces is prepared to support the police, civil protection and other authorities. It may be in the case of forest fires, floods, missing persons or, for that matter, pandemics. Every year, the Home Guard carries out a large number of such activities as support for society, and they do so well. Only during the fires in 2018, there were a total of 24,400 hours of service. However, it is important to point out that the primary task of the Home Guard is not to solve the tasks of other authorities. But when extraordinary events occur, the Home Guard is a large resource that is available in less than 24 hours and can flexibly solve many different tasks. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is in what can develop into one of the worst crises of our time. All over the world and also here in Sweden, the corona virus has spread in recent weeks. Many people have been infected and become ill in covid-19, some of whom have become so seriously ill that they have died. It is in difficult and demanding situations that the Home Guard can be used and thus make a big difference and a huge social benefit. The strength of the Home Guard is its geographical spread and many different skills. The Home Guard also has a large number of vehicles and can reach people in need of support, even if it is difficult to access terrain or an island in the archipelago. Home Guards can also support society with, among other things, transportation of materials, water, food and personnel. Mr President, I would like to In summary, the Home Guard's staff have deep knowledge, commitment and geographical spread. There is also a short suspension period. These are characteristics that give a good opportunity to provide comprehensive support to civil society. In this difficult time for our country, the Home Guard is everywhere, always. We Swedish democrats are also exercising in this report, FÖU9, that we want to see an extension of the Home Guard and a modernisation of the equipment and vehicles at the disposal of the Home Guard. Finally, I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 5.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-297	Mr President, I would like to Now the pulse is down to normal 100 beats, so I guess it should go a little better. Speaking of this with a defence branch of our own, we have considered this for quite some time. We also want to take it in when the Home Secretary considers it appropriate, as I know the honourable Member knows. However, I would like to express my concern. We have talked about the establishment of units. Now I refer to Värnkraft, where it says that we will re-establish a unit in Central Sweden. A number of localities were present, including Sollefteå and Härnösand. Härnösand is now flying the flag to close the university of applied sciences for maritime education. It is very worrying that one is prepared to take such steps when we still have not decided where the re-establishment will take place. If important parts of this are removed, it hardly increases the chances of getting additional units there. I say this as a contribution, and that is the view of the Swedish democrats. I would also like to raise the issue of environmental status. It is quite unreasonable, Mr President, that one should have to wait more than ten years for environmental permits. It is still not finished on Gotland. We have to do something about this. I know there is an investigation on the part of the government that is reviewing this, but I think that we should somehow speed up this and make proposals. If you order activities to a place, the activities that it is intended should of course be carried out. An analysis shall be made when the permit is given – or begins before then – so that it is clear when the order will establish. We should also look at the noise zones; I will come back to that in the next speech.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-304	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Left Party's reservation 33. After the situation with the spread of covid-19 that we are currently in the midst of, many wise conclusions will surely be drawn about our society. We are currently discussing the Transport Committee's report TU7 on infrastructure issues. One conclusion that we can probably draw right now is that the functioning of infrastructure and transport is absolutely fundamental in our modern society. But we also need to ask ourselves questions about our dependence on transport and ask ourselves whether this dependence may have gone a little too far. Today we have a freight transport system built around the principle of just in time. There are no more warehouses, except on our highways. Everything should be delivered as close to the moment of consumption as possible. Transport costs very little, so we can afford to have these rolling stocks on our motorways. Today we see that the price for this is very high. We in the Left Party have previously criticised precisely the in-time ideology for reducing the conditions for employees in commercial traffic and leading to unnecessarily large greenhouse gas emissions. Now we also see that our vulnerability is increasing. There are no longer any stocks of medicines, protective equipment, food and other supplies, leading to empty shelves. Anyone who's tried to buy a breathing mask or hand spirit knows what I'm talking about. I think we should have that perspective with us when we discuss what infrastructure we want in our country. Perhaps this crisis will be the end of just in time and super-cheap transport. That's good. Let us plan for a transport system that is more socially efficient and fully integrates the impact of transport on the environment and the climate. We spend tens of billions of SEK annually – in the national plan in twelve years it is 700 billion SEK – on the expansion and renovation of mainly roads and railways. These investments are incredibly important, and the money can be spent better than is provided for in the current infrastructure plan. We in the Left Party fully agree with the sharp criticism by the Climate Policy Council of the government's infrastructure policy, now repeated in the review report that the Council has made on the Government's climate action plan. The government is not based on our climate targets for reducing emissions – for the transport sector the target is minus 70% by 2030 – but on forecasts of increased road traffic. This is, of course, backwards, and it is one of the reasons why emissions from the transport sector are not reduced to the extent that they should. Building up road capacity will also increase road traffic and emissions. That is why we in the Left Party want the government to revise the national infrastructure plan so that it is clearly based on the climate objective of reducing emissions from the transport sector. It would be a plan where much more money would be spent on the railways and the development of bicycle infrastructure. Regarding cycling: Is it not distressing that we have a government that beats its chest with its bicycle strategy when less than SEK 2 billion of the 700 billion in national planes are dedicated to the expansion of bicycle infrastructure? The only two named bicycle infrastructure objects were eventually deleted by the government when the infrastructure plan was developed. Mr President, I would like to With an infrastructure plan based on the climate, road projects such as Tvärtändning Södertörn should be an impossibility. Cross-connection Södertörn will be built here in the Stockholm region, a few miles south of where we are now. It will cost at least SEK 11 billion and lead to increased car traffic and increased emissions. This is why, for example, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and a collective environmental movement dismisses the construction. I am a little surprised that it is only we in the Left Party who clearly say no to Interconnection Södertörn among the political parties. Why are you putting in the Green Party and the Center Party, which want to call you green parties, the billion dollar roll to motorism? Speaking of infrastructure expansion, I am frustrated that there is always so much talk about building new ones and building capacity, but less about managing what we already have. In infrastructure planning we have an important tool known as the four-step principle. This principle was launched by the Swedish Road Administration in the late 1990s. The four-step principle is actively used by Trafikverket and means that changes in the traffic system must be examined gradually with the aim of achieving a more sustainable transport system. As the name indicates, the four-step principle consists of four parts. Steps 1 and 2 are about taking other measures instead of expanding new capacities. It can be about changing people's behaviour by promoting more collective travel, walking and cycling. Charges, taxes, information, speed limits and IT solutions are other examples of steps 1 and 2 in the four-step principle. The other two parts, steps 3 and 4, are about rebuilding or building entirely new ones, i.e. increasing capacity. These steps should only be used when steps 1 and 2 are exhausted, it is intended. However, as both the Climate Policy Council and the Swedish National Audit Office have stated, there is a one-sided focus on steps 3 and 4 with the Government and the Swedish Transport Administration. Regrettably, applying efforts for reduced or different travel is down-priority by the Swedish Transport Administration and the Government. One of the reasons for this is that the Finnish Transport Administration considers that they have no mandate to finance Stage 1 measures. That's totally untenable. The government therefore needs to make it clear to the Swedish Transport Administration that they will work more actively with the first step in the four-step principle, which is about solving deficiencies through reduced demand or transfers between modes. The government must also ensure that there is a possibility of state co-financing for stage 1 and stage 2 measures in the county plans and in the national infrastructure plan. I therefore support Amendment No 33, which deals with this very subject. Madam President, I would like If there is something we can learn from the crisis that we are currently in, it is not to rely on an abundance of cheap transport. There is always someone else who pays the price of transport: the professional driver with bad conditions or our environment with increased vulnerability. It is therefore high time to build a sustainable transport system, and that is something that we can do together. The solutions are spelled more public transport, rail, shipping, walking and cycling, less new motorways and airports, more smart transport solutions within the framework of the four-step principle.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-325	Madam President, I would like It feels a little strange to stand here for a time like this, when we are in a crisis situation. But it is still quite nice that we have the Riksdag started and try to work on as usual. Both Sweden and the rest of the world are trying to deal with the crisis and its consequences both human and economic. Although it is hard to believe it right now, it is clear that we are going to get through this crisis as well. And life, even if it feels remote right now, will return to normal. Then it is important that we have a functioning infrastructure. In this crisis, we need to ensure that we have it even after the crisis. The infrastructure is the bloodstream of a society. It is through its various parts that we get to and from work and to and from family and friends. A well-functioning infrastructure is the basis for growth and employment throughout the country and, by extension, also a way of financing our common welfare and our security systems. Tens of thousands of companies depend on their goods and services being transported through Sweden and sometimes abroad. In the same way, millions of commuting Swedes' everyday lives with jobs or pick-up and drop-off at preschools and schools depend entirely on a functioning public transport system. In order to ensure the continued smooth functioning of the infrastructure, investments in maintenance but also new investments are needed. It is simply to be noted that the wish list of projects that we would like to implement with regard to infrastructure will always be longer than the money is actually enough for. We need to prioritise between projects. In this priority, it is important that we see the infrastructure as a whole. We should not set transport modes against each other, but see Sweden's infrastructure as a coherent whole. On many journeys and freight transport, different modes of transport interact. Each mode of transport must be used efficiently and be climate-smart, and we must be at the forefront in the use of new technologies. Madam President, I would like The overall transport policy objective is to ensure a socially efficient and sustainable transport supply throughout the country. The socio-economic calculation models underlying investment in infrastructure must be accurate and fair. Jens Holm spoke warmly in his speech for the four-step principle, and we are moderate to support it. It means trying to change behaviour, make changes to existing systems and make some adjustments before building new ones. What gets a little strange in Jens Holm's speech is that the Left Party is behind the high-speed train, despite the fact that the National Audit Office and others are critical of the project from a socio-economic perspective and not least because it conflicts with the four-step principle. Madam President, I would like When setting priorities, socio-economic and environmental profitability should guide the choice of infrastructure projects for which our limited resources should be used. The socio-economic calculations provide a good opportunity to compare different infrastructure projects with each other in order to form a socio-economically profitable list of priorities. The financial resources allocated to investment in infrastructure in Sweden are substantial. The national plan 2018-2029 covers just over 622 billion. Whether the investment budget is sufficient and whether the right priorities have been set are recurring issues. We Moderates want a Transport Policy Council to be set up to review and evaluate infrastructure policy on the basis of a transport policy framework. This framework shall be based on the principle that the overall infrastructure investments decided upon for each new national plan demonstrate a socio-economic efficiency. Madam President, I would like The transport sector is changing rapidly. New technologies are becoming available, and climate change is moving rapidly in large parts of the transport sector, in some parts of the transport sector where just a few years ago it was not thought that it would be possible to change. One example is the electric flight. Sweden has the conditions to be and should be a country at the forefront. We can set an example in terms of climate change in the transport sector. We Moderates believe it is important that the Swedish Transport Administration as one of its assignments has to investigate opportunities and challenges with future transport solutions. The aim is to quickly include new transport technologies and new solutions in our existing infrastructure, both in order to increase efficiency and to be able to switch more quickly. With this, Madam President, I would like to say that, of course, we support all our reservations, but in order to gain some time on the vote, we are only calling for reservation No 17.
i-T7YFCXbmWFTvADtLwiSXCB	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for an inspiring speech. It is good that the Moderates are behind the four-step principle. For this reason, I would like to ask: do the Moderates think that we should apply the four-step principle to the construction of Tvärtänden, as I mentioned here? If so, are the Moderates prepared to draw the logical conclusions from this application, namely that the outcome might be that we can benefit more from the money and reduce emissions by making other efforts than building this major motorway? That's one thing. Then I have another question. As Maria Stockhaus said, we in the Left Party are very much in favour of building high-speed rail, so that we can travel quickly in Sweden and do not need to fly between Stockholm and Gothenburg – our most common route in Sweden right now – or between Stockholm and Malmö. One can of course discuss whether it should be for high-speed trains or in what form it should be built. I would therefore like to ask the Moderates a more fundamental question: do the Moderates not think that more capacity is needed in the rail system? Today the tracks between Stockholm and Gothenburg and between Stockholm and Malmö are actually completely full, so they need to be expanded. If the Moderates think so, then we are quite in agreement. If the capacity needs to be expanded, it will be more a wonder whether the trains should run at 250 or 320 kilometres per hour. In fact, I think we can agree on this.
i-RSMzcJkCuqRTpAoovKAFWk	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the questions! When it comes to Tvärtändning Södertörn, it is linked to the fact that we have a large port there with the possibility of transporting a lot of goods. The trucks that are going to transport the goods further out into Sweden must currently sniff around on a lot of small roads to get to the E4, which is the big bloodstream for car traffic. That would be a very bad outcome for the vicinity between the port and the E4. Hence, we are moderates to build cross-connection Södertörn. Norvik port will be operational at any time. Not having sensible connections to and from our ports makes it more difficult to exploit their capacity. When it comes to high-speed trains, it is not full everywhere on the tracks between Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. There are some sections where increased capacity is needed to improve accessibility between Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. In order to make it easier for trains, we Moderates are prepared to look at where the bottlenecks are and make investments there. There are many other things you can do to improve the capacity of trains, including longer trains. In Sweden we drive with much shorter trains than in many other countries. That's where you need to bet. Now they have jumped over a lot of steps in the four-step principle to build completely new rails instead of thinking about how to screw in the existing system. It risks crowding out other important infrastructure investments that we need to make in Sweden. We Moderates don't want to do that.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-346	Madam President, I would like My specific question about Cross-connection Södertörn did not concern whether the Moderates are for them or not. I know that the Moderates are in favour of this construction, which will be loosed on more than SEK 11 billion and dismissed by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and other heavy bodies. My question was whether the Moderates are prepared to apply the four-step principle for this construction, which Maria Stockhaus speaks for warmly. The four-step principle assumes that the absolute last action to be taken is to build new capacity, build new motorways; that is step 4. You should start by looking at whether you can change people's behaviour, find other solutions and if you can maybe trim a bit in what already exists. It is not too far-fetched to think that if you build double tracks up to Hemfosa – it is a bit above Norvik harbour, which Stockhaus talks about – you get double tracks all the way from the harbour up to Stockholm. Many goods will then be able to be transported by rail instead. And if we use inland waterways more actively, we will also be able to transport much of the goods on barges instead of on the road. Then maybe we don't need a new highway. So the question is again: Are the Moderates prepared to keep their word on the four-step principle and apply it fully to this construction of the motorway and draw conclusions from it? As far as capacity and these routes are concerned, I believe that the Moderates will see that in the case of Järna, Norrköping, Linköping, Hässleholm, Lund and Malmö the easiest and most rational thing after all is to build new railways. But let's take it another time.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-351	Madam President, I would like The basic principle is that the four-step principle should be applied to all infrastructure projects to be implemented in this country. Now the problem is that we have already invested a lot of money in Norvik harbour. Then it is important that the goods that come in that way can move forward. When you talk about the environmental impact of car traffic, I think you get caught up in the technology we have today. But a lot is also happening when it comes to changing truck traffic. It is important that we have it with us when we look at the four-step principle and, above all, at the climate targets we have. As I said in my speech, a great deal is happening even in sectors that we might not have expected to change, such as aviation and truck traffic. This may make it reasonable to build a new road, in order to achieve efficiency throughout the system, short transport times and other things. The basic principle is that the four-step principle should be used for everything. Some deviations can be made for regional policy reasons and other reasons. But it is an important basic principle. Many experts have also expressed criticism about high-speed trains, precisely because the four-step principle has not been applied. Since Jens Holm has no more lines left, this becomes a rhetorical question: Is Jens Holm prepared to apply the four-step principle when it comes to high-speed trains? There are quite a few experts who have failed that project precisely on the basis of that principle.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-355	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats support all of our reservations. However, I only support reservation 22. Madam President, I would like This exercise block deals with the nation's infrastructure, and in these coronatids I cannot help worrying about everyone in the industry who suffers from layoffs or layoffs and any company that is in danger of going bankrupt due to loss of revenue. This pandemic risks hitting our infrastructure indirectly as well. The traffic law-crossing state framework for the planning period 2018 – 2029 amounts to approximately 700 billion, including congestion taxes and track charges. Will we retain this sum over the next few years? Is the State's revenue sufficient to cope with the planned investments and maintenance? The question may be left unanswered. But here, in the midst of the crisis, I would like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation for all those who keep the social functions rolling in our country, from nurses to bus drivers and others. Thank you for your work in this difficult time! Madam President, I would like A large part of the social debate has been marked by the goods or not being of high-speed trains. At the same time, in many places, we have underdeveloped infrastructure, which we Swedish democrats think is more of a priority than these very high-speed trains. We still have a large maintenance debt on both roads and railways. The east coast track along the population density of the coast of Norrland is in need of double tracks throughout its length. Kristianstad– Hässleholm, Örebro– Kolbäck, Skånebanan and more routes are in need of double tracks. At the same time, there is a need to strengthen our road network with more two-plus-two roads, six-lane E6 through Skåne and more. Jens Holm previously mentioned Cross-connection Södertörn. It is an important transport link, and the roads there today are bad, small and winding. The Stockholm – Oslo route could also be managed with reasonable resources in less than three hours by train. The list can be made long. But where are the resources for this if the money goes to the high-priority high-speed trains by several parties? One issue we rarely highlight is the extremely low profitability of companies transporting goods by rail. As things stand today, the largest companies find it difficult to achieve profitability. It will not be any better if, in the latest timetable, they have had a significant increase in forest time, and soon the EU's requirements for composite brake blocks, which risk leading to a drop in winter speed, will be met. Madam President, I would like We need to focus more on better opportunities for longer and heavier freight trains, more double tracks and more and longer meeting stations. We all have a desire to add more transport by rail to reduce the number of lorries. However, if there is no profitability in it, there may eventually be no operator left to do this transport work. Madam President, I would like We need to review the Trafikverket organisation. Since 2010, it has increased by as much as 30 per cent by 2018 and at the end of that year it consisted of 8,823 employees. See it in relation to the number of railway technicians, who build and maintain all rail in the country, after the last six months notice wave is down to about 3,200. We believe that a review should be carried out. Here we can look at Norway. I have in my hand an article that is a few weeks old. The title is:sparer in the office for use more in the spore. Bane Nor will significantly reduce its organisation in the offices equivalent to half a billion NOK. These resources will go to more workers in the track. We should follow Norway's example. We should also ask ourselves whether things improved with the Finnish Transport Administration. Or should we go back to the old system with a trackwork and a roadwork? Madam President, I would like While we are at Trafikverket, I will unsearched into the Swedish National Audit Office's review of Trafikverket's procurement of operation and maintenance of state roads. We in the Swedish Democrats have nailed this, and we believe that the government's assessments are too vague and that the proposals for action are not comprehensive enough. The method of contracting the operation and maintenance of the public road network was gradually introduced in the 1990s. By choosing this method, we need a great deal of knowledge about the road network and its status, as well as a great deal of knowledge about how to conduct procurements. Without this knowledge, the government risks that procurement will be significantly more expensive than is budgeted for. This is not sustainable for either the taxpayer or the state. The Swedish National Audit Office's audit identifies several shortcomings, some of which are rather serious. In particular, it is clear that out of the 47 contracts audited in a total of 109, 45 had a higher final cost than that indicated in the tender at the time of the tender. Furthermore, it appears that the cost deviations ranged from 0 to 200 per cent and that the average deviation was 41 per cent. The deviations for winter road maintenance were generally lower than the deviations for operation and maintenance, where the average cost deviation was as much as 57 per cent. Only four contracts pointed to a low cost deviation. It was between 0.2 and 8%. The contract of the winning tender with the lowest amount need not become the cheapest overall at the end of the contract. The Swedish National Audit Office highlights several cost drivers. One is the change of project manager. Often it becomes more expensive if a project manager disappears and a new or new one is added. In this respect, the Finnish Transport Administration must ensure a better exchange of experience and the necessary competence. There is a great deal of difference between the district in question. We believe that demands should be made that the Swedish Transport Administration internally take note of how the best district works with a particular issue and take it into account in future procurements. Which company wins a contract plays a big role. We believe that tenders submitted by bidders need to be examined more closely in order to make a better assessment of the final cost of a contract at the agreed end time. The Swedish National Audit Office focuses heavily on so-called unbalanced bidding. The Finnish Transport Agency needs to put in place more effective measures to reduce this problem, and a review of the Procurement Act should be carried out in order to overcome unreasonably low tenders and strategic bidding. Inspection of the work carried out is carried out in some cases through the purchase of an external consultant. The Swedish Democrats believe that the Swedish Transport Administration, as the manager of the facility, should implement this in its own right. Finally, we can conclude that there would be advantages if the State were to carry out part of its own basic maintenance. This creates the possibility to compare the costs between procured operations and maintenance and maintenance in its own right. This makes it easier to see the reasonableness of tenders submitted. The possibility to recruit project managers with a high level of expertise and experience within the work is strengthened through internal recruitment. A further advantage would be to eliminate the costs of tendering in these areas. We have also heard complaints from private companies in the industry that Svevia, which is a state-owned company, dumps the tenders so that the private can no longer compete in terms of prices. It is not very successful if a state-owned company uses unsubstantiated methods to strengthen its position on the market. If Svevia were to return to being a government work, and thus be dissolved as a company, this unhealthy competition in the market would also disappear. The areas being procured will then be free from state competition, which we believe would have benefited the road maintenance market.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-375	Madam President, I would like What Patrik Jönsson said about road maintenance and the review that the Swedish National Audit Office has done was interesting. This review gives stingy criticism, which Jönsson was concerned with. One can extend the criticism to the situation of railway maintenance, where it is similar if not worse. This too is completely liberalised and privatised. Today, Trafikverket has very little control of the tracks, since they are no longer responsible for maintenance. Among the operators carrying out the maintenance, no one takes overall responsibility. There has also been an increase in red tape, as procurements must always be made and the Swedish Transport Administration consulted before doing different things. This gives a higher cost to society than if they had done this in their own right. I thought I heard Patrik Jönsson say that the Swedish Democrats want road maintenance in their own direction. Could he elaborate on that? Does this also apply to railway maintenance? Do the Swedish Democrats want this in their own direction?
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-378	Madam President, I would like I essentially share Jens Holm's analysis of the problem. It is great that Jens Holm also raises the issue of whether even railway maintenance can be in its own direction. The answer from our side is yes. It doesn't apply to everything, but a large part of it. In any case, it should be roughly the size of what Infranord has today. It should be transferred to Trafikverket or to the railway network that we would very much like to have instead of a division of rail and railway lines. There are several good factors here. Fewer people need to engage in procurement, which costs money. You get in-house skills. It makes it easier to recruit people internally into important roles. They have better skills and knowledge of their facilities. What, then, is this supposed to look like? Today, both in road and rail, there is a division into different areas. This will have to be reviewed. Let us take the railway side as an example. Nevertheless, it differs significantly from road maintenance. One could have the main tracks and some central hubs in its own right and leave other things to the market. We think it is essential that some of them remain on the market so that we can compare what is best and cheapest.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-382	Madam President, I would like Soon there will be an investigation into a withdrawal of the basic maintenance of the railway so that it will be on its own. The investigation will be completed in a few weeks, and it will be very interesting to see what it proposes. Of course, even if you have your own operations, there is nothing that prevents the Swedish Transport Administration from taking in competence from private operators in areas where you do not have competence. Contracts will be continued in certain maintenance areas. But the important thing about letting it go back to the state is that you get a collective competence. You simply know what it looks like on the tracks, and you do not have much of the bureaucracy. Then you can perform a better – more optimal – maintenance of both roads and railways.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-384	Madam President, I would like I do not want to pre-empt the investigation in any way, but we welcome the fact that it might simply close down Infranord and establish something like the old Banverket Production. Perhaps we should consider doing something similar on the road side. There will be an unhealthy competition when Infranord and Svevia compete with the private. There has been strong criticism from both the railway and the road sides that prices are being dumped, which is also not healthy. As we said before, the advantage would have been that it would have been possible to compare state and private. What's the best thing? Another problem, as I have heard from the road maintenance side, is that when you have had a contract and it has expired, the roads have been in rather poor condition. Some roads have been driven to the bottom to save money. Of course, this idea would have come from if the government had provided maintenance. So it has both advantages and disadvantages. There are also advantages in keeping the private. Among other things, one can ensure that the state does not drift away – derail – and becomes twice as expensive as, for example, maintaining something with the private. I think you have to be concerned about keeping both sides. I would like to emphasise this.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-388	Madam President, I would like Sweden today, together with the rest of the world, faces an acute challenge in the consequences of the Corona epidemic, a challenge that dominates all of our consciousness right now. The impact of the crisis affects not least the infrastructure we are debating today. Yet it is now our mission to look forward to the challenges that will persist in terms of our infrastructure, even after the Corona. Of course, the Center Party supports all its claims, but for the winning time we only ask for reservation no. 6. Reliable, affordable and environmentally friendly transport is essential in a globalised world. Sweden is one of the world's most trade-dependent countries and one of the EU's most sparsely populated countries. Transport is the very bloodstream of our society. Distances must never be a barrier to competitiveness. The need for effective commuting opportunities is increasing. But the prerequisite for a society that is sustainable in the long term is that the infrastructure undergoes a fundamental change with the aim of not entailing any climate-related emissions. A policy that makes it possible to run businesses throughout the country requires working ways. The Center Party sees it as necessary to establish politically the minimum level of functioning roads in all parts of the country. We therefore believe that a minimum acceptable standard should be introduced on the road network. This is as reasonable as the State setting a minimum standard in other areas for the individual or the municipality. There are currently places in the country where the public road network is at times so bad that people do not dare or can drive there. This is not acceptable. On the climate issue, Sweden aims to reduce CO2 emissions from the transport sector by 70% by 2030. It is an ambitious objective that requires a national pool of forces, but it also represents a huge opportunity to set an example in the ongoing global change. Taking a leadership position in the development of alternative technologies and developing a flora of non-fossil sustainable fuels means big investments and big business opportunities. For this to be possible, good cooperation between industry and society is needed. Business appears increasingly to be an offensive player. Within the Fossil free Sweden initiative under the leadership of Svante Axelsson and Malin Strand, one industry agreement after another is signed, which means industry-specific handshake to achieve the climate policy objectives. In fact, in many areas, industry is more procrastinating than needing to be stimulated and driven towards sustainable solutions. It is now extremely important for us to follow up politically with clear long-term rules of the game within which this development should take place. It is about charging infrastructure and road electricity, but it is also about more sustainable aviation and maritime transport, cross-border common standards and much more. Electricity will play a dominant role in vehicles of the future. In this context, I would like to highlight the electrification strategy proposed by the Center Party in the past in order to facilitate the green transition. I note that it is now part of the state budget for 2020. For the foreseeable future, fuels that replace today's fossil fuels are also needed, for example in heavier vehicles and at long distances in sparsely populated parts of the country. It is therefore a question of providing good conditions for producing and distributing fossil-free fuels for all modes of transport. Clear and long-term policy frameworks are needed. Economic rules of the game should test and open up to competition the different options. This is the vision of the Center Party to achieve the best results. Madam President, I would like IT and telecommunications are increasingly becoming an integral part of the infrastructure. The Center Party usually calls it the fifth mode of transport. It is both about the importance of technology for digital communications that can replace physical travel and about support for other infrastructure, for example in the development of smarter logistics solutions and self-driving vehicles. Madam President, I would like Sweden's transport system must be equal in terms of the different needs of women and men. Transport is fundamental to our everyday lives, and equal transport is about giving women and men the same conditions for everything from long-distance travel to work commuting and pre-school pick-up. We know that safe traffic environments are, in general terms, a more important issue for women than for men. Women are more often concerned about being in the public room. This needs to be taken more clearly into account in the planning work, ranging from the design and lighting of pedestrian tunnels to dead ends, green areas and other places with limited transparency. Women need to be more involved in the planning process. I would like to say that one way of doing this is to ensure, from an early stage in the planning of traffic systems, that there is an equal distribution between men and women. Madam President, I would like Threats, violence and harassment against bus drivers and bus passengers are a growing problem. It creates a precarious and threatening environment in public transport and risks reducing the willingness to travel collectively. The Center Party is in favour of a simplified but legally secure permit management of camera surveillance. It should be possible to prevent, prevent, detect and subsequently investigate criminal activities more effectively through regulated camera surveillance. For more than 1 million people, it is the individual roads that make it possible to leave home and come back every day. Individual roads are also very important from the point of view of freight transport. The operation of the individual roads is based on a significant commitment from residents along the roads. It is important that they are given sufficient community support for the regular management of the road. However, additional efforts are also needed, for example in order to be able to equip the road for the introduction of longer and heavier trucks. The Center Party believes that it should be ensured that resources are provided, so that the 43 000 km of the single road should have a good standard, proper stretch and good bearing capacity. This is part of what the Center Party refers to with a minimum acceptable road standard throughout the country. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Transport Agency invoices vehicle owners for charges from congestion taxes and other tolls. If you go often this is done automatedally, but for many one-time visitors it is so that an invoice with a very small amount is sent home by mail. This is expensive to administer. It is also expensive for the person who misses to pay: D et cost 500 kroner. The Center Party believes that the Swedish Transport Agency should also develop automated systems for these charges, for example by accumulating per vehicle until the amount exceeds a certain amount and invoiced only then. Madam President, I would like In today's acute situation, the effects of Corona flu have meant that our society has stopped in a way that we have never experienced before. Combating the infection and its human consequences is, of course, the most important thing right now, but the pressures affect many parts of society. Several sectors of transport and infrastructure have problems relating to how companies will survive. At the moment, rapid and resolute policy measures are being delivered to minimise social costs urgently and in the longer term. Now is the time to put aside party political tactics and conflict-making. I hope for action and broad political gathering at a difficult time.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-402	Madam President, I would like I'm proud to be a Swedish politician. We can fight and debate, but when there is a crisis and Sweden is threatened we close up and work together. I've been through it on several occasions. For example, I sat on the Transport Committee when there was a Nine eleven, in 2001. At that time, there was a gathering that worked together to resolve the crisis that arose when insurance companies gave up insurance for the entire aviation sector. In the 2009 financial crisis, I had the privilege of being a municipal councillor in Uddevalla. Even then there was a gathering to deal with the situation. The majority of whom I belonged cooperated with the opposition. Even now there are good talks between the government and other party leaders and between the Minister of Finance and economic-political spokespersons. We have also had good dialogue with the people who were in the Committee on Transport. This ability to gather in times of crisis is good. It shows that although we have parties with many different angles of approach, we are prepared to put these aside when our municipalities or our country is facing a major challenge. Madam President, I would like Politics is often about showing differences. But sometimes, when the situation calls for it, politics must also be about showing that one can stand together. Right now is such a situation. We must do what we can to ensure that Sweden is able to cope with this situation in the best possible way, well aware that we will always be able to criticise individual decisions afterwards. We Christian Democrats are in favour of the measures taken by the government in relation to the transport industry. At the same time, I would like to point out that aviation, for example, needs to be given the opportunity to lay off staff of 100% over a period of time. Another issue that I have also raised is that our companies and industries, for example, should be able to be exempt from repayments. The crisis we see in public transport, rail, maritime transport and aviation, as well as in the tourism sector, is that the revenue is lost when you do not get any customers, but the staff and capital costs remain. Companies with high values are thus in danger of going bankrupt despite the fact that they are actually working well. Madam President, I would like Today we are going to talk about the Transport Committee's report 2019/ 20:TU7 Infrastructure issues. This is an important area because the infrastructure is part of the basic foundations that enable us to build a functioning society. Unfortunately, I often believe that we take the infrastructure for granted. But now that Sweden is being challenged by a disease affecting all sectors, we see how incredibly important aviation, shipping, rail, public transport and freight transport are. We cannot maintain good service or functioning care without well-functioning infrastructure and passenger and freight transport. From a Christian Democrat point of view, we have allocated something more resources than the government in this area. These additional resources have been used to highlight individual roads, electrification of cars and trucks via charging poles and further research on environmentally friendly fuel in aviation. With regard to the major budget lines relating to road and rail, we have about the same financial framework as the government. So we cannot promise more or less than the government, but our policy in this area is more about how to use the framework that Parliament has decided on. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a small and export-dependent country. A strong and competitive business sector depends on well-functioning and well-developed infrastructure. We would therefore like to emphasise the importance of road and rail maintenance in rural areas. At times when freight traffic is delayed, there may be considerable economic losses for the industry in the country. In order to achieve a high degree of flexibility and better punctuality for both passenger and freight traffic, increased maintenance and improved rail capacity are therefore required. However, it is important that efforts are made based on a system thinking so that we build complete distances when the social gain is achieved only after the system is completed. In addition to the business community's need for efficient freight flows, we as people depend on efficient infrastructure and public transport in order to be able to get to work and school or for other important trips as they do in everyday life. Madam President, I would like When we talk about systems, we talk about small details such as the lack of one kilometre of railway in Gothenburg so that Bohusbanan can load effectively to the port of Gothenburg. Another such example is that we must complete both roads and railways if Stockholm is to be able to take advantage of the new port in Norvik. We are also talking about the importance of completing the major systems. This applies, for example, to the sections along the Norrland coast. We have to work on the Nordic triangle. We need to get our infrastructures ready if we are to take advantage of the investments we are already making. In practice, Sweden is an island that depends on good relations with the continent if the whole of Sweden is to develop. Madam President, I would like It is not just the railways that need to be improved. The absolute majority of transport is by car and truck. That's how it is, and that's how it's gonna stay. There is probably no transport team that is more flexible and efficient than transport by individual vehicles. That is why we must continue to develop vehicle traffic as well. Today's roads need to be renovated and renovated, while new roads are also needed to improve the operation of vehicle traffic. Unfortunately, too often we get reports of individual roads that lack maintenance and thus have reduced speed instead of a renovation and upgraded road. This creates great irritation and impairs confidence in the Swedish infrastructure. All modes of transport affect the environment. It is therefore important that we continue to work on replacing the fleet of vehicles with more environmentally friendly vehicles. In our budget, we have allocated resources to electrification. However, more technical solutions will be needed to create a robust and environmentally friendly transport system. Preem's plans to produce diesel with forest waste are a good example of a future solution that creates a better environmental profile while using the diesel vehicles that already exist. We also believe that hydrogen and various forms of recycled energy will help to make the vehicle fleet more environmentally friendly, which is necessary if we are to meet the environmental objectives that we have all supported. Madam President, I would like As I have already pointed out, we have a similar framework for investment on roads. At the same time, there is a greater need for rehabilitation than the framework allows. We have therefore highlighted the need for a change of legislation so that municipalities and regions have the opportunity to co-finance various projects via Bompeng. There is strong popular support for improving local infrastructure in their own neighbourhood. That is why we should enable our local politicians to initiate further investments financed by those who use the infrastructure itself. Madam President, I would like I would also like to point out that it is extremely important that we continue to continue to examine how our authorities work with procurement and more. We set aside large sums of money for the development of infrastructure. It is therefore incredibly important that procurement takes place in such a way that we get the most out of these resources. Cooperation between state and business is good. It will give us better infrastructure at the right price. We are therefore in favour of the Swedish National Audit Office's review of our agencies and assume that the government and the authorities will take on board the recommendations that the Swedish National Audit Office highlights. Madam President, I would like We support all our reservations, but in order to gain time, I ask for reservation 3.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-424	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 12 on research and innovation. Today we are debating the country's infrastructure. This is what we do at the same time as the Corona virus paralyses the country. The sector that is most affected at present is precisely the transport industry, which uses Sweden's infrastructure. It shows the enormous importance of transport for the functioning of our country, but also within the EU and globally. When people are encouraged to work from home and stay home as far as possible if they experience flu symptoms, we see the importance of infrastructure for commuting to work and for freight handling and how many people get their livelihood through the transport industry. At the same time, it is made visible how different infrastructures are linked to and complementary to each other. This is most evident between the digital infrastructure and physical transport. Do we have a good enough digital infrastructure to enable people to work from home throughout the country, and do companies have sufficient digital capacity to cope with staff connectivity to corporate computer systems? These are important issues to be evaluated at a later stage. It is now a matter of minimising the harmful effects of the Corona virus as far as possible, mainly by protecting the elderly and other vulnerable groups and helping vulnerable companies and their employees, not least in aviation and maritime transport. It is important that we have functioning companies when the Corona crisis is over, so that we can quickly start transport with normal capacity again. However, transport capacity needs to be developed and adapted to climate change. Transport is important for people's commuting to work and leisure trips. At the same time, companies are also dependent on reliable transport. Sweden's competitiveness and the ability to run companies throughout the country are highly dependent on efficient transport. Current infrastructure needs to be maintained. We must invest in new capacities with a holistic approach, remove bottlenecks and also give priority to hubs for loading and unloading goods and smooth exchanges for passenger transport. One example is the transhipment of trains and lorries to shipping in our ports. Another example is efficient public transport to major airports. Liberals see that all modes of transport are needed, and it is an efficient use of the advantages of each mode of transport that builds a coherent strong infrastructure in Sweden. Sweden is in need of many different investments in infrastructure, and in order to be able to prioritise correctly, the socio-economic calculations are important as a basis for decision-making for us politicians. Liberals believe that the importance of goods for Sweden's development is undervalued in the calculations. We therefore need to develop the models so that reliable freight transport has a greater impact on companies' decision-making bases. The road network has been a priority for a number of years. This has mainly affected the road network in rural areas, when the Swedish Transport Administration had to give priority. It hits hard because the car is usually the only alternative for rural passenger transport. In addition, it makes it impossible for heavier and longer trucks, which provide efficient goods transport for our industries and which are therefore better for the climate. It is therefore important to continue efforts to improve road standards. This is particularly true in rural areas. Madam President, I would like The transport sector accounts for one third of Swedish climate emissions, and 93% of these emissions come from road traffic. The Swedish vehicle fleet must therefore become more sustainable, and emissions must be reduced. In order to reduce climate impact but maintain mobility, which is very important for the Liberals, transport needs to be made more efficient and the use of biofuels and electric vehicles, as well as research and exploitation of new technologies increased. Liberals have initiated the electrification commission, which will focus on electrification of heavy transport. Infrastructure investments in both charging infrastructure and electric roads are needed to facilitate the transition to electric trucks. At the same time, a nationwide network of charging infrastructure for rechargeable cars needs to be created quickly, so that people dare to invest in electric cars. If you don't know if you can get where you want with a truck, you don't bet on an electric car. The transfer of goods from road to rail and shipping is important for the climate and should be given greater weight in prioritising infrastructure efforts. It may be a question of upgrading and building new railways, but it may also apply to measures to improve the efficiency of ports and other places where goods are transhipped. Aviation and shipping also need to switch from their dependence on fossil fuel. For aviation there is a promising development of electric flights, which before 2030 can have a greater impact on shorter distances up to 400 km. Liberals welcome the ongoing investigation into the possibilities of electric flights and want the Government's airport strategy to take into account the potential of electric flights to connect Sweden more effectively through direct flights between regional airports. Here too, the need for charging infrastructure needs to be taken into account. However, biofuels will be needed to reduce the climate impact of both aviation and shipping for a long time to come. It is therefore important that we drive the development of rechargeable cars. There is a limited amount of biofuels, and it is really needed for aviation and maritime transport. Madam President, I would like If we are to meet our climate goals and make our transport more efficient, we need research, innovation and technological development, not least in road transport. We need to develop self-driving electric cars that are connected and serve a sharing economy in society. We need legislation that will enable us to take advantage of the rapid development of technology as long as it meets security requirements and privacy requirements. Digitalisation offers great opportunities where access to data should be a natural part of the infrastructure and thus provide a safe and efficient transport system. I support reservation 12, Forsning and innovation.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-437	Madam President, I would like A well-functioning transport system is crucial for the functioning of our country. If you look at Sweden from a population perspective, it is a fairly small country, but from a geographical perspective it is a fairly large country. This means, of course, that there are special conditions for making the transport system work throughout the country. It is about the whole business community being able to function, that the industry should be able to function and that people should be able to move around both in smaller towns and in larger cities. Sweden is an export-dependent country. The export industry is at the heart of the Swedish economy, and it assumes that we have functioning transport. In the shadow of the pandemic that we are currently experiencing, we see the importance of a functioning infrastructure system. It's about deliveries working and the infrastructure standing tall for challenges, whether we're talking about road, rail, shipping, aviation, public transport or IT infrastructure. They're all part of society's bloodstream. Without a functioning infrastructure, our society would literally collapse. In the crisis that we are experiencing now, everything is being put a little on hold. Both our country and many others are in the midst of a critical situation caused by the corona virus or covid-19. It is, of course, urgent to contain the spread of the disease, so that the health care system can meet the challenges that we have to face. We are now seeing a radical decline in passenger transport. Some may temporarily work from home while others do as I do: bikes or go to work. It is incredibly nice to see the solidarity shown by the Swedish people right now. It facilitates the limitation of the spread of infection, and it means that public transport travel does not have to involve an increased risk for those who need transport in order to get to work – to those jobs that require physical presence, perhaps in a grocery store or in the pharmaceutical industry or in the healthcare sector. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to extend warm and deep thanks to all those who make this possible. Of course, everyone who works in health care is making invaluable efforts right now. Those who work in the transport industry may not be fully visible, but it is they who make sure that there are goods on the shelves in the store, so that you and I can have food on the table. They are the ones who make sure that people can get to work, so that health care actually works. And they are the ones who make sure that the sick can get to care. Thank you, all of you who contribute to this! Madam President, I would like Today, we are examining the Government's letter in response to the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the Swedish Transport Agency's procurement of operation and maintenance of state roads. At the same time, we are dealing with 282 requests from the general exercise time. It is obvious, of course, that the infrastructure concerns all of us. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all reservations. I would like to emphasise that we have a transport policy objective that has been associated over time with different governments and different political collaborations. It is an important condition that we have long-term planning that lasts over time. It is crucial for us to be able to have a functioning transport supply across the country. Transport policy objectives have also guided the current investment plan. It includes a total investment of 700 billion, which is 100 billion more than the previous plan. It is important that there is a need for additional resources. The starting point of the investment plan was adopted by the Riksdag when we discussed the infrastructure bill in 2017. The focus is on innovative and efficient solutions. There is a transition with a view to becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country, improving the conditions for business throughout the country, strengthening employment and exploiting the opportunities provided by digitalisation in order to achieve a sustainable transport system. The latest infrastructure bill also related investments in housing infrastructure. I cannot stress enough the importance of this. For too long infrastructure planning has been based mainly on a real need or a practical problem that has arisen. The added starting point opens up the possibility of creating new opportunities, supported by infrastructure planning and investment, to take account of how new labour markets can be reached and how new areas can create attractive places for housing construction. In addition to the transport policy objective, there is also a functional and sustainability objective. The functional objective means that the design, function and use of the transport system will contribute to providing everyone with basic accessibility and good quality and usability, as well as contributing to development power throughout the country. I would like to emphasise here that the transport system must be equal and must take account of the different needs of both men and women. There are differences between women's and men's travel patterns, where men travel more car and women travel more collectively. At the same time, we see that the proportion of people who feel that the insecurity in public transport has increased has increased and that the increase is greatest among women. Of course, this development is not acceptable. We must urgently continue to work at all levels to achieve a secure public transport system for all. This is particularly important from the perspective of the sustainability objective, which is that we should have a long-term sustainable transport system. Maybe that's the biggest challenge we've got ahead of us. It is clearly linked to the Paris Agreement and the UN Sustainable Development Goals in Agenda 2030, and it is clearly linked to the climate strategy that the government has recently presented, just like the EU's work on its new green deal. Climate challenges are, of course, global, but they are national. We have high ambitions, not least because in the investment plan and in the past we have stated that we will be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. We will achieve net zero emissions by 2045 with a milestone target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport by at least 70% by 2030. These are tough goals that place great demands on our entire society. Basically, we need to be able to look our children and grandchildren in the eye. It is about choices on the big side, such as changing freight transport from road to rail and shipping. It is about becoming more efficient from a climate perspective, that we should be better able to have smarter and more climate-friendly truck transport. It's also about you and me and the choices we make. It is a matter of choosing the train in front of the flight whenever possible. It's about taking the bus instead of the car and thinking environmentally friendly when we get a new car. If we are to meet the climate challenges, we must stick together, from us legislators to industry to the individual choices of everyday life. If the changeover is to be possible, the security of public transport is also a prerequisite. Insecureness must never be a reason for choosing a means of transport other than the collective, which is almost always the smartest. Madam President, I would like In this context, I would also like to highlight what the Minister for Infrastructure usually says: Sweden should be a permanent world exhibition for innovations in the field of transport. That's what it takes to get us through the transition. We need smart and innovative solutions for people to make smart and environmentally friendly choices. With the help of digitalisation, we can also find smart ways of mobility. We can use our climate ambitions to strengthen Swedish competitiveness and Swedish business. I would like to say that the possibilities are actually endless. For us Social Democrats, all modes of transport are important. They complement each other, and they are needed in different ways. It is not successful to set one mode of transport against another, but the infrastructure planning must be about them all. That is also what has been the very direction of the infrastructure bill that we discussed and which has become the government's investment plan. I think that's good. That is why, Madam President, I cannot help but respond to what the chairman of the committee, Jens Holm, mentioned in this House. Just like last year, he calls for a revision of the investment plan. The chairman of the committee should know that the plan is actually revised every four years. There will of course be a revision. Nor can I fail to respond to the same speech on cross-connection with Södertörn. As a representative of the Social Democrats on a national level, I am of course very concerned that things have not gone faster and that the construction of the Interconnection Södertörn has not yet come about. The port of Norvik actually opens during the year, first as a container port and in the autumn the roro port will be inaugurated. It is clear that this will create new problems, not least with regard to lorry transport in the Stockholm region. As a stockholmer and representative of the Stockholm region, I can also be somewhat concerned that this has not gone faster and that the chairman of the Transport Committee is unable to see what opportunities Tvärländen Södertörn could offer. The problems we will see are heavy goods traffic that will go on small roads. If you could connect Tvärtändning Södertörn with the planning of Förbyfart Stockholm, we could get brand new travel patterns in the Stockholm region. It could relieve the existing public transport which, in any case, normally has a very large number of passengers and is quite vulnerable. Here we need new systems. We could bring a smart BRT solution across the Stockholm region to the new regional railway station in Barkarby, which is now being built and will soon be opened. Rather, I see great opportunities here. Finally, Madam President, I would like to go back to where I started. We are currently in an emergency. What might have felt primary yesterday is a little secondary today. In times of crisis, maintaining a functioning transport system is the most important thing in the area of infrastructure. In the short term, I appreciate that the legislature is able to put aside the political conflict and instead focus on the work that is most important at the moment: to ensure that those who fulfil important functions for society can be transported and that goods and goods, despite closed borders, can both come in and out of our country and reach those who have needs. Believe me! There will be a tomorrow, and then we Social Democrats will continue to strengthen the circulation of the infrastructure in order to ensure that flows work throughout our country in the future as well.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-466	Madam President, I would like Teres Lindberg said many important things about climate change, about the great challenge we are in the middle of. As the Climate Policy Council stated, there is something that is not connected between words and practice in what the government does. For example, the Climate Policy Council refers to infrastructure planning, and it notes that there is an infrastructure plan based on forecasts of increased road traffic, which unfortunately does not start from the climate targets that exist. They are about emissions from the transport sector to be reduced by 70% within ten years and net zero emissions to 2045 at the latest. The problem in the national infrastructure plan is that too little is given to the railways, and what exists is far too late, that new motorways are being built, that far too little is being given to build new bicycle infrastructure, less than 1% of the money is allocated to it, and so on. It is good that Teres Lindberg says that the national infrastructure plan should be revised. When will the revision be carried out? We will never get any concrete information from the minister responsible. Is the idea that with the revision we will have a revised plan based on our climate targets, not forecasts of increased road traffic? The port of Norvik will be opened in May this year. The port is a major problem, and it will lead to a thousand new truck transports a day, that is four times more truck transport than it is now at Södertörn. It is possible to transport goods by rail and by inland waterway, Teres Lindberg. Why don't you plan for it instead of more road traffic?
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-471	Madam President, I would like The investment plan shall be updated within its term of office. I can't answer exactly when, but it's every four years. The former was adopted just before the election, i.e. 2018, so reasonable is to believe that it will come to 2022. This is a long-term work that leads to an investment plan, many investigations and so on. I do not think we should rush things because it will not make us make sensible decisions. Let the time run. As far as environmental ambitions are concerned, there is no doubt that the Government's ambitions – those of the Social Democrats and those of mine – are important. They are one of the biggest challenges we face. Not least, the global movement against climate change clearly shows that it affects many people. It is a responsibility we have as legislators and as people to do what we can to prevent this. I get a little worried when Jens Holm lifts up the bike infrastructure as one of the primary parts. Now it is not the state that is primarily responsible for bicycle investments, but it is municipalities and regions that have that responsibility. The state should provide the conditions for making good investments, and there should be legislation that makes them work. But it is not primarily our role to invest in the regions or in the municipalities so that the regional cycle commuting will work, but it must be on the municipalities because it is mainly they who provide the infrastructure. I do not think it will work if we put cycle paths along the motorways, they do not make cycling easier, but other measures need to be put in place.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-475	Madam President, I would like There is money for bicycle infrastructure in the national plan. It is a bicycle pot of less than SEK 2 billion. Then there are in regional plans about 5 billion to expanded bicycle infrastructure. That'll be a total of $7 billion. This is about 1 percent of the total SEK 700 billion to be spent on expanded infrastructure over the next twelve years. That is not quite proposed, we believe in the Left Party. I did not receive a concrete response from Teres Lindberg on the revision of the infrastructure plan. Will this revision be based on our climate targets, not on forecasts of increased road traffic, as the Climate Policy Council has proposed? I would like to ask Teres Lindberg another question. Do the Social Democrats believe that it is possible to achieve our climate goals with the expansion of the Interconnection Södertörn, which will lead to increased road traffic? The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's assessment is that the motorway is contrary to our climate goals. It may then be necessary to examine whether there are other solutions to meet freight transport to and from Norvik's port, for example with increased railway capacity, double tracks all the way to Norvik's port or inland waterways. These are exactly the thoughts that were expressed when planning the port, but which the government has unfortunately not included in the national investment plan. Can we reach our climate targets, Teres Lindberg, with the help of Tvärtändning Södertörn – the new major highway?
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-479	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm knows very well that the preparatory work for the upcoming investment plan is not ready. Therefore, I cannot stand here and promise what it will contain or in exactly what way it will be formulated. We'll just have to wait and see. Once it comes, we will have the debate. I think that's reasonable. Norvik's harbour is a climate investment of rank from the region's side. The main competitor to Norvik harbour is the Port of Gothenburg. I would like to say that it is very good that instead of transporting most of the goods to the Stockholm region and its surroundings by car to Gothenburg, it goes by truck straight up to Norvik. It's a climate venture of rank. The fact that the necessary round infrastructure has not yet been completed is a concern. But to think that everything should be carried by rail is not possible. You could send the goods to another combined terminal, but the goods that arrive in Norvik should not be sent to one place, but should be distributed throughout the region. There is not a railway that goes to every block or every industry, but much of the goods that come through the container port will of course have to go across the whole region. It is not feasible to believe that another railway would solve all the problems. Of course I wish, just like Jens Holm, that as much as possible should go by rail. But if it only means longer and more complicated transport, it is not a good idea.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-482	Madam President, I would like I have two questions for Mr Teres Lindberg. During the autumn we have seen a wave of notice in the railway industry – this under Social Democratic rule. About 15% of all railway technicians have been given notice of termination. This is particularly true of small entrepreneurs, but also the great dragon Infranord has announced 51 people of dismissal. It happened in December. I've been working for 20 years in the railway sector, and it hurts me. I understand that this will be a problem when we take forward major investments in our railways. At the same time, I have previously explained, and we have seen, how the Swedish Transport Administration's organisation has swelled by 30 percent between 2010 and 2018.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-486	My second question concerns the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the procurement of the operation and maintenance of state roads. We see that the contracts have run out in cost, and we see major cost deviations. The answer from the government was difficult – there were basically no concrete measures at all. My second question is therefore what concrete measures the Social Democrats intend to take to reduce the cost deviations for contracts and for the operation and maintenance of state roads.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-488	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Patrik Jönsson, for important questions! Of course we have also been concerned. I believe that all of us who follow transport policy, and especially those of us who sit on the Committee on Transport, have been concerned about this very thing. This is linked to the fact that, in the investment plan that is in place, we have increased maintenance investments to the railways by 47%. Of course, it has contributed to getting a lot of work started. Then various budgetary technical rules have led to a little too much being started on one side of the turn of the year compared to the other. It's a big worry. I know the Department of Infrastructure is well aware of this problem. I also know that calls have been made with the Finnish Transport Administration. On top of that, I cannot give any concrete information here. But in the long term there are resources dedicated to railway maintenance. This is urgently a practical problem that needs to be resolved, and I am grateful that the companies involved and forced to warn have also made policy aware of the problems we face. I really believe nothing but that we will solve them.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-492	Madam President, I would like It is good that you are concerned, but you will not get very far with a concern if you do not take action. In fact, the crisis facing the railway industry could have been resolved if you had chosen, as a government party, to increase funding for the Finnish Transport Agency. I wonder on what grounds you chose not to do this. My direct question was whether you are willing to take steps to reduce the costs of the Administration of the Finnish Transport Administration, as Mr Bane Nor has done, and thus transfer more resources to workers on the track. Nor did I get an answer to the question of the cost deviations of contracts relating to the public road network and operation and maintenance. I hope that Mr Teres Lindberg will be able to deliver an answer to this now.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-496	Madam President, I would like I would just like to inform Mr Jönsson that I, too, am an ordinary Member of Parliament. I am not fully aware of the government work or what the authorities do on a daily basis. Patrik Jönsson is asking questions here that should rather be addressed to the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Minister for Infrastructure. I suppose the honourable Member is well aware of this and is trying to put me in a difficult situation by asking questions that I cannot answer. I don't think it's really okay. I know the government is doing what it can to counter this kind of problem. The honourable Member, Patrik Jönsson, also knows that. Having said that, I believe that in the dialogue that we are conducting with the Ministry of Infrastructure right now there are quite other issues that are in focus. It is about ensuring that people have food on the table, that transport works and can cross closed borders and so on. We have completely different concerns right now, and I think we need to keep our heads cool and have a full focus on them in the next few weeks – maybe months. I hope we can agree on that.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-498	Madam President, I would like In her speech, Teres Lindberg highlighted the very important national infrastructure plan. That is when I asked for the floor. Not everyone in Sweden is aware of this, but the infrastructure plan is a twelve-year plan that will be evaluated and re-evaluated every four years and planned for the next twelve years. It is an important governance document for authorities, regions and municipalities and for us in the Riksdag, which means that we have long-term planning when it comes to infrastructure that tries to get us in Sweden to go in the same direction. For my part, I have asked the Minister on a couple of occasions about the infrastructure plan. I was therefore pleased when Teres Lindberg raised that question. According to current planning, it is quite correct, as has been said earlier in the debate, that 2022 the plan should come to this House for re-evaluation for the next twelve years. It is just a small problem, and that is that both authorities and regions and others are signaling that questions are not given that allow you to produce data, and if no evidence is produced, it is difficult for the government to deliver something to the House. When I asked about this in the past, I have been told that it is being prepared in the Government Office. I have respect for the fact that an individual Member cannot respond to what is happening in the Government Office, but I wonder whether the honourable Member shares the concerns I and many with me that it seems that the plan will not come about by 2022. At least when we listen to the authorities and regions, we feel that there is a delay in this, and that is deeply worrying.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-503	Madam President, I would like Magnus Jacobsson raises an important and urgent issue. Let me just be clear and correct to the honourable Member: the infrastructure plan is not decided by the Swedish Parliament – for better or for worse. As a Member of Parliament, you may say evil, but in order for it to work in practice, it may make sense. We in Parliament are dealing with a letter on the basis of the infrastructure plan decided by the Government. What we are dealing with, however, is an infrastructure proposal which deals with the preconditions and the financial framework for the future infrastructure plan. I've been trying to get a concrete message from the Department of Infrastructure these days. With all due respect, they have not given priority to this particular issue these days. I hope that we in Parliament and in the Committee on Transport will be able to have a more concrete timetable for the future infrastructure plan, because it is important. It is important for international investment and very important for the county planning that comes about as a result of the infrastructure plan presented by the government, so there is a lot of work to come out of that government decision. I have no clearer answer than that. I can only refer to the answers given to Magnus Jacobsson earlier in interpellation responses from the Minister for Infrastructure.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-506	Madam President, I would like That is, of course, correct, as the honourable Member points out. But my basic question was whether you share these concerns. I have the greatest respect for the fact that we as Members, whether we belong to the government or to the opposition, are not actually in the government. I respect that. I did not ask the question from that point of view, but I reacted to the honourable Member's highlighting this because I think it is something extremely important to highlight. My concern is that I asked this question already last autumn, both as an individual question and as an interpellation. I was then told that it is being prepared in the Government Office. I have the greatest respect for working with other issues just today, which I highlighted in my speech. I even think that we in Sweden right now are really good at walking side by side and supporting each other in this difficult situation. However, the fact remains that in the long-term work both authorities and regions signal that they have not received the necessary questions to be able to take a stand. My question remains: does Teres Lindberg share the concern that the Christian Democrats, among other things, feel that this plan does not appear to be in place before 2022? It is deeply worrying, because you cannot plan activities. Nor can we plan our budget work if we do not really know which direction to go. Does the honourable Member share this concern? In that case, I hope that she is on top of her colleagues in the government so that this can be achieved as quickly as possible.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-511	Madam President, I would like As I said, the question is being prepared at the Government Office. I'm not very worried. The previous infrastructure bill, which was discussed in the Riksdag, was taken in the early summer of 2017, i.e. one year before the actual investment plan was discussed here in the Riksdag. So there is still plenty of time, and I have no concern that the government will not deliver this within the timeframe necessary to make sensible plans.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-512	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank the President, the Presidium of Presidents and the Parliamentary Board for the way in which the exceptional situation is handled. Society is affected in every possible way and so is the work of the Swedish parliament, but I think that clear information has been given and a good balance has been made during this difficult time. It is important that we, as elected members, can continue to support confidence and continue our work, even if it is in a completely different way. I am replacing Emma Berginger today, who, like many others, has mild symptoms but has been urged to stay home. She, along with hundreds of others, was temporarily elected to various committees this morning. We are now talking about the Transport Committee's report No 7 on infrastructure. It deals with a large number of motion proposals on the rehabilitation and extension of various roads and railways in the country. Motion proposals have been rejected with reference to the division of roles in transport policy, which means that the parliament is involved in deciding on the framework for infrastructure investments while the government establishes the national plan. The report also deals with the Government's letter in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's reviews of the operation and maintenance of state roads, which are added to the documents. I support the committee's proposal in the report. Madam President, I would like In these times the vulnerability of society becomes clear to everyone. I hope that when we have dealt with this crisis together, we will strike a sensible balance in order to deal with the ongoing climate crisis, which is also sneaking up on us and where we will have less and less time to take the necessary measures to ensure that it does not have extremely far-reaching consequences for the whole of our planet. Domestic transport currently accounts for about one third of Sweden's greenhouse gas emissions, and road traffic in turn accounts for more than 90% of the transport sector's emissions. The transport sector needs a strong transition if we are to meet the climate targets and contribute to the Paris Agreement's objective of keeping global warming below 2 degrees and preferably below 1.5 degrees. The Green Party has been the driving force behind the development of the Climate Act, which includes targets for Sweden to have no net emissions to the atmosphere in 2045. The Act also sets a sector target for emissions from domestic transport to be reduced by at least 70 per cent by 2030 compared to 2010. It will therefore require both electrification and a transition to more sustainable fuels, but that is not enough. There is also a need for more efficient transport if we are to meet the 2030 target and not least if we are to meet the 2045 target. As far as infrastructure investment is concerned, we in the Green Party are clear. We want the investments made to be directed towards measures that will enable us to achieve our climate goals. We think it is a good thing that the government has now clarified that the accessibility target should be achieved mainly within the context of the consideration objective, and this will be followed up in accordance with the climate action plan. Finally, Madam President, I think it is particularly important in these times to direct thoughts and strength to all those who support our societies in different ways. In the field of transport, it is not least about everyone who drives sick transport and everyone who works in shipping and in the bus, air and, not least, in the taxi industry. They support our society and show how crucial they are, not least in situations like this.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-519	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Moderates' reservation 6 on rules for certain animal husbandry. In this time it feels a little strange to stand here and talk about something other than the crisis that comes with covid-19. But we all know that other issues do not stop, and that is why we are here in Parliament. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to all the people who work in health care, transport, police, emergency services and others. There are no words for how appreciated your work is. You cannot shut down everything in society; it must continue to work as best you can. People's personal commitment is now about helping each other, and civil society is more important than ever. I know I ask myself: Is there anything I can do to help someone else? It could be shopping for a bag of food and hanging it on a door. I now turn to the issue of animal welfare. All animals kept by humans are subject to animal welfare legislation, which must act preventively. The goal is for the animals to have a good life and be able to behave naturally. The Animal Welfare Act also states that acts involving physical and mental suffering for animals are prohibited. The welfare of animals requires clear and responsible legislation and regulations that regulate protection and prevention, but the way there may vary. Madam President, I would like We know that this is a broad area where there are several different issues that we need to address and change, now and in the future. Sweden's requirements for animal welfare are among the highest in the world. We are proud of this. Good animal welfare means that our animals are healthier and get significantly less antibiotics compared to the animals in other countries. This is important. Overconsumption of antibiotics poses a risk of the formation of multi-resistant bacteria that can be transmitted to humans. The European Institute for Disease Control estimates that 25 000 deaths per year in the EU alone are due to such bacteria. The Moderates therefore welcome the new EU Regulation on veterinary medicinal products, which more strictly regulates the use of antibiotics in animals. Now, of course, all the countries of the Union are living up to a reduction in the use of antibiotics and exceptions to treatment do not become the rule, as is the case in many Member States. Such a procedure not only contributes to antibiotic resistance but also distorts competition in the Union. Therefore, it is important that the law is monitored and evaluated systematically. This is an issue which affects us here in Sweden and which it is important for the government to operate in the EU. I would also like to mention something about research using animal-free methods, Madam President. In 2010, the European Parliament adopted the so-called Animal Health Directive. The purpose of the Directive is to replace the experiments currently carried out on live animals, in either scientific or educational contexts, with non-animal methods wherever possible. The Netherlands has adopted a strategy for this. This means that they must have phased out many of the animal experiments by 2025 and have adopted various action plans to reduce animal testing in areas such as basic research. The initiative of the Netherlands is very interesting from various aspects, such as ethics, efficiency and the economy. It is also very reasonable because there are now alternative ways of developing new medicines, which are more effective and can also shorten their development processes. It may be via studies on living cells in test tubes or by computational models in the computer. This means that more sick people get help faster and at a significantly lower cost for drug development. We know that more research is needed in this area, which is extremely important, especially in times like these when we need medicines. Madam President, I would like I would also like to mention something about animal welfare in the EU and animal transport. Recently, the European Court of Auditors presented a report in which they have examined how the EU Animal Welfare Strategy works, or rather how it does not work. They found, for example, that most pigs in other EU countries get rid of their knuckles, even though it is forbidden. Furthermore, it is common for animal transport to exceed the set time limits, which is unacceptable. When this was published, the European Parliament called on the European Commission to become tougher and to punish those Member States that have not properly implemented the laws or that do not follow up their enforcement through good supervision. We in the Moderates believe that these are issues in which Sweden should be as active as possible, not only for Swedish farm animals, but for all cows, pigs and chickens in the EU to be given increased protection. This is something that would improve the situation also for Swedish animal farmers. There is a clear connection here. Given the high demands we place on the welfare of our animals, there is a risk that the cost of complying with our laws is much higher than in other countries without agriculture being able to charge for it. This may mean replacing the products with imported meat. This is a development that we have unfortunately seen in other areas and which we must resist. Already today, every other chew of meat we eat is imported from animals that have lived in significantly worse conditions than our Swedish. Then I would like to mention something about an issue that is extremely important for our animals to be able to live safely and feel good here in Sweden. This applies to our pets and our animals kept in agriculture. I'm talking about animal health. More and more people see their pets as family members. That's a fact. If the pets get sick, you want to have access to quick help, but today the geographical distances to animal hospitals can be very long. In addition, during the summer, the majority of animal hospitals shut down their on-call activities due to the lack of veterinarians and animal carers. This means that our pets risk unnecessary suffering and, in the worst case, die because they do not receive treatment on time. Pets and livestock farms should receive the necessary animal health care. With regard to the supply of competence for Swedish animal health care, there is a serious imbalance where there is a large shortage of veterinarians, animal nurses and animal carers. At the same time, many people want to learn, and the search pressure in the training places is great. The Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, which is the only provider of education, has about 15 applicants per place. We Moderates believe that the number of training places for the veterinary programme and the animal health care programme needs to be radically increased in order to ensure that animal health care is ensured. In addition to this, the quality of upper secondary education to animal health care providers needs to be improved. Animal carers are a professional category that corresponds to nurses in the health care sector, but despite the fact that the training of animal carers is as extensive as that of nurses, their powers are very limited. It is reasonable for them to have the same powers. There is much to be said about animal welfare, and for me personally this is an extremely important area where I see that we can do much more to protect our animals in the best way. In these times, I would like to end by saying: Take care of yourselves and others who may need help in these difficult times!
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-537	Madam President, I would like At a time like this, it is easy to think about how fragile our society is, how important our farming is, how important our farmers are to our self-sufficiency and how important it is that the quality of our food is good. It is clear that Swedish people are proud of our animal husbandry, where we have comparable healthy animals and low antibiotic use. This is something that we would of course have liked to have been the case in more countries, both for animal welfare, for food quality and for competitiveness. Madam President, I would like Because farmers in other countries have lower animal welfare standards, they can sell their products at a lower price. Is it really fair that Swedish farmers should have competitive disadvantages because they have good husbandry? I don't think so. Of course, Swedish animal husbandry should continue to be good, but in order for Swedish farmers not to be disadvantaged in the EU's internal market, it is important that animal welfare legislation is harmonised within the EU. It would be good if the Swedish Animal Welfare Act were to serve as a guide. Therefore, although we support all our reservations and the requests that have been dealt with in a simplified manner, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1 in the report. While I am in the European Union, I would like to take this opportunity to mention the terrible slaughter in which animals that are still conscious are allowed to be tormented by having their throats cut. They live and are fully aware, panicked and try to break free from what holds them while the blood flows out of their bodies. Is this the type of food we want in Sweden? For the fact remains that although it is forbidden to carry out unjudged slaughter in Sweden, there are still exceptions in the EU, and we then import this meat into the country, both to shops and to the public. Should not the animals we import also be produced in accordance with the requirements we impose on our own farmers? Many consumers in Sweden are eating today, without knowing it, meat that comes from animals that have been cosher- or slippery-slaughtered. We do not think this is right, but we want meat sold in Sweden to have been produced in a way that lives up to the Swedish Animal Welfare Act. In the meantime, however, we would at least like to see a clear labelling of products sold where animals have been slaughtered without stunning, so that consumers can at least make an active choice themselves. We want to see this in Sweden, and we want the government to work for this to happen throughout the EU. Madam President, I would like As a general rule, the report on animal welfare is only taken up once a year in this House, so I would like to take this opportunity to talk a little about the appalling treatment to which many animals have been subjected and which was highlighted this summer. It is about the cats, hedgehogs, hares and more that were subjected to painful acts where they were lacerated, used as footballs, had their ears cut off or their eyes poke or otherwise mutilated. The fact that this is happening in Sweden today is, of course, something that we take seriously, and I would like to point out that our legislation must be very clear in signalling that this is not how we treat animals here, whether it is your own animal, someone else's animal or a wild animal. We are a country where we are concerned about our animals, and that is why we need to have a criminal report about gross animal cruelty where prisons are on the scale of punishment. If we do not signal that we are taking this seriously, these appalling acts are in danger of continuing. If we are working towards a national tougher legislation against those who harm animals and, at the same time, are working for the EU to have better animal welfare legislation, we are at least a bit along the way, because animals do not deserve to be tormented, not for religious reasons and certainly not for pleasure.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-546	Madam President, I would like Animal welfare is an issue that engages us center parties throughout the country. That is why we have many reservations which we naturally support. However, for time to come, I only support reservation 4 on antibiotic issues – paragraph 2. Madam President, I would like As a Swedish rural resident, I must say that I am extremely proud of our green industries in Sweden. Swedish agriculture stands for good animal care, safe food, open landscapes, environmental considerations and many green jobs. Agriculture also plays an important role in the transition to a sustainable society. And Swedish agriculture is best in the world, for example, when it comes to low antibiotic use, low levels of salmonella and good care for animals. In order for us to maintain these high standards in an international perspective, Swedish agriculture must also have the right conditions. Madam President, I would like These are tough times now in many different ways. If I call it coronatides a little carelessly, it is also a time when, not least, food security and the need for a strong food chain from farm to table in many different situations have really been recognised, not least in the event of crises of various kinds. In order for people to be able to feed stomachs, tasty meals and more, the very foundation of our so-called primary production is the farmer on the farm. Sustainable production of both food and drink is an insurance policy to cope with major pressures in an increasingly troubled time. It is also a route for reducing climate impact and investing in jobs. In commercials of various kinds you often see the fantastic opportunity that the farmer has to live in harmony with the changes in the seasons, from spring use via summer when everything grows, to autumn use when it is to be harvested. But there are also other pictures, quite tough pictures. Summer drought a few years ago put many entrepreneurs under very severe pressure. When it comes to government contacts, there are many, regulations are tight and processing times are often long. It gives a completely different picture than the one I described earlier about the more flowering part. That is why we from the Center Party have proposed efforts to modernise, simplify and digitise permit processes as well as work with a door and so on. Madam President, I would like The national food strategy was a very important step in increasing Swedish food production and strengthening Swedish food companies, from farm to table. To seize the full potential of the country, the focus must be on creating an innovative, sustainable and profitable food chain. All businesses, from agriculture to tourism, must have competitive conditions. There we see how the current crisis now affects the whole chain, all the different parts of these companies, in many different ways. There, we will have to contribute in various ways by considering what regulatory simplifications should be made during this time. What measures and actions are needed on the part of the authorities, but of course also on the part of us as individuals? From the Center Party we have a long motion in this area. Today, we are really just going to debate animal welfare. However, I would like to paint at the beginning with a little bigger brush strokes. But, of course, I will concentrate on the re reservations that we have in this report. First of all, we believe that there is a need for harmonisation of animal welfare legislation within the EU, just as some previous speakers have mentioned. To improve the competitiveness of green industries, reasonable rules of play are needed across Europe. Therefore, the objective should be a common general animal welfare legislation at EU level covering all species and ensuring that EU-wide animal protection is raised to at least Swedish level. This enables all consumers to rely on the food that we consume and that has been produced in the various countries of the European Union. It is true that different parts of our continent, but also the entire globe, provide various agricultural products? And there is a joy and gain in eating the locally grown but sometimes also getting to treat themselves to something a little more exotic and imported. We also want our food businesses to be able to devote a great deal of time to exporting safe food to other countries. The reservation that I supported concerns antibiotics. Antibiotic resistance is one of the biggest global threats to our health. Many years of extensive use of antibiotics in both health care and livestock farming have led to a situation where antibiotics may be losing their strength. The basic problem is that antibiotics are prescribed too generously, not least in animal husbandry. Resistant bacteria can spread between humans and animals and then spread into the environment or via food. With increased resistance, it can become more difficult, or even impossible, to treat diseases that we take for granted today that we can easily get rid of. Preventing the development of antibiotic resistance and the spread of resistant bacteria requires work at all levels – local, regional, national, EU and global. There is a need for commitment and cooperation from all actors. And since antibiotic resistance is spread among humans and animals, efforts are needed in both health care and animal husbandry. We really need to work at a global level to combat antibiotic resistance. Another aspect that we would like to highlight concerns the organisation of animal welfare controls. Many animal producers in Sweden state that they feel a concern in contact with the county administration's animal welfare controls. In addition to the fact that individual officials have a significant impact on individual companies, there are also significant variations between counties in the assessment of controls. With a more goal-driven regulatory framework, it becomes even more important with controllers who have knowledge and experience of the animals of the farm in order to be able to make wise balances where both owners and controllers can feel mutual respect and security. The government should therefore look at the advantages and disadvantages of pooling animal welfare control in its own organisation in order to ensure legal and equivalent controls throughout the country. The aim and aim of Swedish animal welfare legislation should be to ensure that animals are healthy and healthy. As we all know, the aim can be achieved in different ways. That is why we want to see more results-driven rules that ensure animal welfare, although the way there may vary. One example of this could be the Swedish Board of Agriculture's modernised rules regarding grazing requirements from 2016 to increase flexibility. It was welcome, but now it is also important to follow up the results in order to see how it could be transferred to other parts as well. It concerns both animal welfare and the impact of legislation on farmers' competitiveness and profitability. Madam President, I would like I shall highlight one final point. With the advent of the new EU Animal Health Regulation, there is a clear risk that Sweden will lose the right to have specific rules of entry for live animals. At EU entry, we received an exception which, unfortunately, was not permanent. I will not go into the details, but without the possibility of requesting sampling, the possibilities of preserving Sweden's good animal health situation are seriously hampered. Sweden therefore needs to continue to work strongly for the right to impose requirements on the sampling of live animals in order to stop infection from entering the country. Madam President, I would like In the crisis that we are now experiencing, I see major challenges for the coming spring use and opportunities to supply the green industries that are now entering the peak season. Here, we all need to do everything we can to make it easier for the whole food chain to operate fully, in different ways, but not least the government. A couple of years ago, we saw how the drought affected and was a great strain. The Corona crisis will now be much greater. It is a crisis for the whole of society, and it is extremely important that health care works. But in the longer term, food security is also one of the most critical elements to be secured.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-559	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 6. I would like to begin my speech by addressing all of Sweden's farmers. Thank you for doing the important work of producing food for us consumers! Without your toil, there would be no food on our table. Without farmers, no food. Thank you very much. That our self-sufficiency in food is at bottom levels, I have talked about before in this House, last week at the latest. However, it can be repeated. In fact, we are only self-sufficient in wheat flour, sugar and carrots, so we can make a good carrot cake. It is incredible that we have to repeat this. We are in a crisis for our country. The shelves for certain foods are empty in the grocery stores. I think there are many who are now beginning to think about the concept just in time and that this may not always work. To think that it is all right, as we say in Ödeshög, is not enough either, but we as a country must increase our self-sufficiency in food. It is an absolute must, we mean Christian Democrats. Then we must ensure that farmers do not stop, as they are today. Between four and five dairy farmers end each week. Why? Well, profitability is too bad. Profitability and competitiveness are by far the most important issues for the country's farmers. Here the government and its partners have a great responsibility to produce proposals that make a difference at farm level. Madam President, I would like When other countries have enormous concerns about farmers overusing antibiotics in animal husbandry, this is not our concern. On the contrary – Sweden's farmers are world leaders when it comes to using the least antibiotics. Many thanks for that! Swedish farmers have shown that it is possible to radically reduce antibiotics in animal husbandry. There is now a need for harmonisation within the EU, so that Sweden's way of dealing with antibiotics becomes the EU's guideline to reduce the huge concerns with resistant bacteria. Madam President, I would like I meet many farmers around Sweden. Many of them say that we have the toughest animal rules in the world, and that it is good, but that this is not noticeable when it comes to getting paid for their products. They're absolutely right about that. Our farmers will compete with farmers in the rest of the EU, who have completely different requirements and conditions, for example regarding diesel tax. We have an environmental code in Sweden that says that agriculture is environmentally hazardous activity. Another example is milk production. Here Sweden as the only country in the EU has a grazing requirement. The stables today do not look like the barns did when the law came about over 30 years ago. The Competitiveness Investigator Denneberg concluded that this is something that should be reviewed. For example, our Swedish dairy farmers do not receive compensation as dairy farmers in the rest of the EU precisely because we have made such demands on them. We in the Christian Democrats believe that an investigation should be set up to review grazing legislation and its impact on animal welfare and the competitiveness of Swedish dairy farmers.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-568	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that we have this debate today and that we have time to talk about it properly. This is a debate on animal welfare. There is much to be said, not least in these days when everyone's thoughts really revolve around the corona. That's what we're thinking. We are thinking about how we ourselves, our loved ones and society will get away from this pandemic, which has now also affected our country. The Corona crisis is a crisis for humanity and a crisis for the economy, but it is also a crisis for animal welfare. It was because of poor animal welfare that the Corona epidemic came about from the beginning. It is important to remember that this is essentially about animal welfare. Since this issue is so topical, I am very pleased that we are having this debate today. Let us talk about this, and let us talk about how we can ensure that this does not happen again. Let us talk about how we can ensure that this type of pandemic, or other life-threatening diseases, will not spread and threaten the survival of mankind in the long term. If we ask today the WHO, or indeed the UN, what are the major dangers to humanity in the long term, we will of course have the answer that it is climate change that is the overriding and what everyone is concerned about. We also hear about the loss of biodiversity. But then comes antibiotic resistance, which can create even worse pandemics than what we are seeing right now. I'll get back to antibiotic resistance. The corona epidemic we see is said, at least according to the research results that exist so far, to come from an animal market in Wuhan. Everyone knows this. What is important to remember to talk about is that it probably came from bats, according to what the scientists and doctors who have looked at this have been able to see. Spilling from bats came down on the little cute animal anthog, which was found at the animal market. From the anthog it somehow spread to man, and then it spread from man to man. Wuhan's animal market hardly had good animal welfare. There were open cages, and there were small birds and bats up in the roofs. Spilling came down and spread among all sorts of animals, both exotic animals taken from all corners of the world to this kind of market and common domesticated animals such as pigs and chickens. Here all sorts of bacteria and viruses were mixed in a very irresponsible way. Basically, if Wuhan's animal market – and for that matter other animal markets and other animal management in the world – had had good animal welfare, we would probably not have had the pandemic that we are now facing. It is important for Parliament to discuss this even after the debate we are having at the moment. Now it is of course the Swedish animal welfare we are talking about, but these things belong together. The world is globalised. If this had happened 100 years ago – or if, for example, it had been for the Spanish flu – it would not have spread in the same way at all, but today it will spread within just a few days. From Wuhan, which is a very large and international city, it spread quickly in China and then in the world. Let us remember this, and so let us also see our role in it. What can Sweden's role be in this? Of course, we are going to deal with this corona epidemic right now, but what could be our role in dealing with this in the long term? The use of antibiotics is a matter of fact that I think we should talk about, as well as how we can have better animal protection to show the way. We just heard the representatives of the Christian Democrats talking about Sweden having the best animal welfare in the world and that we are best at not using so much antibiotics. It's wrong, and it's a bit dangerous to paint a picture of us in Sweden being the best. We in Sweden are good, and we should be proud of much of the work we do. We have fantastic farmers. I myself am partly raised on a dairy farm and know exactly how it is done. But there are also many examples that are not so good; we also have things that we can do better. There is a country that has better animal welfare and uses much less antibiotics than Sweden. That country is Norway. Not far from here. It is easy to see what Norway has done better and what laws they have to protect animals, not least against suffering, which is stronger and which means that they do not need to use antibiotics in the same way. There is much to learn – let us also look at this in the future! Of course, I think it is important to talk about the problems that exist, but it is also important to talk about the solutions. Basically, of course, the solution for reducing pandemics – and for that matter, to create a better animal welfare – is to strengthen animal welfare. Several representatives who have spoken before me today have also highlighted good examples of this. We need to strengthen animal welfare through better regulation. We need to make sure we have healthier animals. We may also need to ensure that the animal industry we have in Sweden is not an industry as we see it today. Today, animals are products that come into and out of factories – not animals that live because they are animals. When we treat animals on an industrial scale, of course, animal welfare is created that is not so good, and there is also a great risk of various diseases occurring. One way of publicising this type of thing and improving animal welfare is public procurement. This is usually mentioned as a solution to a lot in this House, but public procurement is a great way. We do procurements for hundreds of billions in Sweden. The rules for these procurements – especially in the case of food – could of course be stricter precisely in the area of animal welfare, not least in the case of rules on antibiotics. Of those who today dare to go to the store, which one should probably do – one should not have a generally huge fear in Sweden right now – it is not at all impossible that many choose to eat a halloumis salad tonight. Halloumi has been very attentive, too much halloumi comes from Cyprus. In Cyprus, animals use 40 times more antibiotics than we do here in Sweden. Antibiotic resistance in animal husbandry in Cyprus, for example, is spread because of the multi-resistant bacteria and viruses and is fatal in the long term. It was a speaker who mentioned here a moment ago that some 25 000 people are already dying every year in the EU because of multi-resistant bacteria. Of course, this is something that is very dangerous to us and that we must take very seriously. You can have procurement requirements for yourself when you go to the store, but they are especially needed in the public sector. What else can we do? We should have strict import rules for animal products also from outside the EU. It's incredibly important. There is a lot of meat from all over the world that is consumed not least in restaurants but also sold in shops. The meat comes from countries where antibiotics are used almost as food for the animals to prevent them from becoming ill. But you don't give it to the animals when they get sick, but you prevent and basically feed them antibiotics. It is so irresponsible at this time when we see what it can mean. It is irresponsible to animals, but it is also irresponsible to humanity. What else are we gonna do? There are several who have mentioned that we should have tougher legislation in Europe. I share that view. It is important that we harmonise legislation in the EU so that we raise the bar, not that we in Sweden should lower the bar, as it has become in certain areas. We must raise the rest of the EU countries' animal welfare standards to the Swedish one. I think that is quite the way forward, so let us work for this together. I'd like to get back to the antibiotics. It is important to include the right figures. About two thirds, 66.67 percent, of all antibiotics used in the world are given to animals. Of course it's not serious of us humans. In Sweden, we use 16% of the antibiotics for animals and 84% for humans, so we are incredibly much better than the rest of the world. However, we still use quite a lot of antibiotics for animals, and that is because we have an animal industry. It's not like on the farm where I myself partly grew up, with about thirty animals, some chickens, some sow and some other animals, that were cared for in a dignified way. Today, instead, we have factories with tens of thousands of chickens and hundreds or thousands of pigs. Many of them live without even seeing the light of day until the day they are transported from the factory to the slaughterhouse. Clearly, from a human perspective, this type of industry is not very good. We must learn from this. We must also work for even better animal protection and an even better animal industry, if we are to call it that. I think it is better to call it agriculture, and perhaps that is what we should return to. There's so much I want to talk about here today. The amazing thing is that I have reported a number of minutes and will continue to talk for a while, because I think these are such important issues, not least today considering the Corona, that we really should talk about them here. In last year's animal welfare debate, too, I had the honour of representing my party here in the pulpit. The major dividing line in the debate last year was on the question of the testing of animal stalls. This is a question which I would like to come back to and which is probably now so topical. I find it distressing that in times when we see that animal welfare is more important than ever in order to avoid pandemics and antibiotic resistance, we have parties in the Swedish parliament – last year they got the majority in the Swedish parliament – who have the line to reduce animal welfare. I am ashamed as an elected representative that we have it like this in the Swedish Parliament. Some who were banner drivers for this were the bourgeois parties together with the Swedish Democrats. Perhaps the Christian Democrats and the Moderates were the strongest representatives of the fact that we should no longer have the testing of animal stalls. What, then, is the testing of animal stalls? As I said before, we in Sweden have in many ways an animal industry. It is not agriculture in the form that is seen in the commercials with the Bregott factory, where the cows are happy out there, but we do have an animal industry in which an enormous number of animals are present, especially pigs and chickens, in principle from birth until death. Testing of animal stalls means that before building these animal industries or smaller animal stalls, you should consult the County Administrative Board. The County Administrative Board then has information about the regulations and laws that apply, so that you can build animal houses that are so-called humane and where the animals need not be harmed. Animal welfare should be as good as possible based on the rules that exist in Sweden today. It is a very good way we have in Sweden. The LRF has promoted this in Europe and said that Sweden is a good example. After the debate and the decision against the testing of animal stalls last year, the LRF went out nationally in Sweden and said: We are not at all opposed to the testing of animal stalls. We don't think that's a problem. Of course you can look at how you can be more flexible and perhaps make the system better. However, removing the testing of animal stalls was not something that the LRF advocated. However, bourgeois parties have been self-imposed to remove the testing of animal stalls. Among those who speak about the trial, I think that the Swedish Veterinary Association is interesting to listen to. In the course of the debate last year, they made a statement on the testing of animal housing under the heading They wrote that animal welfare legislation should prevent animal welfare problems, protect our animals and promote good animal welfare. The trial is a review of animal stalls already at the drawing stage. The test is an important part of complying with Swedish animal welfare legislation as it prevents environmental and housing diseases and damage to farm animals, instead of the animals having to suffer or be treated afterwards. ..................................................... Of course, Swedish veterinarians also think that trials are a very good thing. Yet it became a political game around this, where some parties wanted to appear to be for regulatory simplifications. But this can in the long term cause both economic damage to Sweden's farmers and, not least, suffering among our animals. I think it is pitiful of the bourgeois parties. I think they should be ashamed and that they should withdraw the decision. They should also have written about this this year. This was last year's debate. In fact, I wanted to highlight it again, because this issue is still alive. I think that you as bourgeois politicians should be so decent in the debate that you can apologize and change when you have done wrong. In the debate this year, it is again, above all, the Christian Democrats who are the banner drivers for the deterioration of animal welfare – we heard that in the debate here just before. It is about the grazing requirement for cattle, not least cows. In Sweden we have a fantastic thing that I think farmers, others who work in the agricultural sector and we politicians should be proud of, namely a grazing requirement that means that cattle have the opportunity to go out in the summer. They have the opportunity to graze and follow the natural behaviors they have as animals. Our animal welfare legislation also states that animals should be able to live according to their natural behaviour. As I said, the code of conduct is something that many other countries look up to. They see Sweden as an example. Arla beats herself to the chest and makes commercials to show how nice it is to be animals and not have to live inside an animal shed for the rest of his life as cattle, but that cattle actually get out and graze and feel good. It's good for their hooves. It's good for their udder. It's good for their well-being in general. Not least, it is psychologically good for them to live according to their natural behavior. The Christian Democrats are the most vocal at the moment, but the Moderates also want to remove the grazing requirement for cattle. Removing the grazing requirement would mean an opportunity to stable our cows throughout their lives, including those who give us milk, and, for example, bulls and other animals that give us meat. What has been the good example in Sweden is that we have not had it that way. Now the Christian Democrats are running this. They beat themselves to the chest, think it's a good thing and that you in some way do Sweden's farmers a favor. According to research, there is nothing to say that it would be good for animals. There is nothing to say that it would be good for Sweden's competitiveness. There is nothing to say that it would be good for reducing diseases or antibiotic use. There is a lot of research that says the opposite; it will be harmful to our farmers, and it will be harmful to animals. I would like to hear what the Christian Democrats and Magnus Oscarsson say about this. That is of great importance. There is much more to say about animal welfare legislation. We have a lot of animals in this country that live okay lives. But we also have many animals in this country that live lives that can hardly be called life. It is animals that are bred only to be slaughtered, animals that do not see light and animals that in many ways live unworthy lives. I think we should continue this debate. In my party we are thinking a lot about these issues, not least before our own party congress and actually for every new parliamentary year. These are important issues. And because of what has happened to Corona, the questions are more important than ever. Let us continue the debate. Now I look forward to hearing the comments of the Christian Democrats.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-611	Mr President, I would like to As by chance Magnus Manhammar talked about me. Then I think I'll take the floor. However, even before the honourable Member mentioned my name, I was actually going to ask the honourable Member a few questions. The honourable Member talked for about 17 minutes about various things, and one thing that is interesting for me is the profitability of agriculture. How does the honourable Member view it? As I mentioned in my speech, we now see that Sweden is not very good at being self-sufficient in food. It's below 50%. And just as I did, we are self-sufficient in wheat flour, sugar and carrots. I mean, we can't have it that way. We have a poor level of self-sufficiency. We are working to increase it in our country. Then I would like to ask the honourable Member how he views this. We know that dairy farms after dairy farms are closed down. Today, as I said, four or five dairy farmers end every week because profitability is too poor. How does the honourable Member view this? How do we increase our profitability and competitiveness? If we are out in our country listening to our dairy farmers and farmers at all, we hear that the primary thing is that profitability must increase and competitiveness must be strengthened. What does the honourable Member say about that?
i-GB8WavRR3XJMBJZ2MGQCZj	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Magnus Oscarsson! Profitability is of course important. I think it is important for the profitability of Swedish agriculture that we have as good quality as possible of our products and as good animal welfare as possible. That is how we can compete. There will probably also be a great demand for it in the world, not least after the crisis we are seeing now. It is important to have good food which does not contribute to the deterioration of animal welfare or, for that matter, to poor health, either for animals or for humans. I would like to return to what this debate is about. It's not profitability, it's animal welfare. The Christian Democrat Member hardly mentioned animal welfare in his speech, nor on the subject to me now. Instead, it is about profitability. It is perhaps quite telling how the Christian Democrats view the issue. But profitability is also about good animal welfare. The question I asked and to which I would like answers from the Christian Democrats was about the grazing requirement for cattle, our dairy cows, for them to go out in the summer, just as we see in the advertising about the Bregott factory. We hope that it will continue to be a reality and not be banned, as the Christian Democrats want. There are some studies. Not least has a professor and veterinarian named Ingvar Ekesbo, one of the most knowledgeable in the field, gone through all the relevant research in the field and written a report on how the grazing requirement looks: Is it good for profitability? Is it good for the animals? I can get back to what he's said in the next line. I have some of his report in my toad. There is really nothing to suggest that it would be better to remove the grazing requirement and make it worse for our cattle and dairy cows. Everything suggests that the grazing requirement makes it better for them. My simple answer is that profitability is better because we have better animal welfare and work on good conditions.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-621	Mr President, I would like to I want to thank Magnus Manhammar. Magnus mentioned in a point in his introduction that I father with untruth when it comes to antibiotics. I would like to respond to that. I said we're the world leader. That means we're among the best. We're top three in the world. You mentioned Norway, but you forgot Iceland, Magnus Manhammar. They're actually the best in the world. But in the EU, Sweden is the best. That's what I want. That I would go with untruth is pretty strong words, Magnus Manhammar. Moreover, I do not hear an answer to my question, but you are just speaking in general about what it looks like. The question is whether Magnus Manhammar has recently visited dairy farms. It is important that we Members are out visiting various activities. For those of us who sit on the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, it is an important part to visit the farms. I may be visiting other places than Magnus Manhammar, but when I am out I notice that the farmers say that when the cows go out they feel worse in some contexts. Actually, that's the way it is. They're used to getting a certain feed. When they go out it is reduced, and they feel partially worse. It is not as it was before, when Astrid Lindgren wrote Emil in Lönneberga. It's a completely different time. We have new stables, and the cows may choose to be inside. Therefore, I think it is good to set up an investigation to review what is right or not.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-627	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer from the Christian Democrat Member. I am, of course, out visiting dairy farms and other farms and have done so in the near future. So I have pretty good control of it, based on my own childhood and how it looks nowadays. For that matter, I also have several friends who are farmers. If we are now to look at profitability, what is important for animals and whether they are well or not by being out, it is more important that we listen to those who really know than that any Member is out watching. Is it perhaps Sweden's veterinarians who know? Is it public research? Or is it SLU? As I mentioned earlier, Ingvar Ekesbo, who is both a veterinarian and a professor of animal welfare, has gone through all the essential literature and research that exists if not least the grazing requirement. I am going to read a quote saying that getting out on pasture is better for animal welfare and not worse, as the Christian Democrat Member said. I have vacuumed the international literature to find calculations of disease rates on stables and pastures, as well as financial estimates for costs of various diseases. It is about cows going to pasture, for example, getting fewer inflammations in their udder, fewer damaged teats and fewer who die prematurely. In addition, grazing cows become more fertile. And healthy cows are a profitable business. The farmer earns at least SEK 3000 per cow per year by having them grazing. The result runs counter to the Swedish Board of Agriculture's report that came last year. It has been calculated that grazing costs the farmer 1000 SEK per year but in those calculations has not taken into account the cows' health at all. ..................................................... The cows thus feel better by being out on pasture, not by being locked into a stable all year round.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-633	Mr President, I would like to At the end of the debate, I would like to thank you for a good debate. It is good to hear that everyone in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, regardless of party colour, is involved in the issue of strong animal protection. I would also like to take this opportunity, as other Members have already done before me, Mr President, to thank the health professionals and those who are now struggling in the crisis that Sweden and the world are facing through the Corona outbreak. I am also addressing the elderly who are forced to stay isolated in their homes in order not to become infected, as well as small businesses who are kneeling when people are afraid to visit restaurants or the like. However, I would not just like to express my thanks in my speech, Mr President. I would also like to make criticisms. It is not criticism of the bat or the anthog, but I would like to criticise China. The whole world – not only the Swedish parliament – sees and understands that it is the Chinese state and no one else who is responsible for the small businessmen who are on their knees perhaps not making the economy go together. It is responsible for forcing the elderly to sit in isolation, afraid of the plague that is spreading throughout the world. It is also responsible for the overload of our healthcare system and for people being sick and dying. It is the Chinese state and its lack of regulation on animal welfare and animal husbandry that is responsible for the plague that is spreading around the world, no one else. Mr President, I would like to It cannot be a better time than now to have a debate on animal welfare, as has been pointed out earlier in the debate. We see how a lack of animal welfare can lead to things such as Corona, as well as new bacteria, viruses and other diseases that spread and powerfully hit our entire world. How well you take care of your animals is a measure of how civilized a society is. How to ensure that animals are well and not ill and how to ensure that there is a food supply that is ethically reasonable are measures of how far you have come in your civilising development and how far you as a society have developed. The report contains a number of issues on which I attach particular importance. First of all, we have animal welfare itself. We in the Liberals want to see more and tougher controls. We want a tougher regulatory framework at European level. It is necessary for us consumers to feel safe. When we buy a product that is manufactured under a regulatory framework that ensures good animal welfare, we should be able to know that animal welfare is really good. For that we need controls, otherwise we will not have the consumer power and market-driven development to get, for example, better meat that we want so badly. I would also like to say something about animal testing. The suffering of animals in many of the animal experiments carried out is extremely problematic. If it is a measure of civilization how well you take care of your animals, it is also a pretty good measure of uncivilisation if you abuse or in other ways torment your animals during unnecessary animal experiments. I am liberal, Mr President, and am therefore hopeful. I believe in developments, and I see that the world is getting better. But it also requires political muscle, not just rules that govern and ensure that we spread rules that make animal testing more difficult or impose restrictions on when and under which forms of animal testing may be carried out. Research and technological development are also needed. I would like to say something about this. Right now, the world is in an important shift. Researchers from Sweden, among others, have come a long way in the technology called human on a chip. It's a technique where human organs can be imitated in small computer chips. In this way animals can in some cases be rationalized to produce new medicine and to test it on computers. This is absolutely amazing. It's amazing how the world gets better. This requires not only regulation but also investment in research and technological development to continue. In these very times, you may not need to think about antibiotic resistance in order to be sleepless. Enough with the plague-- the virus-- we have. But antibiotic resistance, which threatens to knock out mankind's protection against bacteria, is an incredibly serious problem. We in Sweden have come a long way, and we are good. Perhaps there are those who are better than us, and there are certainly those who are less good than we are. But from a political point of view, of course, we need to do more. There is a need for tougher rules, not only at European level, but throughout the world. We need to put pressure on other countries to have better regulations, to have more controls and to use less antibiotics. In this context too, however, I would like to say something that is very positive and gratifying. I think that, in times like these, we also need to have confidence in the future and get out of the gloom. We can do it with a little imagination and hope, as the example of man on a chip shows when it comes to animal testing. Quite recently, AI, artificial intelligence, has been used for the first time to find a new antibiotic. It's called Halicin. Researchers at MIT in the United States have found with AI an antibiotic that we have not previously had. This is amazing. If we invest in research and development in the world, we will see more of this. We will then be able to defend ourselves against some of the antibiotic resistance that arises when we do not have good animal protection. But then we need to spread good rules on animal welfare in the world, while at the same time investing in research and development, so that the antibiotics we produce are not directly ineffective because they are pumped into animal farming, for example. Mr President, I would like to Because of the Corona virus, we are in gloomy times. We understand that the outbreak was made possible because the Chinese state had a poor regulatory framework for animal welfare and animal husbandry. But there's hope. If we invest in research and development and ensure that we spread a strong regulatory framework so that more countries have tough controls, it will be all right. The world will once again move in the right direction. We're going to be more civilized. We will have increased prosperity. We will be able to drink a glass of milk and eat our meat. We will also be able to have pets in the future.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-647	Mr President, I would like to I would like, as many others have done earlier in the debate, to express my sincere thanks to the many people in health care, among others, but also in other sectors of society who are taking responsibility in the crisis that we are currently in. It's nice to see how society quickly adjusts and adjusts. It is good to see that we take joint responsibility for the continued functioning of society's functions. Here in Parliament, too, we are adapting. It is for this reason that I am now replacing Elisabeth Falkhaven, who would have spoken on behalf of the Green Party in this debate on animal welfare. I am going to talk entirely about motion 2857, which deals with the need for a review of the ethical review of animal testing and has been submitted by Elisabeth Falkhaven and others in the Green Party. Behind them are my own name, among other things. We need a comprehensive review of how the ethical testing of animal welfare works. This review should suggest what measures need to be taken in order to ensure the effectiveness and legal certainty of the ethical review. We believe that the current system does not comply with the EU directive of 2010 that exists in this area and does not actually comply with Swedish law. We are talking, above all, about animal welfare legislation. We believe that there is a need for action. Mr President, I would like to The committee notes in its response to the motion that there is a comprehensive and detailed regulatory framework and provisions concerning, among other things, the question of whether animal testing should be allowed and how these trials should be conducted. Yes, that is, of course, quite right and proper. We know that. At the same time, we know that several studies have been carried out which point to clear shortcomings, and these are the shortcomings that we want to be addressed. I will mention a few examples, but there are others. At present, only those who have applied for authorisation to conduct animal experiments have the right to appeal against decisions of the animal ethics committees. This means that only rejections will be appealed, never given permission to conduct research and experiments on animals. It is above all the Administrative Act that points to this. If we can get a review, we want it to be investigated what possibilities to appeal there should and can be for example for individual members of the animal ethics committees. They could point out, for example, that they feel that they have been overlooked during the meeting, that sufficient information for decision-making was lacking or that risk of conflict was not taken into account. Members do not have the status of a party today, as is required to appeal. Then there are the test animals themselves, which should reasonably be considered to be the opposite of the applicant researchers. Nor are they represented as parties with the right to appeal – in that case, of course, through some form of representation. Another example is that the law requires the Board to be able to assess the importance of the experiment and acquired benefit. For example, the experiment must not be an unnecessary repetition of previous experiments. An experiment shall not be carried out if it is possible to obtain equivalent knowledge using alternative methods, without animals. This part of the law presupposes that it is possible for a layman in such a name to understand what the attempt is, but also to have a history of similar trials or research. Then there is the moving concept of good, which should be balanced against the expected suffering. In order to be able to take a stand on all of this, it is extremely important that each animal can be monitored throughout the entire animal testing process and that it is clear what the purpose of the experiment is, what the procedures, the substances or whatever it may be and why they should be tested. This is not just about drugs, but often about chemicals, cosmetics and materials. We have seen quite a few examples that applications do not meet that quality. So we need to look at how applications that do not keep quality are to be handled, but also whether there is a need for measures concerning regulations and legislation. The legislation and regulation in this area, including at EU and international level, is based on what we call 3R – reference, reduce, replace – i.e. to reduce animal suffering, reduce the number of animal experiments and replace them with other methods. The researchers in the animal testing ethics committees can at best know, for example, which other animal methods can be used for the first two of these r, refine and reduce. Thirdly, replacing with other methods without animals makes it more difficult. The knowledge for it is lacking. The basics of the applications are scarce. This applies to researchers. Of course, it is even more difficult for laymen. This shows problems that arise when there is no requirement for 3R competence in the RACs. The law and the starting point for the three rs can then simply not be fulfilled. Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned earlier, there is plenty of support in research for what we say in the motion. Let me give you a few examples. A study from 2018 by Tjärnström and others shows that, with the current working method and with the composition of the animal ethics boards, the necessary conditions are currently lacking for a complete, impartial and equal ethical review. PerPer-Anders Svärd, senior lecturer in Örebro, writes in a report that some applications do not provide enough information to make an ethical assessment. Helena Röcklinsberg, Associate Professor at SLU, shows in a summary synthesis of several studies that the system does not really work. She points to a couple of things. It will be a too narrow cost – benefit analysis. It rests more on the potential benefits for man than on the suffering of animals. Replacement is hardly ever taken into account, that is, the third year that I mentioned earlier. Mr President, I would like to The 2010 European directive, which I mentioned earlier, explicitly states that Member States should strive to reduce animal testing. That is therefore the guiding reason why an ethical review of each animal test should be carried out. If the ethical test does not work properly, but risks systematically judging in favour of the applicant researchers and to the detriment of the animals – then as a country we have violated the principle of legality. It is difficult to carry out fair analyses of, for example, this with utility versus suffering, not least with the often inadequate documentation of applications and the lack of substantive competence of the RACs. How, then, are we in Sweden to ensure that we comply with the directives, laws and rules concerning animal testing? For those of us who have written this motion, the question remains, because we believe it is clearly proven that the way in which we do it today is too flawed. These need to be addressed. Either we change the system completely or there is a need for major changes in the composition and working methods of the animal testing ethics committees. The conclusion of my relatively long speech is that Sweden urgently needs to develop a national strategy and an action plan for how we should work to phase out animal testing, so that we comply with the EU directive. In that action plan, we need, among other things, a common national policy on how to work to make fair cost – benefits analyses. They should be done in the same way in all boards. Mr President, I would like to We have international examples to use. For example, the animal testing ethics boards in the Netherlands follow a clear template. If the work is to be done within the framework of the animal ethics committees, the RACs must have members with independent veterinary competence, ethological competence, ethical competence and competence on 3R and non-animal methods. The researchers responsible for assessing the trials shall themselves be familiar with animal-free methods. The animals should also have a voice. It's important. Animal welfare organisations must then be given the opportunity to appeal against the decisions. I would also like to point out that we are on the side of research. It is important to develop methods that are not based on animals. Other methods of testing medicines, chemicals and plastics are often, as has been mentioned earlier in this debate, both faster and, above all, cheaper than when animals have to be used. Let us work to find such methods! Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report. I look forward to the Parliament and the Government addressing these issues. They have waited too long, and the animals have waited too long.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-670	Mr President, I would like to In these difficult coronatides, the Swedish food supply has become the focus. But it is rarely that we think of the most important food, namely water. As an event, we will now address it in this debate. Water is our most important food. It is also a prerequisite for all life. It is, of course, like liquid, but also because it creates oxygen. Because did you know that every other breath we take depends on the oxygen that plant plankton in the ocean produces? That is why it is so important that we focus on marine environmental status both locally and internationally. It is perhaps not surprising, then, that the UN has proclaimed that there should be a special decade just for the oceans. It will run from next year until 2030 to focus on marine research. The aim is to improve the health of the seas. What you really want is to get in place a recognition of the important role of science in these contexts. I see before me a sea's own IPCC, which will be incredibly important research for Sweden to both contribute to and also closely follow. Increased investment in research and international cooperation is something that we Moderates often advocate. We do so in this report and in our budget. Among other things, we want to spend more research money on the marine environment and biodiversity. But we also think that the current situation, where the relevant environmental authorities in Sweden cannot even share research data with each other, is completely unmanageable and unacceptable. When it comes to the international work, we want to see increased collaboration with Helcom and Ospar. There are established collaborations between different Member States to protect the environment around the Baltic Sea but also in the North-East Atlantic. On this issue, we have the support of a majority in Parliament. It feels good, because we believe that this kind of collaboration is a prerequisite for us to be able to prevent eutrophication, toxic emissions and littering of our seas and lakes. Unfortunately, the government has not yet answered that question, and that is somewhat disappointing. Coping with eutrophication is extremely central. This is not least about the Baltic Sea, which is drawn with infinitely large surfaces of oxygen-free bottoms. The other day there was certainly some positive news. It was about finding life in the dead bottoms of the Baltic Sea. However welcome it is that nematodes have been found on the seabed, much more life is needed than that. Among other things, given the good initiative of the Alliance Government, LOVA, which is about encouraging local water management measures, it is very positive that the government continues these efforts and also reinforces them. Another problem, which is mainly international, is plastic litter that we see in the sea. No one can fail to feel disgust when you see the pictures or read about dead whales, seabirds or other animals that are autopsyed and then turn out to contain large amounts of plastic. It is unacceptable and unethical to the greatest degree. More needs to be done to deal with this situation. But we must also take effective action. This can hardly be said about the plastic bag tax introduced in Sweden by the January parties. Given that 90 percent of plastic litter in the world's oceans comes from ten rivers in Asia and a few in Africa, it feels farfetched that a plastic bag tax in Sweden should be able to affect it. It would have been better if we had been innovative and provided technology, other equipment and the opportunity to remove plastic litter directly from the rivers. Then we would have done more good. I hope we can take a look around that. Whether or not to introduce costly treatment of all individual sewers is also the subject of a discussion on societal benefits. There is a regulation which states that, of course, waste water must not be discharged from water-smelter if it does not have steps with long sludge removal. At the same time, however, the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management has found that the individual sewers, which are not connected to municipal waste water, do not affect the total phosphorus load in Sweden's waters and lakes to a greater extent than 6 per cent. If you think of municipalities' handling of this issue, it can be perceived as slightly unfair. Many times households are forced to join at extremely high costs for the individual property owner. It must be in parity with whether we are receiving an environmental grant. That is why it is very positive that this year the committee is saying that the requirements must not be as tough as they should be, but that they must be reasonable in relation to the benefits to health and the environment, and must not lead to unreasonable costs for the individual. I'm willing to do that. However, that statement also obliges and must be seen in the light of the fact that, as late as May 2017, the government stated that it would instead like to accelerate the pace to fix and replace bad sewers. They are probably important to clarify what is going on so that municipalities and others know what is going on. Another issue that should be clarified is what is to happen to the drinking water investigation set up by the Alliance Government in 2013. Climate change and the problems of drought and water scarcity in recent years demonstrate the need to work on these issues in the long term and, above all, the importance of ensuring water quality. We hope that when the government has a little more peace of mind in due course, it will return to the Riksdag to show how it intends to continue working on these issues. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for your adaptation to the difficult and difficult situation that we are now experiencing. This means that democracy can still survive in our country. I would also like to thank everyone in our country who, in various ways, helps to take responsibility and relieve the staff of care, who are doing an amazing job. The conclusion I would like to endorse our reservation No 13.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-683	Mr President, I would like to In this debate, I had intended to focus on a crisis situation in our seas. But it feels a little redundant to talk about it in terms of crisis when we have something else that is much more close to us and much more visible and direct. After all, we have problems in our waters and seas, and perhaps especially in the Baltic Sea. That is what the previous speaker said. Water is a prerequisite for life, jobs and growth and for recreation in our country. Today we have an extremely problematic situation in the Baltic Sea. We have an ecosystem in complete chaos. We have species that are disappearing. We have a fish that does not carry, and we have fish that are not healthy to eat. It depends on a lot of things. Above all, it is because there are very many of us who live around the Baltic Sea, and there is very little water flowing in. There are a lot of boats operating these fairways. The big question is: How do you solve the problem? It's complex. We have an environmental policy preparation that looks at these things. I do not feel that I know exactly what measures should be implemented, but there is probably a need for many different types of measures. Action is needed in all countries. We know that there are regulatory problems. There are many different authorities. We have different types of goals that sometimes resist each other. We want traders to have the opportunity to use our water – there regulations cause problems. There's a lot to do. I hope that all parties together will be able to come up with solutions in this area in the future. Mr President, I would like to I will explain a few of the reservations that we have in the report. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 3, which deals with the problem of unapproved sewers. This is an issue that we have been pursuing for many years. There are good points of view in the committee's majority text on it, but we would like even more clarity so that there really is a change. Municipalities and county councils have a major impact on individual households, especially in rural areas, who may not be able to borrow large amounts of money from their housing to meet the rules and requirements for water and sewage. The cost can simply be disproportionately high for individuals. A more flexible system must be put in place here, with each measure preceded by a cost-benefit analysis showing that the environmental benefit is proportionate to the cost. Mr President, we also have a reservation in this report on nanoplastics. As many will say today, plastic in our seas is a serious problem in the world. It's about big plastic, which we know is very bad. It is about microplastics, which we do not know as much about, but where there is hopeful research and advice from the WHO that suggests that it may not be so dangerous, which is a positive thing. But then we have the nanoplastics, and we know very little about them. These are the smallest plastic particles that we can't see at all. What effect do they have on animals and humans? We do not know, and we think it should focus more resources precisely on identifying what we know least about. With this, I intend to conclude the speech.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-693	Mr President, I would like to In order not to forget this in the heat of the moment, I would like to ask, at the very beginning of my speech, for the approval of reservation 15 in paragraph 11. Mr President, I would like to We are having this debate at a time when most of our thoughts are about emergency crisis management, about the difficult situation that health professionals around the country are facing, about the gratitude we feel for it and about the measures that we could implement in this Chamber to facilitate their situation. We are probably thinking of vulnerable people and loved ones who are at risk rather than water conservation. However, in accordance with our overall ambition and the President's stated desire for our work to continue as normal as possible and for us to be able to deal with urgent matters, I will not devote more of my speech to this, but I will actually focus on what we are here to debate, namely water management and water management issues. Mr President, I would like to For the Center Party, water issues revolve around protecting nature and the environment, the nature that we use and that we manage for future generations. It is about protecting the conditions for a safe and stable community building in the future, and it is about being able to have a crisis preparedness at a time when extreme weather, extreme rainfall and extreme drought will confront us with challenges that we as a society are not used to dealing with. It is precisely these things that I would like to address in my speech – and the measures that the Center Party currently sees that we can implement in order to better address these challenges, new as well as old. I'll start with emergency preparedness. It is something that may seem a little more distant these days but which, given the events of recent years, has probably been quite close to us. We have seen in recent years that we are not in every way well sent to deal with periods of extreme drought. There will be enormous challenges for the fight against fire and for agriculture. Part of being able to build a better preparedness in the future is about having another water management. It is about working in a more active way with water management. It is also about actually realizing that we come from a situation where we have built society and used the landscape to get rid of water as quickly as possible. Sweden is historically a water-sick country. We've drained. We've been ditching. We have done everything we can to remove the water as quickly as possible. All of a sudden, we are in a situation where that logic is not as obvious. We are in a position where we may want to see reservoirs of standing water also in the interior for firefighting, for the needs of agriculture, but also to be able to slow down the eutrophication that we know is a problem when we are going to be able to reverse the situation of the Baltic Sea and the West Sea. This requires us to be able to think in a completely different way about water management. I am pleased, Mr President, that we have begun work in Swedish society to identify the places where we can recreate wetlands and where we can better manage naturally occurring wetlands. We may also be able to reward those places where we have an opportunity to adjust the flow of water and create artificial reservoirs and ponds. It is not entirely obvious that we should tear down the old dam. Perhaps there is a value in keeping them at the same time as we can handle the impact it has on wildlife. This is quite a big job that, for most people, I think, is going on in secret. However, I am very pleased that in the budgets that have been presented in recent years and in the budgets that will be presented during the term of office, priority is given to the projects that are under way to support landowners who are enriched by these efforts. This work needs to continue. It needs not only to be more voluminous but also more realistic, flexible and smart. Mr President, I would like to It not only strengthens animal life and the environment when we have naturally occurring wetlands, but it also strengthens our emergency preparedness. This means that society becomes more robust through the management of our naturally occurring resources. This is linked to the challenge we have with regard to the community building. We have an investment debt in the country as far as the va-networks are concerned. It is about how society handles waste streams, waste water and drinking water and ensuring that this is in place. It is a question of having good and secure access, but also of being able to deal with the situation when people have used water resources. We are in a situation where in many places in the country we would need substantial new investment and reinvestment in existing networks. Today's financing models are not able to solve that task. It is not currently allowed to fund funds in a va-collective to reinvestment. The funds we can put on high in the va-couplings and the va-collectors will probably not be enough to graze the investment debt and, furthermore, to equip society for new demands due to climate change, changes in temperature and changes in precipitation conditions. Here the policy needs to become a little more active when it comes to changing regulations, thinking about new forms of financing and thinking about collaboration in a new way if we are to gather the skills and capital to cope with this transition. Last but certainly not least, we face both old and new challenges with regard to environmental problems and the demands that climate change imposes on us. This is no news for anyone in this Government Ann Linde (S), I hope, what a tremendously strained situation our seas are in. I don't need to repeat the statistics we're looking at over dead bottoms and over the increasing spread of dead bottoms. But here, too, water conservation must be able to keep up. Here, too, we need to aim a little higher, and here too, unfortunately, we are in a position where we would like neighbouring countries around the Baltic Sea, for example, to be more ambitious. However, we must realise that action will probably also have to be made ambitious in Sweden, both to show an example and to develop solutions that work and because we cannot expect it to go fast enough elsewhere. There are also serious challenges that we have not considered before in history. I don't think we've really taken heights for what trouble we're going to have with the drug purification. Here we have not only something that we are used to, but actually something that is a relatively new challenge: to be able to clean out all drug residues as we see their impact on animals and the environment. We will also have to deal with this with an increased level of ambition. My time is running out, Mr President, but I would like to add one last thing to this speech. It's about littering and microplastics. It goes without saying that Sweden can and should make efforts globally to reduce litter and reduce the amount of plastic that ends up in the oceans. We can do a lot by working in development and development cooperation to spread examples of how to deal with waste so that it does not end up in sea and watercourses. I hope that we will see more of this from the Swedish side as we also develop a competence in how to spread that kind of knowledge in a good way. Mr President, I would like to However, this does not in any way contradict the fact that we also clean and clean and ensure that we do not have microplastics and litter in our Swedish watercourses. We do not contribute much to the plastic mountains of the oceans. But that does not mean that I want Swedish seas, rivers and lakes to be littered when we hand them over to future generations. Although we are in a position where much else is poking at, I realize that I have managed to talk at least a minute and a half too long about water management. I apologize for this.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-715	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats are, of course, behind all our reservations, both those that are being dealt with today and those that are in simplified treatment. However, in order to gain time at the vote, I choose to agree only to reservation 1. No later than 1 December of this year, the Environmental Objectives Committee shall propose a strategy for strengthening action on the conservation and sustainable use of marine and marine resources. For this reason, the Environmental Objectives Committee at the beginning of the year was on a study trip to Finland to see and learn from their work. One of the days we visited the John Nurminen Foundation and got us served something that at home in Värmland is categorized as cat food but that is now being raised as a good resource in Finland, i.e. roach. Of course there was a thought behind it. The roach can indirectly increase the amount of phytoplankton in the water by eating large amounts of zooplankton whose food is plant plankton. In this way the roach helps to maintain the cloudy water from which it benefits itself. If you fish roach, you also do the Baltic Sea a service. The problem, of course, is that if this is to make a big difference, we have to eat huge amounts of roach. I don't see that coming, even if this was a fun thing. Unfortunately, it is no longer enough fun to save the Baltic Sea, but we have to turn on the big drum and make measures that make a real difference. However, we must not strike blindly with the big sledgehammer just to do something and thus smash the existence of ourselves in the struggle. Then we'll have to start over from square one again. We must start on land and find functional solutions there, even here without blinding the big sledgehammer. Unfortunately, we have seen that in some cases, not least against private households. Mr President, I would like to Today, it is the operator who is obliged to demonstrate compliance with environmental protection requirements. In the case of an individual private household, it would be reasonable for the public to have the burden of proof if the household actually causes a negative environmental impact, for example through phosphorus emissions. In everyday life, the ordinary citizen probably does not think that private housing is an activity. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that there should be a damage element in the legislation on waste and the environment, which means that municipalities and state authorities must be able to demonstrate that there is an unlawful environmental impact before demanding that the individual property owner carry out an expensive investment. Expensive demands are made today on individual waste water owners, despite the fact that there are far more cost-effective measures that can be done. For the state, it's free to raise the requirements for individuals, as they have to bear the cost themselves. However, in order to achieve environmental objectives, it would be cheaper if taxpayers in the city and in the country jointly funded cost-effective measures, such as the structural calcification of arable land. Upgrading of individual sewers costs somewhere between SEK 10 000 and SEK 25 000 per kilogram reduced phosphorus emissions. In many places where the municipalities, with the support of the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, require the installation of new sewage facilities, it is doubtful whether there will be any environmental benefit at all. Phosphorus stays in the ground before it reaches the watercourses, so-called retention. The cost-effectiveness of measures in municipal wastewater treatment plants is around SEK 2 000 per kilo of phosphorus. There is a high cost-effectiveness for investments that prevent so-called silting, which means that the treatment plant emits water without purifying it. Investing in sewers costs about 200 000 SEK for the individual. For Sweden as a whole, the rules governing individual drains govern investments of tens of billions of SEK. It is therefore democratically reasonable that these rules should be subjected to political scrutiny on the basis of different objectives. Today, individual municipal officials make interpretations of a general law, regulations and general advice at the level of public authorities. Unfortunately, we are also dealing here with government activism, which would be tantamount to a debate of our own. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats want Sweden to lead the way for joint responsibility for the Baltic Sea environment. The Baltic Sea is a unique brackish sea with a special ecosystem. Irregular variations in saltwater inflow therefore lead to unstable conditions for the species present there. The slow rate of water circulation in the Baltic Sea means that toxins and chemicals do not flow out of the inner sea to any significant extent, but remain and are enriched. These circumstances justify taking particular account of the environment and wildlife of the Baltic Sea. In order to address the environmental challenges of the Baltic Sea, close cooperation between coastal states is necessary. Therefore, we should jointly and severally finance cost-effective environmental measures that benefit the common environment of the Baltic Sea. All countries concerned should also step up efforts to identify and clean up sources of dioxins, cadmium and PCBs. These toxins seriously harm the marine life of the Baltic Sea. On the aforementioned trip to Finland, we heard how the Nordic Investment Bank had financed, among other things, wastewater treatment plants in St Petersburg. Then we are on something that we should be better at, as I also mentioned in the budget debate in December. Of course, we will make changes and improvements at home, but it is shown that in many situations we get significantly more environmental and climate benefits for each invested crown if we do so abroad because we in Sweden are still very far ahead. It should then be a matter of course that we are involved in contributing, for example, in Poland, because the polluted water from the rivers where the Baltic Sea and therefore also Swedish water are to a large extent affected. The main cause is eutrophication from sewage and agriculture, and most of the pollution in the Baltic Sea comes via the rivers. 90 million people live in the Baltic basin. It is therefore important that the development of agriculture around the Baltic Sea takes place with great regard for the environment. The Christian Democrats see economic instruments as a useful instrument in environmental policy. We therefore propose that a system of transferable emission allowances for nitrogen and phosphorus be tested in the Baltic Sea. Although the discharge of phosphorus and nitrogen into the Baltic Sea reached its maximum by 1980, the inland sea continues to suffer from eutrophication problems. The recurring algal blooms affecting the Baltic Sea during the summer are a sign that the Baltic Sea is not well. 15% of the bottom of the Baltic Sea is considered dead in the sense that only bacteria survive there. Nearly 30% of the seabed in the Baltic Sea suffers from severe oxygen deficiency, and it is a surface that is larger than Denmark. However, there was positive news this week, as we heard my colleague Betty Malmberg mention earlier, namely that there is life in the Baltic Sea waiting for new oxygen-rich water. In the forest there are species waiting for a forest fire for them to bloom, and we can develop that, but how are we going to generate new oxygen for the bottoms of the Baltic Sea? More research is needed, not least, Mr President. Many environmental problems are cross-border, including the spread of debris in the seas. Plastic in the seas is a very big problem, as we have heard before, and the European Union is an appropriate level to act against the problem. Sweden should work within the EU to prevent the spread of litter in the seas. Plastic damages marine animals and litters the beaches. However, most of the plastic litter that floats ashore in Sweden comes from other countries. In nearby countries there are landfills that are substandardly fenced, which means that plastic litter blows out into the sea by storm. Plastic objects can move all over the globe, so the work of sanitizing plastics needs to be intensified. Here, the EU must use both whips and carrots to get other countries involved because we see that the plastic in our seas comes predominantly from large rivers in densely populated areas. And only ten rivers are guilty of 90 percent of all plastic in the oceans, according to the World Economic Forum. Eight of the rivers are located in Asia, and the remaining two are located in Africa. It shows once again the value of investing in other countries as it provides more environmental and climate benefits per bet crown. At the same time, we must clean up our own coast. Mr President, I would like to It is permitted to have several tanks in your head at the same time. Finally, I would like to join in the gratitude that colleagues have previously expressed in their speeches to all our everyday heroes who are doing a great job today in the situation that prevails in Sweden. Thank you so much.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-739	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to start by calling for the approval of reservation No 9. We are, of course, behind both our reservations, but in order for voting to go a little more smoothly, we choose to call for approval for No. 9. I would also like to start with some good news in this speech. It's necessary. I read just before entering the Chamber today that blue whales are increasing again. It's amazing! The fact that an animal that has been on the verge of extinction is increasing again is due to the fact that it has been politically ensured that there is a tough regulatory framework that protects the blue whales. That is, in any case, very pleasing. That is why I wanted to start by mentioning this in the debate. This news is gratifying because when the water – the oceans – is well, we humans too can feel good. We humans can't feel good unless the oceans--the water-- are fine. The oceans are the heart and lungs of the earth. The oceans are increasingly important for our commercial transport and as motorways all over the world. They are important as pantry for us humans. And now, in coronatides, it's important to wash your hands, even if it's supposed to be every other drink. Having said that, I want to go into some things we need to do to make the seas feel even better. They are crucial for our well-being as people, for jobs and for growth. But there are also a number of threats to the oceans and how we handle our water in the world. Mr President, I would like to There is widespread aggressive fishing, an unsustainable fishing policy, which leads to the risk of certain seas in the world being fished out and certain species are at risk of disappearing. Instead, I would like to dwell on what our reservation is about, namely microplastics and plastics in the sea. It is scary when the water, the lifeblood of all living life on earth feeds on, is contaminated by small pieces of plastic, which are so small that we do not see them ourselves but which can lead to enormous harm to man and to animals. It's plastic that eats its way into the food chain. When we engage in the important fisheries, when we engage in the use of the sea's resources and when we engage in the use of our pantry, the sea suffers this damage. Very strong measures are needed to overcome both microplastics and nanoplastics, which have also been mentioned here before. Liberals have been the driving force for a powerful policy for the seas for many years, not least the Baltic Sea, but I think that together in this House we need to take tougher action to overcome the microplastics. It is about better international regulations, and we in Parliament have taken precedence in the past. That work needs to continue. It is a matter of ensuring that responsibility is taken at all political levels to reduce the emissions of microplastics, for example at municipal level. There may be artificial grass plans that microplastics can come from. It can be about parliamentary level, where we make laws and decide how to handle different plastics and water. There must be responsibility at all political levels. As in any other development policy, more research is needed. Earlier in the debate, we have considered that more research is needed on how microplastics and nanoplastics affect us humans, nature and life on earth. Let me also conclude with a positive example. We need to create incentives and ensure that there is market-driven innovation, entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship, which helps clean water, which helps make our water use more efficient and less dangerous to the environment. There is actually one example. Before the debate, I read about a small company based in Gothenburg. The company has just recently launched a new type of washing machine. With less energy and less water, this machine cleans large washes – it can be hospitals, hotels or other businesses that use large amounts of water and energy. T ill rye on everything it also filters out microplastics. Mr President, I would like to We humans need the water. Our future can be secured if we together, politics and entrepreneurship, politics and society, ensure that there are tough and good regulations, tough and good follow-up, ensure that there are international regulations that are complied with, while at the same time creating financial incentives and opportunities for entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs to take the research that exists and turn it into practice and action, so that we can, with the power of the market and with politically directed incentives and rules, make sure to save the oceans – save our Earth's heart and lungs.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-752	Mr President, I would like to We are now in the Parliament House, on the island of Helgeandsholmen, in the middle of Stockholm, our royal capital. Around us flows Norrström, which is Mälaren's primary outlet in the Baltic Sea. Mälaren is Sweden's largest water supply. Mälaren is Sweden's third largest lake. Today, the Mälaren feeds about 2 million people with drinking water. Mr President, I would like to The Mälaren exemplifies what we are conveniently debating today. The water catchment area of the lake is large, about one twentieth of Sweden's surface. The water is vulnerable, especially when considering urbanisation, population growth and often conflicting demands. Leakage of local salts from arable land and individual drains sometimes leads to algal bloom, which interferes with the purification of the water treatment plants. Pollution from boat traffic and industries, stormwater discharges and treated waste water can interfere with water quality. It is important that we protect air, soil and water as a whole, because sooner or later the dirt ends up in our water. The Committee on the Environment and Agriculture's report on water conservation, which we are discussing here today, Mr President, concerns most of the dimensions that are currently passing by here outside the Parliament House. It's about individual sewers. It's about eutrophication. It's about microplastics and marine debris. It's about consequences for the oceans. It is about the need for intergovernmental cooperation, and it is about water supply and, of course, the care of our water. Our seas, lakes and streams give us life and nourishment. Therefore, the situation becomes critical when parts of Sweden suffer from water scarcity and lakes and seas are polluted and overfed. The Parliament has decided on 16 environmental quality objectives. Most are about water, directly or indirectly, and there are links to the UN Global Agenda 2030 targets on clean water and sanitation. Sweden is and wants to be a driving and active party on the international stage, within the EU, through the cooperation Helcom for the Baltic Sea region and through the cooperation Ospar for the North-East Atlantic. Better environment, cleaner water and seas and an ambitious climate change that everyone across the country can participate in is obvious to us Social Democrats. This was evident in this House in November when we laid down the budget proposal. It is good that the government is strengthening financial support for international projects around the Baltic Sea against eutrophication and for improved environment. The Swedish Board of Agriculture also continuously evaluates how the EU's common agricultural policy affects the environment in Sweden. The development of eutrophication is carefully moving in the right direction, including in the Baltic Sea. But there are still major problems in lakes, coastal areas and seas. Since about a quarter of Sweden's original wetlands have disappeared through drainage and cultivation, this also affects eutrophication. Eutrophication occurs as a result of excess nutrients such as nitrogen and phosphorus being washed into nearby waters. A broad range of solutions is needed to tackle eutrophication. Action is needed at the sources, on land and downstream, locally, regionally, nationally and internationally. It is therefore a good thing that the government has now paid hundreds of millions of dollars for efforts against eutrophication. It is therefore good that the government also invests in the rehabilitation of wetlands to secure drinking water supply, which also reduces eutrophication, and that the county administrative boards work with water management, liming, wetlands and local water management projects. Growing mussels and other so-called blue catch crops can help reverse the development of eutrophication by absorbing nutrients from the water. It is therefore good that the government is now strengthening the work both with blue catch crops and with measures against old discharges of nutrients. Mr President, I would like to Along the Swedish coast there are today 17 000 wrecks. Of these, 30 are considered to be an acute environmental hazard. It is therefore good that the government is now providing resources with the aim of cleaning up one to three wrecks per year for ten years. Mr President, I would like to If we eat fatty fish such as Baltic herring and wild caught salmon, we risk getting dangerous substances such as dioxins, mercury and PCBs. Unfortunately, up to the 1970s, process water from our industries was released impurely. So, to this day, many dangerous substances are still stored in these bottoms. This is why efforts to clean up are being stepped up. Even our medicines can reach out into the water and sea in the event of incorrect handling and there and then do more harm than good. It is therefore a good thing that the government is now investing additional resources in reducing the amount of medicines that end up in the environment. The government is strengthening efforts to protect access to safe drinking water throughout Sweden, covering the entire complex drinking water chain from groundwater to tap taps. That's good. Environmental monitoring is crucial for following and achieving Sweden's environmental objectives for our waters and seas, which is why large resources are also allocated to this. That's good. Another good thing, Mr President, is that last month the government commissioned the Swedish Armed Forces to plan and implement the clean-up of land where there may be traces of military practice. I am thinking in particular of perfluorinated alkyl acids, also called PFAS, which are used as an effective but toxic additive in fire foam. Where fire foam with PFAS is used, soils and water may be contaminated. This may later harm animals, nature and probably humans. Mr President, I would like to From P, which is the chemical designation for phosphorus, via PCBs and PFAS to P as in plastic. The January agreement between the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Liberals and the Center Party has its own point on how to prevent the spread of microplastics. This should be done, among other things, through the prohibition of microplastics in more products and the prohibition of unnecessary plastic articles. An investigation is in place, and legislation is coming. Sweden will also push in the EU for the phasing out of all disposable plastic. The January agreement's point for strengthening the development of a circular economy will also contribute positively to the work against plastic proliferation. Research for the future is ongoing. For example, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, together with the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, has issued funding to support research on microplastics. Formas finances research projects on microplastics and nanoplastics. The results will be an important part of future action. Mr President, I would like to We have long taken fresh water and clean seas for giving. Me and us Social Democrats work hard for fresh water and sea for our children and grandchildren. We want to see stable water cycles and a stable drinking water chain from groundwater to tap taps in the future as well. Finally, I would like to support the whole proposal in its bench and reject all reservations.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-778	Mr President, I would like to We now know that most households in Sweden are interested in food security. Drinking water, fresh water, is undoubtedly our most important food. Fresh water requires healthy ecosystems, Mr President. We must have effective systems to protect our ecosystem services, and an ecosystem service is clean water. I would like to draw particular attention to the important work that our county boards and regions are currently doing at landscape level in terms of green infrastructure. It is sometimes criticised, but it is an extremely important job for us to manage the planning of our drinking water. Climate change, we have seen in recent years, can lead to drought and water scarcity. But also flooding and risks to water quality can be the effects of climate change. That is why water issues are also extremely central to our climate work and to the work of strengthening civil defence. Pollution of drinking water is a very serious issue. In recent years, the substances called PFAS have been recognised. I had contacts with Uppsala water just a few weeks ago. They are currently in a very complicated process because Uppsala's water has been contaminated by PFAS from the defence facilities at Ärna airport. The issue of liability is currently being resolved legally. Uppsala water cleanses the water from PFAS, so there is no health hazard at present. However, there are still no measures to stop the spread of PFAS from the areas where fire foam has been used and is now introduced into the drinking water supply Uppsalaåsen. Uppsala water is a bit of an example. They have their own research, and they have only noticed a few weeks ago that more PFAS is concentrated in foam on water, for example in the wastewater treatment plants and outdoors in the river. This discovery may revolutionize and streamline purification methods in the future. I would like to point out that the government has actually been very active in relation to the PFAS. Should I read out all the measures, Mr President, the time would not be enough, so I will just take a few. It is very important to point out that the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate 2016 presented a comprehensive strategy to reduce the use of PFAS. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has carried out screening of PFAS in Sweden, and this work continues with great force. The Government is now also preparing the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate's proposal for national restrictions on fire foam with PFAS. Sweden has also, within the EU and internationally, worked hard to develop restrictions for the PFAS group. It concerns a total of 4,700 substances. Together with Germany, Sweden has proposed a restriction in the EU under REACH, which applies to all uses for a PFAS group of approximately 200 substances. I will also mention what Mr Selin mentioned, namely that the defence in the regulation letter in January was required to remedy the PFAS body, clean up the PFAS and be active in the work on the costs to society arising from PFAS pollution. In the budget proposal for 2020, the Government has increased efforts to protect access to safe water. But I would also like to point out an initiative that was made in 2018 and is valid until 2021, namely that the county boards have been commissioned to establish more water protection areas. I believe that we really need to strengthen the work of obtaining more protected water supplies in the future. It is an extremely important work in the long term; it ensures our drinking water supply. I would also like to highlight the important work that the Swedish Food Safety Agency is doing to coordinate the work on water in a very good way. The Food Safety Agency stressed when they recently met us in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture that it is extremely important to improve and speed up the work on the safety of drinking water. Mr President, I would like to Betty Malmberg from the Moderates highlighted that plastic in the oceans is an important issue to address. At the same time, however, she claimed that the plastic bag tax would be completely insignificant in addressing the problem. About 70% of the waste in the Baltic Sea is plastic litter. According to the studies made, Sweden contributes to the same extent as large countries such as Russia to the amount of plastic bags and litter in the Baltic Sea. Just the other year, Keep Sweden Clean showed that there are three plastic bags per 100 meters of coastline in Sweden. There are too many bags, and they will be fewer thanks to the plastic bag tax. The need for measures against eutrophication remains high. In our lakes, coastal waters and watercourses, especially in Götaland and Svealand, eutrophication is a widespread problem. The leakage of nutrients from agriculture to the oceans has been identified as the main source of eutrophication. The leakage of nutrients from agricultural production has several causes. The focus on agricultural production at farm level is an important factor. Every year, WWF awards prices to farms that try in different ways to help solve the challenges of food production in the future. Last year the price went to a farmer just outside Stockholm, Holger van der Woude at Yttereneby Farm, a farm with grazing animals and organic production. The farm is circular with almost zero nutrient leakage. Holger has worked hard with protection zones, catch crops and wetlands, and this has led to a significant reduction in the leakage of plant nutrients. When I met Holger at his farm some time ago, he said: "I don't feed my cows, but only hay and silage coming from the farm. I think it's because I don't have more cows than my land can handle that we managed the drought in 2018. As we can see, crop and animal farms are now concentrated in different parts of the country. The manure is not present where crops are grown, and the feed is not grown where the animals are. To compensate for this, large amounts of mineral manure are purchased for crop cultivation, and this is one reason why more nitrogen and phosphorus enter the cycle, with eutrophication as a result. For many animals there are too small areas, and eutrophication would decrease if farm animal husbandry were more widespread and to a greater extent remained in forest and intermediate areas. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal in the report. I would also, of course, like to thank all the people in Sweden who are contributing to the crisis we are now in with the pandemic.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-798	Mr President, I would like to At the beginning of her speech, Maria Gardfjell praised green infrastructure, and then we come into ownership. We have noted in the past that ownership is not always high in the Green Party, so I would therefore like to ask Maria Gardfjell: how do the government and the Green Party view green infrastructure and property rights? Is ownership and thus the right of use compatible with green infrastructure, or does Maria Gardfjell see that there is a conflict between them?
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-799	Mr President, I would like to Green infrastructure is a work that is common to the EU, where it can be planned at landscape level to ensure the green infrastructure. It is about values such as biodiversity and public goods, but also about the protection of water and such things. There is really no conflict whatsoever between green infrastructure and property rights. On the other hand, there is an important issue to be addressed in this context, and that is how we view our common goods. As for the supply of drinking water, no one owns the water; it flows in lakes, streams, rivers and soils and is purified in wetlands. It is everywhere, and eventually it enters the water supply where it becomes drinking water for us humans. Wherever the water is around Sweden's land, all landowners must be involved in helping to ensure that we end up with clean drinking water. That is why we have an environmental code, and that is why we need to plan for it better. The work on green infrastructure is about helping landowners and contributing to their knowledge and opportunity to participate and contribute to our obtaining clean drinking water.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-802	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt that there will be restrictions. Maria Gardfjell is right that no one owns the water, but the place where the water flows out is owned by someone. Maria Gardfjell mentioned that landowners must contribute. Yeah, but who's gonna hold the wallet? Because it will mean restrictions. Is the government prepared to go in and contribute to the landowners receiving the compensation to which they are entitled when the state enters and points with all its hand at their land ownership?
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-804	Mr President, I would like to It is almost a fundamental discussion that we should have about the environmental code. All legislation is, of course, in one way or another, a restriction on ownership. As for our public property, such as water, clean air and such things, no one owns them, but they are our joint responsibility. Then landowners, companies and individuals must also be involved in helping to ensure that we continue to have clean water.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-806	Mr President, I would like to I was apostrophated by Maria Gardfjell when it comes to the plastic bag tax, and so I chose to take a line. Maria Gardfjell and I share an interest in facts and research. Maria Gardfjell read out a few things about what it looks like in the Baltic Sea. I have not seen that kind of data before, but data that really flourishes in the media and that should be coated is about 90% of the plastic litter that we find in the oceans emanating from ten rivers, most of which in Asia and a few in Africa. Ten rivers! What is also interesting is that 80 per cent of the Swedish plastic bags, which are now subject to tax, are made of biodegradable materials and made from renewable materials. This is something on which we have invested research funding. Thus, 20% of the bags are of fossil origin. Plastic bags also decreased by 20 percent when trade started asking if you need a bag or not. Thus, consumption of plastic bags has fallen by 20 percent. What is worse is that you have to bring 40 fossilized plastic bags tax-free across the border. These are also facts, Maria Gardfjell. I would like to have a response to this and also to the study that shows that an organic cotton bag must be used 20 000 times to correspond to the plastic bag.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-810	Mr President, I would like to I can begin by replying to the last, that a cotton bag would have to be used 20 000 times. These figures have recently been strongly questioned. Above all, there are no households in Sweden that need to buy any new bags, but the vast majority of households have just enough bags, both plastic bags and other bags, as it is today and can use them for example when shopping. If you use what you already have, the emissions will be zero. Betty Malmberg raised the question that ten rivers in Asia and Africa account for a large part of the plastic litter in the oceans. This is absolutely true, but when I was talking about plastic litter, I was talking about the Baltic Sea. It is interesting to see why the Baltic Sea has so much plastic litter. There is a smaller proportion of plastic litter in the Baltic Sea than in other seas in general, but still 70% of the litter is plastic litter. Sweden contributes as much plastic to the oceans as Russia, for example. It is important to consider how trade in plastics might affect. There is a lot of shopping in garbage in the world. There is a new Convention called the Basel Convention. I very much welcome the fact that it has come into being, because it will regulate the possibility of dealing with precisely plastic litter.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-813	Mr President, I would like to When we receive answers, Maria Gardfjell questions the investigation that was carried out into the use of cotton bags. It was Denmark's equivalent to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that carried out this survey two years ago. Maria Gardfjell replied that we do not need any bags as we have enough bags at home. I don't understand how Maria Gardfjell brings together that equation and logic. I have to say that I am careful to pick up the bags I have from home, but in fact sometimes I have to shop at the store. This means that there will be a problem. Then I wonder if the bags we apparently find in the Baltic Sea are made of renewable material. There is an ignorance here among not least the Swedish people that these bags are not biodegradable. They cannot be composted, but it takes several years before they are out of circulation. I think we should have been informed of this. Then I would like to tell you that we Moderates are, of course, behind the international agreements that exist on plastic directives at European level and the Basel Convention on, among other things, the export of waste, but we believe that customs has more important things to do than checking whether more than 40 plastic carrier bags have been brought along. It is drugs and all kinds of junk that come across customs borders, and now a rule is being introduced that you must not bring more than 40 bags. I think it's a strange balance.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-817	Mr President, I would like to When I was a municipal councillor in Uppsala, I started a project called Hunting on plastic to reduce the burning of plastic bags with fossil material as a source in waste incineration plants. Of course, recycled plastic bags are preferable when using plastic bags. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that there is no such thing as biodegradable plastic. This also showed the large plastic investigation carried out last year. It is still the case that Keep Sweden Clean shows that the plastic bag is on the top ten-in-the-top list of plastic litter that is thrown into nature. There's three plastic bags per 100 meters of beach. This is, of course, a problem, and it will be addressed when we start using fewer plastic bags and perhaps take advantage of the plastic bags we have in a better way. This is what the plastic bag tax aims at. It is extremely important to remember that much of the problems with plastics in the sea are about microplastics. There is now a real need for strong measures to reduce the microplastics used in different ways in different products. But it's also about reducing the slightly larger place particles that break down and become microplastics very easy. I am thinking, for example, of plastic granules in football fields and so on. I recently learned that Uppsala Municipality has now made a football facility with artificial grass but completely without plastic particles. I very much welcome that.
i-d7bca48e4afebc71-822	Mr President, I would like to I am only here as a temporary guest and would like to highlight reservation 7 in the MJU10 report to which I support it. The reservation reads: Every four years, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency presents an in-depth assessment of environmental objectives. The evaluation presented in 2019 concludes that the rate of action needs to be increased in order to achieve the environmental objective No eutrophication. The lack of physical land measures is evident, and measures at sea are exploratory and knowledge-building but not physical. There is therefore a lack of physical measures to improve the status of eutrophication. The Government should therefore ensure that the water and marine management action programmes and the Swedish rural development programme are coordinated so that they contain the measures necessary to reduce nutrient inputs to levels that enable a water environment free from eutrophication. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I want to thank you for letting me make my little record here and wish everyone a good day.
