i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-28	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl believes that when financial crisis aid has been developed, commercial partnerships and limited partnerships have been squeezed. Edward Riedl has therefore asked the Minister for Finance whether she shares this picture of the problem and its seriousness, and how the Minister wishes to resolve it. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Madam President, I would like It is a very difficult situation for the country's entrepreneurs to operate in the difficult circumstances of the current pandemic, especially when you run a business where people are supposed to deal with people. The government has put in place several measures to help entrepreneurs in the context of the ongoing pandemic. Conversion aid based on reduced turnover, temporary rebates on fixed rental costs in certain sectors, increased provisioning to the accrual fund, temporary reduction of own contributions and deferral of tax payments are aid measures that trading companies and partners in trading companies have been able to take part in. Trade companies, like any other form of enterprise, can apply for these subsidies. The third most common legal form among applicants for conversion aid was just a trading company. Around 1 000 trading companies applied for conversion aid for March and April, which represents 6 per cent of all trading companies with a turnover of at least SEK 250 000 and registered for F-tax. No forms of enterprise are excluded from the aid in the case of short-term work, but like individual traders, partners in partnerships cannot be employed in the company. This means that physical partners in a trading company cannot receive support for short-term work. However, if the commercial company has employees, the employees may be covered by the aid. For this reason, the government parties, the Center Party and the Liberals have proposed new aid to partnerships with at least one physical partner. The aid for partnerships will be drawn up on the basis of the rules governing the turnover aid for individual traders. The aid follows the periods of the turnover aid and shall be counted against other aid. The government will come back in the near future with the detailed design.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-33	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. This interpellation is in some sense overplayed – thankfully, I can say. I'll get back to that. On 17 November, we Moderates, together with the Christian Democrats, presented a committee initiative in the Committee on Finance with the aim of providing crisis support for partnerships and limited partnerships that have not yet received the same crisis support as other forms of enterprise. I wrote this interpellation to the Minister because I know that during this crisis the government has worked very slowly with the previous crisis aid. When the Moderates have made proposals, the government has worked very slowly. This was therefore a way of putting direct pressure on the issue. On June 17, the Moderates presented a proposal in support of the individual traders. Shortly thereafter, a united parliament commissioned this government to return very promptly with support for the individual traders. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, this government chose to go on vacation. It was only in August, after several calls from the Moderates, that we finally stated that if the government did not want to participate in the work, we would do so directly in the Swedish Parliament. Then the government came back and did its job, that is to do what this Parliament has said the government should do. This made the government most reluctant, as I can interpret it. When this legislation was drawn up – that is why I recapitulate in this way – it was at least one of the consultation bodies that stated that both the commercial companies and the limited companies also risk being excluded from this legislation. Nevertheless, the government presented the bill that then came on the table, concerning the individual traders, based on what the Riksdag had ordered. At that time, together with the Christian Democrats, which I described from the outset, we presented a committee initiative in the Committee on Finance. A week later, on November 26, the government went out and said that it would be possible to do this. That's good. But my interpellation was written in this vacuum. In the knowledge that it took almost ten months from the start of the pandemic until the individual traders received their support, we chose to be a little proactive. Hence this debate today. My question was whether the Minister shares the problem picture and the seriousness. I can see that the government has done so, because we were met in this. Madam President, I would like The Minister writes in his reply: ..................................................... Madam President, I would like It was not the government that produced the proposal for this support, was it? You can almost interpret it that way when you read this. Rather, the government and the cooperation parties agreed to the committee initiative put forward in the Finance Committee. The important thing is that the support will now come into place. The question is actually settled. But could the Minister at least answer my question? Is it really the Minister's view that it was the government parties, the Center Party and the Liberals that initiated this support?
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-42	Madam President, I would like No doubt, since the beginning of March, we have been in a very difficult situation – difficult and deadly. We have seen that a large number of people have had to put their lives into this pandemic after suffering a virus that spread around the world and also in our country. Thousands have lost their lives because of this. We have hundreds of thousands of people who have been affected, many of whom have also needed hospital treatment. Madam President, I would like In addition to the human suffering and grief suffered by many relatives after the loss of loved ones, we have seen a huge impact on jobs, employment and entrepreneurship in our country. We have seen bankruptcies, and we have seen tens of thousands more – yes, up to a hundred thousand – people becoming unemployed. This is a crisis that none of us have seen before. We have had financial crises, employment crises and more, but the breadth and depth that this crisis has hit not only Sweden but, in principle, the whole world with probably none of us have ever seen. Against this background, Madam President, this government has worked intensively from the outset. We will continue to do so not only to face the threat to life and to curb the infection so that people do not have to suffer unnecessarily but also, of course, to mitigate the effects on jobs and entrepreneurship in our country. This has meant that over the past nine months we have presented over a dozen additional budgets, in a way that no government has ever done before. We have put forward support measures to the tune of several hundred billion taxpayers' money, Madam President. We have made that money available precisely to ensure that the impact on jobs and entrepreneurship is mitigated as far as possible. We have done this because we need to stand together in a very difficult situation. I would have liked me to have been able to say in September, October, November or December: But that is not how it looks, but we are still in a very difficult situation. Therefore, the government continues to work intensively and has only during the past month presented a large number of measures to continue supporting our business community. It is about prolonging some of the current programmes – and screwing them up, because it has turned out that they have not met all the groups we want them to meet – but of course also about expanding them, because, as I said, we are in a very difficult situation. Madam President, I would like As a political party, as a parliament and as a government, you can choose to think about how best to pick short-term party political points – or you can think: This situation is very serious, so let us put party politics aside and instead help each other. Let us make sure that we do our best and our utmost, not because one of us basically believes that it is possible to erase all the negative effects of this pandemic, but because together we are going to do our utmost to mitigate the effects. I am the first to say that we cannot promise anything even if we do our utmost, Madam President. Neither as an opposition – at least if you act as a responsible opposition – nor in a government position, it can be promised that no one will be adversely affected during this pandemic or that all the solutions we get in place are perfect from the first second. I believe that everyone understands that this cannot possibly be the case, either in our country or in any other country that has been severely affected during the pandemic. Madam President, I would like Yes, we are making changes, and we will continue to make changes. We will continue to work intensively and ensure that with the common resources, which will of course be sufficient, mitigate the effects on jobs and entrepreneurship in our country. I also welcome the Moderates in that work.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-49	Madam President, I would like First of all, I share the Minister's view of the serious crisis we are in. I believe that all of us who sit in this Parliament, and also the government, share the problem picture. But that is not my question, Madam President. I also share the Minister's view that it is not time to be petty and take political points as an individual party or as a government. That is why it is almost embarrassing for one government representative to stand and say one thing, but still do the other, Madam President. In this case, it is the case that the government is consistently trying to evade responsibility for the spread of the disease. It does not apply to the minister who is standing here today, but it concerns his fellow ministers and the government in which he is sitting. When it comes to the spread of infection, Sweden has been among the worst in the whole Western world to handle it. What the government is doing is trying to blame this on the healthcare regions and health professionals – that they have not done enough and have not done their job. It tries to hide behind government officials instead of taking the responsibility that a government should take. It is not individual government officials who are responsible, but it is always the government. Yet government officials have been sent to communicate this. I asked about the financial emergency aid, Madam President. Those of you who listen to the debate notice that the Minister is trying very smoothly to avoid answering the question that I asked very concretely and simply, and I will ask it again later for simplicity's sake. As far as financial crisis aid is concerned, this government has taken on board what the Moderates have put forward, and that is a good thing. I do not criticise that; it is only that it has sometimes taken a very long time to take on board the proposals. When it comes to picking political points, this government has renamed the support presented by the Moderates. There has been a petty contribution to this. Some things have been delayed, with major negative consequences, and some support has been renamed. Our turnover aid became conversion aid, for example, and it is difficult to explain otherwise than that the government is constantly trying to take credit for things it does not do. It is petty, Madam President, and a government should be better than that. That's my point. However, I share the view of the Minister that it is not time for political bickering and small-mindedness. That is why this government should stop doing so as soon as possible and not continue to do so. If the Minister wishes to contribute to this, Madam President and you who are listening, he can answer the question I raised in my previous speech. It is very simple, and it can be answered by yes or no – if you want to rise above party bickering, as the Minister has just said he wants. Madam President, I would like Is it the Minister's view that it was the government, the Center Party and the Liberals who put forward the proposal for support for partnerships and limited partnerships, or was it the Moderates and Christian Democrats who took the initiative in the Finance Committee and that the government agreed to it a week later? It is a very simple question that can be answered by yes or no. Now the Minister has the opportunity to rise above the party political squabble that he has just said he hates and to answer the question by yes or no, Madam President. It is very simple, and it is also possible to follow in the Minutes of the Committee on Finance. Once again, Madam President, is it the Minister's view that it was the government that produced this support, or was it the Moderates and Christian Democrats who took that initiative in the Committee on Finance?
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-57	Madam President, I would like I would just like to remind the honourable Member that, as the honourable Member is of course well aware, we are still in the midst of this pandemic. It's in no way over. It is also a pandemic which, when it struck not only our country but many of the European countries, did so under great uncertainty – so much uncertainty that parts of Europe closed. Even the internal market with the free movement of goods and services, or for that matter for people, did not work. This, in turn, had an impact on our business community in a way that none of us have ever experienced. Factorys in our country had to close, not because they wanted to close, but because goods could not arrive. This was the case, for example, for inputs from France and Belgium, which forced Volvo factories in West Sweden to close. Hundreds of thousands of people could then be laid off by means of the short-term aid that we introduced quite quickly. In addition, Madam President, up to now we have launched a number of different forms of aid. These subsidies together cover hundreds of billions of taxpayers' money. It's gone at a speed that none of us have ever experienced... because it's been necessary. Even if you work quickly and try to work as quickly as possible, there are, however, a number of constitutional requirements on how a government should prepare a case, whether it is a budgetary matter or a legislative proposal. Many of these aids are different types of legislation, which requires that they be prepared in a way that is in accordance with the Constitution. Of course we have. As a result, there is a certain amount of time, even though this has gone faster than ever before. Madam President, I would like We're in a difficult position. Of course, you can choose to raise the tone and try to pick party political points, or you can make constructive proposals. We have been very clear from the very beginning: we are prepared to listen to everyone. We are prepared to listen because Sweden needs it. We need to stand together. Madam President, I would like When Mr Riedl says that it has been very late and very slow– I do not remember the exact wording, but in practice it is that everything has gone very slowly– those who listen should be aware that with taxpayers' money we have made about a dozen different budget changes over the past nine months with direct support of several hundred billion available to our companies and employees. In addition, some 500 billion more come from various guarantees, loans and more to ensure that companies that are viable do not go bankrupt unnecessarily. Madam President, I would like We will continue to work. In fact, I do not really understand the question repeated by the honourable Member. It is just as the honourable Member himself read out; I have no other opinion than the one I just expressed. I understand the rhetorical point, but beyond this kind of political rhetoric, quarreling and bickering, Madam President, it is important that we jointly evaluate everything that has been done during this pandemic. That is why – in order for us to learn from it – we have a Commission that monitors the work in healthcare and care for the elderly and hopefully also the efforts we make to save Swedish jobs and Swedish companies. I think that this kind of professional evaluation is a pleasure to us all, whether we are moderates or social democrats or if we represent another party.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-64	Madam President, I would like To those who listen, I would like to say that there will be no answer. We have a government that says that it wants to stand above party political bickering and that it wants to be constructive, but what it does in practice in terms of the spread of infection is to try to evade responsibility and blame the health care regions and the staff who work and toil and do their utmost to take care of the very seriously ill people who come into our hospitals. It seeks to transfer responsibility, although the government is ultimately responsible, Madam President. In the second part, this government is incredibly petty. You name emergency support that the Moderates put on the table and try to take credit for it. Then we do not recognise this in any way, but rather refuse to answer a very simple question, which we could do in this. That is not a rhetorical point, Madam President, but a simple question to the Minister: is it the Center Party, the Liberals and the Government that have produced this proposal, or was it in fact the Moderates and Christian Democrats who put it forward as a committee initiative in the Committee on Finance that you then agreed to? This is a bit important in the history description, and if you want to get over party political bickering, don't try to trick people into doing things that you don't actually do. After all, the government and the Minister have the opportunity to rise above what they say they are opposed to, that is, bickering and such things. But I do not think, Madam President, that we will have to face that minister and that government. This government and this minister have chosen the path. You're going to work the way you've done, that is, slip away from responsibility and be petty. I think it is a pity, Madam President, and I think that the government should work in a different way.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-68	Madam President, I would like This minister and this government will continue to work intensively to ensure that the infection is contained and save as many human lives as possible. We will continue to work with our common resources – with taxpayers' money – to ensure that the impact on jobs and entrepreneurship is mitigated. I cannot stand here and promise – I don't think any of us can really do – that we can thereby erase all the negative effects of this global pandemic, but we will do our best. We don't do it alone. We do it together with the business community, together with the trade unions and together as a country; I think that is the absolute best thing when you are in a very difficult situation. In addition, Madam President, it is not necessarily to point fingers at each other, but to learn both from the good that has been done and from the mistakes that have been made and the shortcomings that may exist. We can be humble and say that none of us have ever experienced a global pandemic in this way, and that is why it is very important to make a proper and professional evaluation. That is why we have a Corona Commission which is now going through the work step by step and reports. The Commission comes next with a report on care for the elderly, which is, of course, an area which has been severely affected. Madam President, I would like We're in a difficult position. We are a rich country with great resources. This means that we have been able and will continue to be able to make efforts. However, this does not mean that this is unlimited. If we had followed the actual proposals of the Moderates to spend 100 billion a month, as the Moderates proposed in the spring, we would have had a very difficult time making the efforts we are making right now. Madam President, I would like I think we have every reason to take this situation seriously and to continue working together instead of bickering.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-73	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me whether I think it is reasonable that companies seeking short-term leavement of five months are not even told by the Swedish Agency for Growth whether they can receive support or whether I intend to take any steps to change this. Many businesses and entrepreneurs have been severely affected financially as a result of the spread of the new Corona virus. In order to mitigate the financial impact on jobs and businesses, the government has taken a number of measures. The support for short-term work is an important measure to prevent redundancies and to enable companies to come back quickly when the situation is reversed. The aid has also been widely used. Since 7 April this year, the Swedish Agency for Growth has granted more than 71 300 applications covering more than 582,000 employees and 28.8 billion SEK. Madam President, I would like At the Swedish Agency for Growth, approximately 450 people normally work. Since 1 April, the agency has hired more than 110 people and lent an additional 130 people from other authorities. In order to meet the search pressure, the Authority has also prioritised tasks for existing staff, and the Authority is currently making additional staff reinforcements. During the month of October, a total of around 340 people worked with the management and control of the support for short-term lay-off at the Swedish Agency for Growth. The aid is partly a new system, which has been put in place quickly and which has helped many companies to retain staff during the current crisis. At the same time, the processing work must take the necessary time to examine and verify all applications. The Ministry of Industry is conducting a close dialogue with the Swedish Agency for Growth and monitoring the administration's management of the support.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-78	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As the Minister described, we are in a very serious situation with increased spread of infection. During the Christmas and New Year holidays, the health and care workers who have already taken a heavy load are likely to get a much heavier load. There are severe trials waiting to be able to control the infection. What I have asked about here, Madam President, is also about how the pandemic is hitting the Swedish economy and, above all, the Swedish jobs and companies. I asked the Minister two questions. As far as I can judge – the listener will have to decide for himself – he chose not to answer or answer any of these two questions. I asked whether it is reasonable for companies seeking short-term leave to wait several months to find out whether or not they are even eligible for this aid. The problem with this is not only the concern of entrepreneurs, but also the fact that those companies that risk and hope that they will benefit from these subsidies do not have to fire their staff. That is what we originally wanted – that employees should not lose their jobs and that employees should not lose their livelihood. We have said that the state should take a large part of this cost if the employer does not resign his staff. The problem that arises if you have to wait too long for the answer is that if the company is not eligible for the aid, bankruptcy is expected and all jobs are lost on the company. That is why this is a very serious issue. Madam President, I would like What I ask the Minister is whether he thinks it is reasonable that this is the way it is. The minister describes well how it looks. I have no other picture but that it is tough for those who are doing these trials, and of course they are doing the best they can. But the question is whether more needs to be done to save Swedish jobs and companies. On 7 April, we Moderates proposed full-time lay-off, and the government agreed to parts of this which became short-term leave on 14 April, as I can see in my notes. This enabled us to get this important support in place, so that companies would not have to lay off their staff but would instead be able to retain the staff. Even if they had lost parts and, for some companies, their entire income and turnover, the staff would still not lose their jobs. This is no ordinary crisis. We ourselves have caused this, as it were, in the economic sense, because when we are going to reduce the spread of infection, we are shutting down parts of society, with enormous consequences for companies. Then we need to find good support to replace them. The support that the Moderates produced on short-term lay-off, as it then became, is a good support. It has saved a great many jobs and made sure that Sweden has been able to steer away from what could otherwise have become mass unemployment, even though unemployment has already increased direly. My question, Madam President, to the Minister is, however, whether he thinks it is reasonable that there should be as many months as I describe in my interpellation before the companies receive an answer, because it risks ultimately leading to many job losses.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-88	Madam President, I would like Short-term support is very much appreciated by entrepreneurs, and I can say that we have every reason to appreciate it as a society too. According to Konjunkturinstitutet, it could have saved over 200,000 jobs relatively if we hadn't had that system. Madam President, I would like After all, we have been tried in economic crises in the past. In the 2008 financial crisis, there was no such support in place. This meant that many people had to leave work, partly unnecessarily, because they had employers who had factories in other countries with this type of support. Then you had to pull down in Sweden to be able to keep jobs elsewhere. It was against this background that this government appointed an investigator, Anders Ferbe, to develop a system of short-term lay-off, like many other countries, and to be able to face crises together. We had prepared the proposal, and it was one of the main reasons why we could get it in place as quickly as we could when the crisis started. As a result, we have had to screw this up, most recently in November when we announced that we will extend it further. We are still in a very difficult position, and we need to help each other. That's it. I think it is important to have the right facts at the time of the huge storm caused by this crisis. The main reason why this system was needed during the spring was not closure decisions by the Swedish government or parliament, but that many of our exporting companies – Volvo, Scania and others – ended up in a situation where other countries closed down. At first, there were problems in China with inputs that we could not have because of logistics problems and other things. Later it turned out that this was transferred to Europe, where many of the countries that closed had factories that produced inputs for our Swedish industries. Although neither we nor the companies wanted to close the factories, we had to do so because there were no inputs. That's why it was very important to have this system in place. Since then, the Swedish Agency for Growth has granted more than 71 300 applications. 582 000 people have only been covered in the last nine months. It has so far cost taxpayers 28.8 billion, and I think it is quite rightly used resources. Madam President, I would like What does the Swedish Agency for Growth look like when it comes to the application period? Let's talk about months. I looked into it before I came here to the interpellation debate. The waiting time for new applications was on average ten days at the first reconciliation, as measured throughout 2020. Three months after the aid has been granted, the procedures for firms which do not get caught up in any of the checks are fast. What kind of controls are we talking about? Well, Madam President, when you use so much resources, so much of the taxpayers' money, it is important that they go to the right companies, so that no fortune-seekers, scammers or even organised crime can easily access taxpayers' money just because we are in a crisis. This means that if an application is not complete or if you suspect that there may be a problem, you have to check it properly. Surely we must be in full agreement that when we use tens of billions of taxpayers' money, it is important that they go to the companies that should have them and not that they fall wrong in organised crime or with scammers.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-95	Madam President, I would like I am happy to answer the Minister's questions, although the idea of the interpellation instrument is, on the contrary, that the Government should answer the questions of the Members of Parliament. But, of course, I will accommodate the minister in the reverse order. I agree with the Minister, Madam President, that we should, of course, prosecute all the cheating, all the organised crime that is now trying to take part in these subsidies that are being put in place to save people's jobs. Saving jobs and companies in Sweden is what this crisis money should be for, not for scammers. We are in complete agreement on that. I am happy to answer the Minister's questions and, Madam President, would like a similar reading, as this instrument is basically intended. Let me begin by saying that before the crisis Sweden had a very high unemployment rate. After this government took over, from September 2014 until February 2020, just before the pandemic struck, Sweden has managed the worst in the European Union as a whole to combat unemployment. It says something about the problems with which Sweden has already faced this crisis. Therefore, we Moderates from day one have said that we intend to work constructively. We will put forward proposals at Parliament's table to ensure a reduction in the spread of infection, to save Swedish jobs and companies and to steer Sweden away from potential mass unemployment, if this crisis strikes our country in full. That's how we've been working throughout this crisis. We have put forward proposals. The positive thing to say about the government is that the government has taken on board most of our proposals. What the Minister of Economic Affairs now describes is that the proposal put forward by the Moderates on lay-off is likely to have saved a few hundred thousand Swedish jobs, and that is a good thing. It's well-invested money. Of course, I and the Minister for Economic Affairs are in complete agreement on this. The question then arises as to who has used the aid. Things have been a little different during the crisis. And I know that the Minister also knows that from the beginning of the crisis we have absolutely no other picture. From the very beginning it hit the Swedish export industry. However, as the crisis went on, many of the companies that had received the short-term lay-off aid lifted the aid during the summer because in some respects the economy had started to spin again. But the economic wheels had started spinning very unevenly. As long as this crisis continues – we don't know how long – different sectors of the Swedish economy will surely need this type of crisis support and other types of crisis support to survive. In any case, if the Minister came close to the answer that there is an average processing time that is relatively short and if that were the only answer, Madam President, I would be pleased, and all the entrepreneurs who are in contact would probably also be quite satisfied. Many of the entrepreneurs who have called me have also tried to find the Minister for Enterprise and other people in the government, without success. They have been in despair because they have heeded what we wanted, that is, not giving up their staff, but have not been told when the aid will come. Then they end up in a very strange situation where they risk bankruptcy instead of dismissals, and then everyone loses their job. Madam President, I would like My question was whether the Minister thinks this is a problem, not the average processing times throughout the pandemic, but that some companies have had to wait so long to find out whether or not they are receiving support. Ultimately, it is about saving Swedish jobs and companies.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-106	Madam President, I would like Sometimes you get the impression in this House and in the general political debate that the Swedish people would be more unreliable than other peoples in the European Union and that we would have much higher unemployment than others. But if we look at the Swedish people relative to other peoples in the European Union, we see that the Swedish people are undoubtedly the most industrious of the European Union. We have the highest employment rate of all EU countries. We had that before the crisis, and that is what we have during the crisis. Then, of course, a friend of order asks himself the question: how can we say that we have higher unemployment than many other countries? Well, it is because of the simple fact that we are also the most diligent people in the European Union when it comes to making ourselves available to the labour market, that is to say, the labour supply in our country is considerably higher than in many other EU countries. It depends on a lot of things. One can hide parts of unemployment by having a housewife system, something we thankfully do not have in Sweden for a long time. In our country, both men and women work, and so should it. Madam President, I would like Trying to give the impression that the Swedish people are more unreliable than others is wrong. Before the crisis, we had the EU's highest employment rate, and now during the crisis we still have the EU's highest employment rate. In addition, we have among the highest labour supply in the European Union. The more jobs are emerging and the more people who want to work, the better. But not least in situations like this, it may look different, because the unemployment rate gets higher when the labour supply is higher because both men and women want to work, which is fundamentally very positive. I think we can agree on that. So to the question. Would I think it was a problem if you had to wait for months? Yeah, of course, if that's what's normal. But that's not the case. The Swedish Agency for Growth, with the support of the Government and the Riksdag, has been able to handle a large number of applications and, as I have just read out, more than 71 000 applications have been granted since April. Does that mean that the ten-day average I mentioned applies to everyone? No, of course not, and I think we all realise that there may be several reasons. One might suspect that it is organised crime or scammers who are trying to access taxpayers' money. Sometimes it can be about something as simple as that the application is not properly filled out. Is this awkward? Yes, of course it's difficult. The situation is difficult for Swedish companies, the Swedish business community and Swedish employees because the ongoing pandemic affects our entire society and the entire world around us, which means that the markets we depend on for goods and services are currently under play. Does this mean that we are satisfied with the situation because we are down to an average of ten days before you get any kind of information about your application? No, and that is why we continue to have a continuous dialogue with the Swedish Agency for Growth to see what we can do to further facilitate Swedish companies and employees. We want to support both serious companies and make it more difficult for organised crime and scammers to access taxpayers' money.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-115	Madam President, I would like To those of you who listen: I have of course never said people in Sweden are comfortable. What I said but perhaps was not clear enough is that this government is extremely poor at combating unemployment, in fact the worst in the whole of the European Union. The Social Democrats elected Sweden to have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. The minister himself signed articles about it. This would be superior to all other objectives of a Social Democratic-led government. When the latter became apparent that it was not heading in this direction but was the worst government in the whole of the European Union, the government completely removed the target of the EU's lowest unemployment rate. Madam President, I would like My criticism was that Sweden entered this crisis with problems that this government has experienced through bad politics in this area. What was my question in this debate was whether the Minister thought this was a problem. The only answer I got was that with that average the government has no problem with what is happening. But this is a problem for those serious entrepreneurs who care about their employees and do not want to lay off them. They were happy when the government extended a helping hand so that they would not have to dismiss staff but instead could keep the staff and secure jobs. But when they call, they can't even be told when they'll be told even though it's been months. Madam President, I would like I think the Minister should look at this because it is within his remit. But here we obviously disagree.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-121	Madam President, I would like Undoubtedly, work is and will remain the chief objective of this government. A job means a lot to the individual. It provides self-sufficiency, freedom and a sense of need. This should not be underestimated. It is also about our society building on work. Our whole welfare model is based on being involved and contributing and thus being able to take part in the welfare society that we all appreciate. Before the crisis began, 300 000 more had a job to do compared to 2014 when we took over. That's good, but we weren't happy. We will always have to work so that more people can get into work, with everything that that means. Madam President, I would like This debate is about short-term aid and support for the companies affected by this crisis. Short-term aid is one of the most valued and for taxpayers the most expensive aid we have introduced this year. The vast majority of applications are processed smoothly; they are quite filled out and come from serious and healthy companies. As I said, the average time for a first message is ten days. Does this mean that everyone will be notified within ten days? No, there are certainly individual examples where this is not the case. However, painting a picture of the fact that this would generally be a matter of several months is wrong, and that is why I say that is where the cut is. Could we make the passage even faster? Yes, if we let go of all controls, it would, of course, be quicker, but then there is a great risk that both scammers and organised crime would take advantage of the situation and get a share of taxpayers' money. We will never agree to that.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-126	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me whether I and the government intend to ensure that revenue forgone for regional health care can be covered by the funds allocated to costs associated with the pandemic. The Coronapandemia is the most serious strain on health care in modern times. In order to limit the spread of infection and ensure resources for healthcare and care, the government has, in addition to the regular spring change budget and the autumn change budget, so far submitted 12 additional amending budgets, of which five with new funds to regions and municipalities. Thus, SEK 20 billion has been allocated this year in targeted grants to replace regions and municipalities for additional costs associated with covid-19 in healthcare and care as a result of the pandemic. In addition, 9.8 billion have been allocated to large-scale testing and detection during the year. In addition, the Government proposes that SEK 4 billion be allocated annually during 2021 and 2022 to support healthcare management of deferred care and continued care linked to covid-19. In addition, the Government continues to allocate funds to large-scale testing and contamination detection also in 2021. In order to increase the ability of municipalities and regions to secure access to good care, education and long-term care, general state grants have also been increased by SEK 26 billion for this year. For 2021, needs remain, and of the additional resources allocated for the current year, the budget proposal proposes that SEK 22.5 billion be allocated as additional resources for 2021. All in all, there are very large contributions, and in its financial report of 20 October Sweden's Municipalities and Regions writes: The economic downturn that began last year led to four regions raising taxes in 2020 and many regions entering 2020 with savings. Now, the assessment is that high general government grants, additional costs and sickness benefits combined with deferred care combined will lead to an assumed strong result in 2020. This despite a great deal of revenue in public transport and Folktandsvården. The forecast for 2020 represents a result of just under SEK 9 billion. This is a significant improvement in relation to the forecast based on the interim reports of the spring. ..................................................... In conclusion, I believe that the government has provided the regions with considerable resources to cover increased costs and reduced revenues in health care during the pandemic. Among other things, SKR's forecast also shows that the sector will be able to report positive results, despite the strained situation in 2020.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-132	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The staff who have worked hard in healthcare and care during spring, summer and autumn are now facing even greater challenges in the coming weeks. It is likely that many of those who have already done a tough job will have to work even more during Christmas and New Year holidays. That was one of the reasons why one of the many proposals made by the Moderates last spring was a corona supplement, because we felt that the staff should have been compensated financially. But more about it then. Even before the crisis, the Moderates, together with the Left Party, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, produced an extraordinary amending budget. In this situation, we added an extra EUR 7 1⁄2 billion because we felt that both elderly care and health care were underfunded in the budget submitted by the government and the cooperation parties. This was achieved, and we were able to begin to strengthen both health care and care for the elderly at the beginning of the year. Then, Madam President, during the whole crisis, we moderates have pressed for additional resources for health care, for protective equipment and for the corona supplement to the staff. We've been pushing for more money to get you through your business. I am happy to talk to the Minister about these questions, but the question I put to the Minister was about a very specific area. I will come back to it instead and hope that the Minister may have an answer there. This concerns the loss of revenue for the health regions responsible for regional health care, more specifically the smaller health regions with this responsibility. The larger ones had more resources to distribute when the crisis struck. Anyone who listens needs to understand how healthcare in Sweden is both organised and funded. Regional health care should be there when we need more specialised care, which may not be available at our own county hospital or county hospital. I am from Norrland and live in Umeå. There is Norrland University Hospital, where patients come daily. They come by ambulance flights, ambulance helicopters or various types of land transport to the regional hospital and receive excellent medical care. It is highly specialized and the best one could possibly get. But formally it is Västerbotten's healthcare region that sells this healthcare to the healthcare regions, primarily in Norrbotten, Västernorrland and Jämtland, except for the patients in their own county. In connection with the pandemic, there have been fewer patients in the overall healthcare system. Less attention has been paid to health care. What has happened to the small regions responsible for regional health care is that they bear the cost of all heart specialists, all cancer specialists and everyone who should be the best so that, when the Minister, the President or I get seriously ill, there will be a step further to where we can come for help. My question is: Is it reasonable for taxpayers in one of the four northern provinces to bear the full cost? Should not the government and the state, in this case, provide resources so that it will not be the taxpayers of a county or a medical region who will bear all the costs?
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-141	Madam President, I would like It is not an entire budget debate we are going to have here, although it is clear that much is now about the economy. Let me just remind both Edward Riedl and everyone who listens that there has been extensive welfare contributions since 2014, when the current government took office, and they have continued throughout, both the previous and this term of office. The advances in this parliamentary term are unprecedented, and I think it is important to remind you that the contributions that are now being made are truly comprehensive. It is clear, however, that the way they are used differs from one region to another. The short answer to Edward Riedl's question is that I do not have any new information to give today, but the SEK 20 billion that the government allocates to compensate for the additional costs that exist in the regions is of great importance. It is regulated how these funds can be applied for, and as far as I know, not least Västerbotten has benefited from these funds. Just the day before yesterday I think you got 128 million crowns, and then you have to apply further in the last round, where it is still not clear than how much everyone has searched and what you get. A change in cost adjustment has been important, which will allow those regions with higher costs to benefit from their population structure. There, Västerbotten has had a positive change: almost SEK 260 million in 2020, which will continue in the future. I think it is an important discussion on how to provide support for existing health care. It's organized in different ways. With regard to the regional health care that Edward Riedl is asking about, I am the first to say that larger regions would probably not have been a disadvantage. But now we did not get six larger regions, but the regions themselves regulate who to offer care and how to replace for it through the national treaty. That is what it will continue to look like. There is no need to change the whole regime that has been in place in 2020 in terms of additional costs. It is about SEK 20 billion for all regions, including Västerbotten.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-146	Madam President, I would like Before 2014, extensive resources were added to Swedish healthcare and care for the elderly. During the eight years of the alliance government, resources for Swedish welfare increased very rapidly. Since then, additional resources have continued to increase. I'm not saying anything about that, if we're going to look back. What I said was that at the beginning of 2020 the Moderates, the Left Party, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats stated that the budget submitted by the government for health care and care for the elderly was not well enough. That was before the pandemic struck. We in this House provided these welfare areas with about SEK 7 1⁄2 billion. My question, which I tried to describe, is specifically about part of the reimbursement of costs, where the smaller health care regions responsible for regional health care are affected. As less health care has been requested, smaller regional health care has also been requested. It is about how health care is organised today. We can have different views on how health care should be organised, whether it should be larger regions, smaller regions or just the responsibility of the state. There, different parties have different entrances. I can tell you what it looks like today. Tax payers in Västerbotten's health care region will take the entire revenue loss for regional health care in the whole of Norrland. I think that is unreasonable, Madam President. I understand that the Minister cannot give a reply here in the floor of this House. However, I had at least hoped that the Minister could see that this could be a problem and that perhaps we should look at it. I was a little hopeful from the start. But then I realized that the Minister did not think there was any reason to review this. I think that's a shame. The loss of revenue for Västerbotten is in parity with part of the aid paid. The other health care regions can cover the costs of regular health care and the reduced revenues of public transport, while this does not apply to the small health care regions responsible for regional health care. There are two such regions. Norrlands universitetssjukhus in Umeå is one of those affected very hard. There, Madam President, I think it would have been good if the Minister had at least been able to be open to the fact that there is a point in not a region's taxpayers taking the loss of revenue for the whole area. I hope that despite what she says here in the speaker's chair, the Minister will consider this. I know that her own party friends at home in Västerbotten's health care region are wrestling with this. I had hoped for a more positive answer.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-155	Madam President, I would like Now Edward Riedl once again mentions SEK 7 1⁄2 billion as that the great understanding of support for welfare comes precisely from the Moderates, Christian Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party. It was a pity that three of those parties, when they had the chance to decide on another job tax deduction for much more money than just the previous year. They had been of better use in their welfare. But now we're where we are. There have been 20 billion extra costs. I come back to the fact that larger regions are not an insignificant issue to discuss. Edward Riedl belongs to one of the parties that made sure that we did not have larger regions. Why do we want larger regions? Among other things, to share the costs that may be difficult to bear for individual regions. Now there were no larger regions. Instead, it became a question of regulating this between regions. It is important that you do it in a way that you feel works. If I have understood Edward Riedl's question correctly, the question is whether the government intends to introduce special support for Västerbotten's regional health care. I cannot understand the question in any other way. I describe the principles here. All the additional costs that exist are reimbursed by 20 billion. General government subsidies increase by 22.5 billion. There are 4 billion more for the care that is postponed that is linked to covid-19. It's a huge resource supplement. When the question becomes very specific about the regional health care of smaller regions, my answer is not that we will have specific support for Västerbotten's regional health care, although I am very impressed by the work that is taking place in all our regions and not least in Västerbotten. This issue is, of course, important for the regions involved in this cooperation to ensure that one of the regions does not bear the burden itself.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-161	Madam President, I would like The debate here is inconspicuous. We are told that the job tax deduction was problematic. I just want to say to those who listen, although it is far from the debate, that what the Moderates did was to lower the tax on ordinary hardworking people throughout the country. They received 400 kroner in reduced tax each month. It was nurses, teachers and many of those who go to work and toil. This government reduced the tax on those who earn more than $1,000 a month when the defense tax was removed. You can think about the priorities for who you lower taxes and why. But let us have that debate some other time, although I understand that the Minister would rather talk about something else. Madam President, I would like Nor do I understand the upset tone of the Minister. I have not asked for specific support for Västerbotten. I have asked whether the Minister would consider the loss of revenue in regional health care as it is organised in Sweden today. That is the minister's responsibility. It has a huge impact on the healthcare regions and, above all, on the smaller regions responsible for regional health care. It will be a health care region, in this case for example Västerbotten's health care region, which will pay for the loss of revenue for the whole of Norrland. You might think that's reasonable. I note that the Minister thinks so. I don't think that's reasonable. Other models could have been considered. But what I asked for was for the loss of revenue to be seen as part of the costs to be reimbursed. Madam President, I would like It has been on television several times by the government and this minister, saying that it will take all the extraordinary costs that arise in connection with the pandemic. But when it comes to Västerbotten and the other healthcare regions responsible for regional health care, the Minister intends to fail," she says in the speaker's chair. For a small health care region, the support that comes is great. But the loss of revenue is considerable. It should also be replaced.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-167	Madam President, I would like I think Edward Riedl is exaggerating when he talks about a windy tone. That is not the case in any way. What I'm trying to describe is that very large resources are being added. There are rules on how to access these compensations. 20 billion is a lot of money. Of these, 128 million are awarded in the first phase of Västerbotten. When we get to what is regional health care, we do not intend to make a new order and new structure. However, it is of course very important that the regions that together deal with regional health care do not place the burden on one of the regions. There is, of course, a common interest in that health care being maintained. I very much hope that there is a dialogue between the regions on how to ensure that the situation is handled so that it is carried together. But the supplements are extensive. They are really of great importance. That's 20 billion for additional costs, 22 1⁄2 billion in general government grants, 4 billion annually for deferred care and covid-19 care. That's a lot of money. We cannot say today how many additional amending budgets will be included in 2021. But it would surprise me very much if it were not also two figures.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-173	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has asked me what analysis I am making of the risks of Palestinian authorities paying compensation to Palestinian detainees who can promote terrorism and acts of violence. She's also wondering if I'm taking any action. Both myself and other ministers have answered questions and interpellations in these and adjacent questions before. The issue of imprisoned Palestinians concerns large parts of Palestinian society and is closely linked to the highly polarised conflict. The PLO, which distanced itself from terrorism in 1988, states that it pays money to imprisoned Palestinians and their family members on the basis that they should not be abandoned. In many cases, it is about survival in a society where few safety nets exist. The President of Palestine reiterated at the UN Security Council on 11 February last that the Palestinians should not resort to violence in their efforts to achieve peace. It is a commitment made by Palestine within the framework of the Oslo process and which we expect the Palestinian leadership to continue to fulfil. I welcome the fact that the Alestinian Authority has set up a committee under Prime Minister Shtayyeh to review the functioning of the compensation system. Sweden does not provide budget support to Palestine and does not contribute to the payments made. Of course, the Council condemns terrorism and stands up for the legitimate security needs of Israel, as well as Palestine. This includes, for example, our clear condemnation of Hamas' indiscriminate rocket attacks on Israel. The government is clear in its dialogue with the Palestinian Government on the importance of rejecting violence, hate speech and sedition. We have expectations of all countries. Sweden has never and will never accept terrorism. We are clear about that.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-179	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is clear that Sweden condemns terrorism and stands up for the legitimate security needs of both Israelis and Palestinians. Of course, I share that view. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also points out that Sweden does not provide direct assistance to the Palestinian Authority. At the same time, Sweden pays 22.5 million SEK to the Palestinian Environmental Agency. The head of the Palestinian Environment Agency was as late as October last year in calling for violence against the Israeli population and hailing Palestinian terrorists. Sweden is also one of the largest donors to UNRWA. There are several recent examples of how textbooks used by UNRWA contain anti-Semitism and calls for violence against the Israeli civilian population. Minister for Foreign Affairs' colleague Peter Eriksson has answered a written question from a party colleague to me, Magdalena Schröder, that the EU should conduct an independent search of Palestinian school books. Swedish aid should of course work in Swedish interests. It must therefore be clear to everyone that Swedish aid should not be used directly or indirectly for violence or anti-Semitism. Above all, there must be clear demands on those countries that receive Swedish aid to make a counter-performance. If they are not met, Sweden must be ready to freeze all or part of the aid – just as it has done for Belarus, for example, where Sweden so wisely froze the aid because the lack of respect for human rights was great. I therefore put the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: what are the markings made against the Palestinian authorities and, in particular, against their environmental authority?
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-185	Madam President, I would like There can of course be different views on the Palestinian compensation system for the detainees, which is what the interpellation is about. I am aware that Israel, for example, is critical of the system on the basis of the same reasoning that Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm describes, namely that it would call for acts of violence. Others feel that this is neither the intention of the system nor, in fact, has any significance for individuals to decide to commit acts of violence. However, it is important to ensure that the risk of such effects and interpretations is removed, for example by reviewing the current structure whereby the level of compensation is based on the length of the prison sentence. To demand that Palestine should not pay any compensation to the detainees and their families would not be reasonable. Compensation is a social safety net that goes, among other things, to families who may have lost their main income earner and to help those detained with reintegration into society after serving time. The actual situation in occupied territory in Palestine also needs to be borne in mind. Up to 1 million Palestinians have been sent to Israeli prisons over the years, despite the fact that under the Fourth Geneva Convention it is forbidden to keep people from occupied areas in prison on the territory of the occupying power. As I said earlier, the Palestinian Prime Minister has declared that on the Palestinian side it is prepared to examine whether the acquis needs to be adapted, and a committee under his leadership has been set up with that mission. It is good if this can lead to the regulatory framework being reformed in a way that does not mean that it is perceived as encouraging acts of violence. I welcome this message, also because it is an initiative that could possibly bring the parties closer together and strengthen the conditions for dialogue. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict has been going on for far too long and needs to be resolved. There is no viable alternative to a two-state solution. Unfortunately, we see that the two-state solution is increasingly called into question and threatened, not only in the light of the absence of a serious peace process in the form of negotiations between the parties. We are also particularly concerned by the continued and accelerated settlement, expansion and demolition of Palestinian buildings on occupied land in violation of international law. Sweden, the EU and the other international community need to continue to push forward in order to create the conditions for a political process that can lead to direct peace talks between the parties. Both parties need to take a step towards building mutual trust and contributing to a political climate that makes progress possible. The recent resumption of cooperation between Palestine and Israel in areas such as security and the transfer of Palestinian tax revenue, which Palestine suspended in May in light of the threat of annexation, is a positive signal for both parties to take note of. It is a confidence-building measure. The process that Palestine is now saying that it is starting to review the framework for assistance to the detainees and their families can also be regarded as a confidence-building measure. Perhaps there is a chance here to reduce to some extent the mistrust and distance between Israel and Palestine on this issue. Let us hope that this can happen.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-192	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for commenting on my interpellation. Sweden's assistance has enabled the Palestinian authorities in 2019 to pay the equivalent of SEK 1.5 billion to Palestinian prisoners in Israeli prisons and to be released. Compared to 2018, this payment has increased by over SEK 40 million. Although this does not constitute direct budget support, through Sweden's indirect assistance, the Palestinian authorities have the advice to spend 7% of their budget on paying salaries to Palestinians who have injured or killed civilian Israelis. In a newspaper article last spring, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has called this social assistance, which I think is wrong. It is very clear from Palestinian legislation that this is a pure wage, and the recipient also pays taxes on this so-called salary that the Palestinian Government receives. The size of the salary also depends on how many years a Palestinian citizen is in an Israeli prison, not on the family's social situation. I can give further examples of what such a Palestinian so-called "terrorist wage" means. A Palestinian citizen has been detained in an Israeli prison for more than five years. After the release, work within the Palestinian authorities is guaranteed, as well as being exempt from paying contributions for higher education and health insurance. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to be more specific in the way in which dialogue with the Palestinian authorities is conducted on the so-called aid that is given but does not really provide, especially on the impact of this indirect aid in practice.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-197	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has a number of direct aid-related questions which I propose that she put in an interpellation to the Minister for Development and not to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm also claims that the Palestinian compensation system is an incentive structure for terrorists and that the Palestinian Authority and the PLO would maintain this system in order to somehow reward Palestinians who commit acts of violence against Israel. This is a description that does not match the clear position of the Palestinian Authority and the PLO on non-violence as a political method. It is also a description that ignores the Palestinian arguments in defence of this compensation system: that the Palestinians cannot abandon the families of those detained who are often sentenced to long prison sentences by Israeli military courts, that these families need to be guaranteed income, education and security, and that after serving time spent in prison, efforts are needed to reintegrate those who have been detained in society. If this support did not exist, it is said from the Palestinian side, radical forces would gain further influence. Can't Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm agree that increased radicalisation would not be in the interests of Palestine or Israel? The government's conviction is that those who advocate or carry out acts of terrorism must be fought by all means. We need to strengthen the moderate forces in Palestine, those who reject violence and who want to see peace negotiations. That is how the government reasoned when Sweden recognised Palestine in 2014. Through Sweden's aid to Palestine, which is an important part of our commitment to a two-state solution, we contribute to such development. Our development support goes to actors who want to promote peace and sustainable development with a strong focus on democracy, human rights, gender equality and the rule of law. Strengthening civil society is a priority. It is clear that Palestine has a long way to go to strengthen its democracy and the protection of human rights. The fact that Palestinian elections have not taken place since 2006 is a major obstacle to the democratic legitimacy of Palestinian rule. It is important that Palestine goes ahead with the plans for holding elections, which President Abbas raised in his speech at the UN General Assembly in September. The EU, including Sweden, fully supports these plans and is prepared to assist in a way that may be necessary. The government also expects the future Palestinian leadership, which will take office after the elections, to reaffirm the rejection of violence by the present Palestinian Government, the recognition of Israel and respect for agreements concluded with Israel.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-206	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for all the answers and for an important debate! We agree on several things: that Israelis and Palestinians should live in peace and security, that terrorism and acts of violence should be condemned and that democratic values are important for long-term peace. At the same time, I note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not really want to answer the question of how the Palestinian authorities are held accountable for the so-called terrorist wages, which in 2019 alone amounted to 11⁄2 billion. In practice, terrorism and acts of violence against the Israeli civilian population are encouraged. Nevertheless, financial support cannot be based on the damage suffered by another person by the recipient! The Israeli-Palestinian conflict is complex. There is no simple solution– we are in complete agreement on that. On the other hand, with the so-called 'terrorist wages', this will be one of several obstacles to lasting peace. In my last speech, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for having received answers to many of my questions. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister to put it into practice if he intends to review the so-called indirect aid to Palestine and to make demands on human rights, as has been done with Belarus.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-211	Madam President, I would like Sweden is not giving budget support to the Palestinian Authority, so we are not helping to fund this compensation system, which Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm is so critical of. The government rejects terrorism in all contexts. There is no justification for terrorism. At the same time, the government stands up for the legitimate security needs of Israel and Palestine and for their right to exist within safe and recognised borders. Similarly, the Palestinian Authority and the PLO reject terrorism and pursue their fight for Palestinian self-determination and a two-state solution by peaceful means. There is transparency on the part of the Palestinian Authority in reviewing the functioning of the compensation system. Such an investigation has already begun, and I welcome it. It is undeniable that the continued occupation is causing widespread frustration and hopelessness in Palestinian society. As far as the government is concerned, it is clear that in order to reduce the long-term risk of violence, both against Israelis and Palestinians, progress is needed towards a just and sustainable peace based on the two-state solution. The two-state solution is certainly threatened and questioned, perhaps more than ever, but it is by trying to reverse these negative developments that we can help to create a belief in the future in Palestine too. Hope to see an end to violence and occupation and to believe in a two-state solution based on international law, in which the two countries of Israel and Palestine can live in security and peace side by side – that is exactly what the government's policy aims to do.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-217	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling has asked me what initiatives I intend to take to bring about a peaceful solution to the conflict in Ethiopia and what measures I and Sweden can take to stop the ethnic violence in the country. He has also asked me how I and the government intend to work to ensure that fundamental rights and freedoms are respected by the Ethiopian authorities and how I and Sweden can contribute to free and fair elections in Ethiopia in 2021. After a long period of increased tensions in Ethiopia, the conflict between Ethiopia's federal government and the Tigray state government has recently escalated. The conflict has so far led to a large number of dead, destroyed infrastructure and a very large number of refugees and internally displaced persons, most of whom are women and children. The situation is threatening the stability of the country and the whole region. The government takes this development very seriously. In view of the situation, I had a telephone call with Ethiopia's Foreign Minister Demeke Demeke on 19 November. Respect for human rights must be maintained. Both Sweden and the EU are calling on all those involved to refrain from violence and instead seek to resolve the conflict by peaceful means. On the issue of developments in Ethiopia, I have spoken several times earlier in the Riksdag, including in a number on parliamentary issues( 2019/ 20:967, 2019/ 20:1908 and 2020/ 21/144). We are concerned about reports of serious violations and abuses of international humanitarian law and human rights. It is essential to protect the civilian population, clarify what has happened and ensure accountability. The humanitarian situation is worrying. We call on all parties to ensure safe, rapid and unhindered humanitarian aid and access to all affected areas so that rapid and adequate assistance can reach people in need. The Tigray region is still off. Over 40 000 people have already fled across the border to Sudan. Reports on ethnic profiling of Tigreans in Ethiopia are worrying, as is the hatred spread on the internet and in the media. It is important that the Tigreans are not subjected to harassment and discrimination, which risks exacerbating an already serious situation and driving the population further apart. It is also of great importance that the international community maintains its commitment. The countries of the region, the regional cooperation organisation IGAD and the African Union all have an important role to play as constructive partners with Ethiopia in this serious situation. The UN, Sweden and the EU strive to engage in dialogue with all stakeholders and are ready to support initiatives for peaceful solutions. Our development aid to the country includes a series of efforts in the field of human rights and democracy, including free and fair elections. We also have a great deal of humanitarian aid. This remains important. We will continue to monitor closely the situation in Ethiopia and in the Horn of Africa, continue to engage in close dialogue with relevant actors in Ethiopia as well as in the region and actively promote a peaceful solution as well as full respect for international law, including human rights and international humanitarian law.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-227	Madam President, I would like I submitted this interpellation to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the occasion of the war started between the Ethiopian Government and the Tigray Regional Government. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. Last year when Abiy Ahmed, Prime Minister of Ethiopia, received the Nobel Peace Prize, there were probably few of us who believed that within a year there would be war in Ethiopia. We can now state in the rear-view mirror that Abiy Ahmed is not a dove of peace and that the chorus of tribute of him has indeed been ashamed. At the same time, it is clear that the regional government of Tigray, TPLF, has acted on the basis of its own ambitions of power and in response to its own lost power in the wake of Abiy Ahmed's entry. They have simply been used to having power in Ethiopia for over 25 years. During the November weeks of the war, the lack of information has been very great. The Internet and telephony have been closed down in the Tigray region, and day by day we are getting new information about the horrors that have taken place in the region. At the same time, the war seems to be heading towards at least a temporary end. The government force has militaryly defeated the TPLF and regained control of Tigray. The Ethiopian government's line is that the war is over. There is much to be said, however, that ethnic conflicts will continue. TPLF is likely to return to guerrilla warfare, as before their takeover in 1991. There is also a great risk that other actors in the Horn of Africa, such as Eritrea and South Sudan, will be involved in the conflict. Ethiopia has ten times more inhabitants than Sweden. It is Africa's second most populous country. The Tigray region is relatively small with 6 million inhabitants but has historically had a lot of power and a strong position in the country. Madam President, I would like I have not put this interpellation to the Minister for Foreign Affairs in order for one of us to take a stand on one side or the other of the conflict, but to highlight and discuss what Sweden can do for the Ethiopian people. There has been a sharp increase in ethnic violence in recent years, and there is a great risk of new violence. There have been several incidents of murder and violence. Those responsible for these crimes must be investigated and brought to justice. It's not happening right now. In the media we can read that there is great concern among those living and working in a region where they belong to a minority. The ethnic lines of conflict in politics are at risk of strengthening violence and worsening the situation. It is in this situation that Sweden and the outside world must step up. The risk is that the Ethiopian government, led by Abiy Ahmed, who is not elected by free and fair elections, will extend the state of emergency and postpone further the planned elections. The risk is that the authorities will continue to shut down the Internet and telephony. It has been common in recent years. The danger is that dissidents, journalists and politicians will again be imprisoned without trials and that the democratic space extended when Abiy Ahmed took office will shrink again. The humanitarian situation, especially in Tigray, is now difficult. International aid must be channelled to support the Ethiopian people. Thousands of people are believed to have been killed in the last three weeks of fighting in Tigray, and over 43 000 people have fled across the border to Sudan. The UN estimates that 1.1 million Ethiopians will need help as a result of the conflict. The Foreign Minister is happy to respond to her view of Abiy Ahmed as Prime Minister and what her message to the Ethiopian Foreign Minister was when they spoke on the phone. It would also be interesting to hear what the Minister for Foreign Affairs thinks Sweden can do. We have an embassy in Addis Abeba and have had long-standing contacts with Ethiopia, which in 1954 was actually the first country to which Sweden provided assistance.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-239	Madam President, I would like As Håkan Svenneling has just said, Sweden has a long-standing relationship with Ethiopia and strong inter-folk ties. This is also reflected in the great interest in Ethiopia that exists here in the Riksdag. I have regularly held a dialogue with several members of the Riksdag on the democratic development of Ethiopia and the challenges that this entails. In talks with Ethiopian representatives, Sweden has consistently stressed the importance of maintaining respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs and I also have close contacts with the Ethiopian diaspora in Sweden. I fully share the concern about the developments in Tigray and the devastating consequences we see in both Ethiopia and the region as a whole. Håkan Svenneling asked me about my conversation with my Ethiopian colleague Demeke Demeke. I just made that point. We had a very frank discussion about the serious situation in Tigray and its effects. I called for peaceful solutions. I stressed that humanitarian aid must reach the cut-off areas. I also stressed that ethnic violence, violations and harassment must stop. The parties to the conflict have a great responsibility to respect the requirements of international humanitarian law and to protect civilians from the consequences of the war. We also see alarming reports of abuse from other parts of the country. Any abuse or violation of human rights or of the civilian population is unacceptable, regardless of who commits them. I also expressed concern that ethnic violence will increase in other parts of the country when federal forces are regrouped to Tigray. Sweden is now focusing, together with the EU, the UN, the AU and other international actors, on supporting initiatives for peaceful solutions. We see the African Union as a key player and we support their work. Through its Presidency of the AU, South Africa may have the opportunity to make a difference. I will therefore talk to the South African Foreign Minister, Mr Pandar, about developments. This morning I also had a longer conversation with my Foreign Minister colleague from Eritrea, Osman Saleh Mohammed. The government therefore continues to monitor developments very closely and stands ready to assist in any way we can.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-246	Madam President, I would like I am pleased to hear that the Foreign Minister has been in talks with the Eritrean Foreign Minister, that she is planning talks with the South African Foreign Minister and that the AU is seen as a key player in this. I believe that this is the right way to support the regional actors on the ground from Sweden and Europe. The AU even has its seat in Addis Abeba. It has occurred to me in these weeks in November that Abiy Ahmed has been very opposed to international initiatives. There may be some slight change in tone in the last few days, based on the fact that in some sense he considers himself to have won the war. I think that's a hasty conclusion to draw. We know that the TPLF has been guerrilla warfare in the past. I am also pleased that the Minister is lifting up ethnic violence and clearly saying that it has been going on around Ethiopia. It's got to be in the problem picture. The oromic musician Hachalu Hundessa was murdered this summer. This month there was a massacre in Mai Kadra, where 500 people were murdered, according to Amnesty. It is unclear who is responsible. But investigations are definitely required in both cases. There have been bus attacks in western Ethiopia. And in southern Ethiopia, a village has been attacked. Many have died in these ethnic conflicts. Violence has indeed been present. There have not been many reports about it, but one might imagine that there has been violence against women. It's important to keep an eye on it. It is clear that democratic reforms are needed in Ethiopia. In practice, it has been a one-party government since TPLF took power in 1991. There has been a kind of federal order with different factions within the party based on ethnicity and region. Abiy Ahmed has reformed this. He has expelled the TPLF from power and made himself the center of power. The question now is how other groups should actually be able to gain access to power so that there are no purges of tigreans at all levels or that, for example, air captains are not allowed to fly, as we have read about in Swedish newspapers. It is very important to keep an eye on this now. It is also important to keep track of the wider regional perspective of the entire Horn of Africa. We have seen that missile attacks have taken place against Eritrea's capital Asmera. Given that the Foreign Minister has spoken with their Foreign Minister, it would be interesting to hear a little more about Eritrea's view on this, that is, the attempts to involve the country in the conflict or the influence on Eritrea as a country and as a neighbouring state to the conflict. Finally, there is also a need to raise humanitarian needs. It is large and partly difficult to assess for the UN when UN personnel have had to withdraw. In this respect, one really needs to push the Ethiopian Government, led by Abiy Ahmed, to get the UN back in place, be in the region and get a picture of how many people need support. For some, the needs are urgent, including those of refugees in neighbouring Sudan, but also those of Eritrean refugees who have been in camps in the region. They have basically been left wind by wave for a whole month now. They amount to about 100,000. We know that Ethiopia is one of the countries in the world that has the greatest refugee reception and that takes a huge responsibility. But in this situation, the outside world must stand up and support Ethiopia's refugees and the people of Ethiopia.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-253	Madam President, I would like Ethiopia is already ahead of the latest developments in a comprehensive process of change. The country has been characterised in recent years by democratic and economic reforms. At the same time, violence and conflict, often with ethnic undertones, have been very common. The postponed elections have increased tensions. Etiopen is one of Sweden's largest aid countries, but our relationships are also about trade and the presence of Swedish companies, such as Ericson, HM, ABB, Volvo and Scania. Our development cooperation with Ethiopia focuses on long-term efforts in the areas of democracy and human rights, climate, environment, resilience, business climate and social security. A significant part of Swedish development aid is channelled through multilateral organisations, such as the UN, the World Bank and civil society. After the democratic reforms started in 2018, the government increased development cooperation to strengthen efforts in the areas of democracy, human rights, rule of law, gender equality and peace promotion. We did this because we saw a need to strengthen democratic development in Ethiopia quickly and to prevent conflicts. The support is aimed, inter alia, at the development of institutions and civil society, as well as efforts towards peace and reconciliation. This is, of course, still important. For example, we support Ethiopia's Commission on Human Rights, the Ombudsman's function, the electoral process and Parliament. Through development cooperation, we are also working to promote the emergence of independent media and civil society. Through development cooperation, Sweden supports peace building and reconciliation in Ethiopia. Ethiopia is one of the poorest countries in the world. In recent years, local violence and conflict, as well as droughts, floods and locust invasions have hit hard with more than 1.8 million internally displaced persons. Covid-19 also presents major challenges. It has meant an even greater vulnerability to the Ethiopian people. Therefore, Sweden has a large amount of humanitarian aid. Now that over 40 000 Ethiopians have fled to Sudan, we are working intensively to support aid organisations so that they can increase aid for people in need even there. Sweden's support for Ethiopia's population is long-term and extensive. Current developments are very worrying and underline the need to continue to work on peace and reconciliation and the strengthening of human rights.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-259	Madam President, I would like The Foreign Minister here raises aid to Ethiopia and that it increased in the positive years that we have had behind us. It was an important choice of the government. The question now is whether the government is thinking in other ways when it sees that the development of democracy and human rights is going in the wrong direction. It would be interesting to hear about it. Madam President, I would like Sweden, the Swedish Government and the Riksdag have a responsibility to care about developments in Ethiopia. If we do not care, the risks of increased ethnic violence are great. We must care if human rights are to be upheld and the democratic space does not shrink. The international pressure on Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed and his government now needs to increase in order to open up the internet and telephony, for humanitarian aid to enter the Tigray region and for those fleeing in and around the Horn of Africa to be helped. One of the cornerstones of this conflict has been the question of elections. Both parties have called it another illegitimate. TPLF has done so on the basis that the government postponed the elections, and the government has done so because the TPLF conducted the elections. During the coronapandemy, it is of course a challenge to hold free and fair elections around the world. But Sweden must be a spokesperson for the importance of free and fair elections, so that the Ethiopian people have an opportunity to elect their politicians during 2021 when the Prime Minister has promised that elections will be held. I hope that the Swedish and international pressure for this will be great. We also need to keep high pressure in order for there to be free review media, both domestic and foreign, that are allowed to operate. We have seen that the permits for several foreign media have been withdrawn or that they have been threatened. Political opponents must also again have the right to make their voices heard. We have seen that political opponents have been systematically arrested and imprisoned. I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply, which I think is in line with what I myself think is the right way to go.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-265	Madam President, I would like As I said, I am delighted at the great commitment to Ethiopia that exists in this House and in Parliament. Current developments are very serious and deserve our attention. I would like to thank Håkan Svenneling for bringing this up in an interpellation and for, what I think, a good debate. Let me underline a few points in my closing speech. We are very serious about what is happening right now in Tigray and Ethiopia. But this also means that support for human rights and democracy and civil society may be even more urgent. We also see the large influx of refugees into Sudan and that the conflict can and has already had consequences for the whole region. Together with the EU and the international community, we call on the parties to the conflict to cease all violence. Humanitarian access and the protection of civilians must be guaranteed. Peaceful, long-term and sustainable solutions must also be found. Like Europe, we are ready to support such an initiative. As I said, we support the efforts of the African Union. As I said earlier, we are concerned that ethnic violence is increasing in Ethiopia. We're getting reports of harassment and ethnic profiling. Any abuse or violation of human rights or of the civilian population is unacceptable, regardless of who commits them. We will continue to monitor developments very closely. We will work towards peaceful development that must comply with international law, including human rights and international humanitarian law.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-269	Madam President, I would like Jessica Thunander has asked me if I am prepared to tear up and reconsider infrastructure objects with regard to environmental objectives. Let me begin by stating that Sweden has a very ambitious climate policy. Sweden will be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. The climate targets set shall be met. Currently, the Government's national traffic law-crossing plan for the infrastructure is being implemented for the period 2018 – 2029, an investment of over SEK 700 billion. This means, among other things, the largest railway investment in modern times. We do this to increase accessibility, modernise Swedish infrastructure and increase opportunities for climate-smart transport. The starting point for national infrastructure planning is the achievement of transport policy objectives. Climate targets are a key starting point. In addition, there are also several other objectives set by the Riksdag and the Government. There are many societal challenges where the transport system plays a major role and several needs should be weighed against each other. The Government has now begun work to develop a new national plan by, among other things, entrusting the Swedish Transport Administration with the development of specialization data. The starting point is, among other things, that the climate transition should permeate the policy and that the climate goals should be met. The Climate objectives are therefore also a central starting point for state transport infrastructure planning. The Finnish Transport Agency reported its focus data on 30 October. At the same time, the base was widely consulted and will be prepared in the usual way within the Government Office.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-274	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Infrastructure for his answer. However, I would like to point out that my question to the Minister for Infrastructure was not about the railways and how much money the government is spending on them. It is far too little, by the way, even though there is much, especially in view of the large maintenance debt, the lack of capacity in many places and the forced closures of several regional routes. I am also fully aware of the climate and environmental objectives that the government and parliament have set – and how bad we are at steering towards them. According to all the research, it goes like that. We will not achieve the 2030 targets with the instruments we have and the things we do today, despite the climate emergency we find ourselves in and despite the fact that we should have changed decades ago and are far too slow. Talk goes, but it requires considerably more effective action and more workshop. My question, to which I still do not think I have been given an answer, concerns the major road projects that remain in the infrastructure plan since old, despite the fact that they directly counteract the environmental and climate objectives. In the report Environmental objectives in transport planning, researchers show serious shortcomings in current planning and processes. There is a significant gap between objectives and outcomes in infrastructure planning. The report proposes that the Finnish Transport Administration's planning should focus more clearly on the climate target for the transport sector and actively direct investments towards measures that contribute to the transformation of the transport system in both the short and long term. You get the demand that you build for. It is no secret that we need to reduce road traffic in order to meet the climate targets by 2030. In the report, the researchers note that road constructions that create new traffic go against several important environmental objectives and that it is not in line with environmental objectives to spend billions on road objects that directly counteract climate and environmental objectives, and that large financial resources are taken into account – resources needed to build the sustainable and efficient transport system of the future rather than expanding yesterday's unsustainable systems. Infrastructure planning has very long lead times. This means that a large proportion of the investments in today's plans were decided long before today's climate targets were adopted. If we are to take the climate target seriously, it becomes clear that the focus for infrastructure planning needs to change. The report proposes that the Government commissions Trafikverket to develop methods and forms of collaboration where, in consultation with regions and municipalities, it can identify previously decided objects that do not meet today's requirements. Models need to be developed to enable old decisions on objects that go against climate and environmental objectives to be revamped and reconsidered and replaced by projects to restructure the transport sector. This must, of course, be done with respect for municipalities and regions and without destroying trust between the parties.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-281	Madam President, I would like I think it's a very important interpellation that Jessica Thunander has written. The report referred to in the interpellation, Environmental objectives in transport planning, is also very important. It is that infrastructure planning should be based on what objectives we want to achieve. Among other things, it is about achieving our climate goals. For the transport sector, we have a very clear target: emissions will be reduced by 70% by 2030. There are less than ten years left until then. We should start from the targets instead of a baseline forecast based on increased traffic. If you read the data that has come from Trafikverket, you don't really get the feeling that they are fully based on our climate goal, even though they say they are. Here it is predicted that we will have increased traffic. However, it is hoped that there will be a 70% increase in biofuel incorporation. It is hoped for large - scale electrification, and perhaps the CO2 tax on fuel will have to be increased as much as $2.50 (U.S.). I do not believe that this is a desirable and not a realistic development. Instead, researchers are talking about the fact that we should press more clearly for us to build another transport system and for us to have a more transport-efficient society. There I fully agree with Jessica Thunander: then some large-scale road projects need to be re-evaluated. Here in the Stockholm area there are plans to build what is called Tvärtändning Södertörn, which is also included in the current infrastructure plan. It is a highway construction that would go free of about SEK 11 billion. It is dismissed by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency for environmental and climate reasons. They believe that building a new motorway will increase road traffic, just as the interpellier said earlier. I therefore think it would be interesting to hear from the Minister for Infrastructure whether there are any concrete motorway projects that he is prepared to reconsider for climate reasons. This could, for example, be Cross-connection Södertörn. Since we all talk so much about the importance of building a transport-efficient society, sometimes we must also dare to say that some transport may not happen at all in the future. So we need to transport ourselves less in such a way as to increase emissions. In this context, I am thinking of road traffic. Does the Minister of Infrastructure consider it desirable to reduce road traffic? I think that is a very important question to hear about. If the Minister believes that it is desirable for climate reasons to reduce road traffic, he should also propose some form of instruments and measures to reduce road traffic in order to reduce emissions from the transport sector. Otherwise, the Minister appears rather careless and without tools, even if the intentions are good.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-287	Madam President, I would like I thank both Jessica Thunander and Jens Holm. But I'm not that pessimistic. I believe that there is a good chance of achieving the target of the transport sector reducing its emissions by 70% by 2030. There are major initiatives being taken, not only in Sweden but also internationally and at European level with Green Deal. With the big effort we are now making on electrification and biofuels with the reduction obligation, that is to say, to involve biofuels when we are tanking diesel and petrol, and on transport efficiency, there are good opportunities to achieve the goals. We are, of course, following these issues, not least the Climate Policy Council is following these issues very closely and making the necessary briefings, just as the Finnish Transport Agency is doing. It was not so long ago that I received another programme that Fossil-free Sweden has developed together with the heavy vehicle industry. It describes how heavy goods vehicles should be electrified, which can significantly reduce emissions from heavy traffic. As far as the work on national plans is concerned, I think that respect should be given to the process that exists. The Finnish Transport Administration's documentation is now being consulted, and a new national plan will not be adopted until 2022. I think it is clear not least in the data from Trafikverket how important the climate issue there is. However, for those who follow the debate, I would like to take this opportunity to explain some of the conflicts of interests that exist. It is possible to say in general that it should not be invested in roads. Nevertheless, I want us to be able to make road safety-enhancing efforts. I am asked almost every week that there are extreme doubts about the speed reductions made on some rural roads, precisely because the roads do not have sufficient quality. There the desire is strong throughout the country to set up central railings and invest in roads to reduce the mortality of traffic. What paths does the Left Party think should not be pursued in this context? Do you not see a risk that they might conflict with road safety issues? That's a question I think you have to remember. We will work hard to constantly switch from road to rail to climate-smart transport. I have told you in many contexts about a successful example, for example in Malungsfors when we electrified Västerdalsbanan. It went in western Dalarna heavy truck transport with forest raw material. It was 7 500 annually that released 8 000 tonnes of carbon dioxide. Now Västerdalsbanan is upgraded. It was an old abandoned railway line, and now it's electrified. It is climate smart, it strengthens the competitiveness of the forest industry and it means very much reduced emissions. This also means an effort not only in the metropolitan areas but actually throughout the country. And that is absolutely necessary. We need to keep this in mind when we consider what positions to take in advance of national plan 2022. Efforts should be made throughout the country, and the whole country should be involved in the climate change that needs to be done. There should be conditions for expanded charging infrastructure or electric roads, so that we can reduce climate emissions from the transport sector overall. Cars will still be needed. You're going to have to transport yourself, and there's not a subway everywhere. Then transport policy must ensure that there is good accessibility throughout the country, but it must be sustainable. This is why we have the ambition that Sweden will become the world's first fossil-free welfare nation. This very much permeates infrastructure policy with the efforts we are currently making.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-294	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister for Infrastructure. Now I must be very clear. My question is not about maintenance of roads. I live in the countryside myself, and the maintenance is very slow and very important. I agree that there are places in the country where you have to use a car. This will continue to be the case regardless of how much we are expanding rail transport and also public transport. There will be places where the roads must be renovated. I'm fully aware of that. These are major road transport projects, not infrequently in metropolitan regions where public transport is a real alternative. It goes directly towards environmental and climate objectives, and there are other options for transport. It is important to keep these issues separate, that is, new construction or maintenance of roads where they are really needed. The Minister for Infrastructure also deals with biofuels and the conversion to electricity. These are also very important issues. They will not be enough if road traffic continues to increase as it is today. 89% of the raw materials for biofuels in Sweden today come from abroad. Much of them are not produced in a sustainable way; they affect other populations. Although we increase the production of biofuels in Sweden, the potential of biofuels is limited. We can't increase as much as we want. We should also remember that aviation and shipping are interested in biofuels, and we need to think about where the biofuels we can obtain are best used. Where are they most important? How do we improve transport efficiency? The Finnish Transport Agency, together with five other authorities, produced a report on how to achieve climate goals and how to use energy. There, electrification and biofuels were two parts, but the third part was transport efficiency. This is not at all reflected in the focus report from Trafikverket to the national plan. I very much hope that we will reach the targets by 2030 and then become completely fossil-free by 2045. I wish it were. We can, but then we'll have to tap up. There are nine years left. We cannot wait to get started, but rather rather intervention and great action are needed for us to succeed. I also understand that there are different needs and goals to balance, but climate change is absolutely vital. People suffer and die every day in climate-related disasters. There are fires, storms, hurricanes, floods and so on. There will also be less agricultural production and so on. Transport efficiency must be improved, and we must aim not to increase road traffic – although it will still be needed. I still ask the question: Is the Minister for Infrastructure willing to commission the Swedish Transport Administration to review decided projects with regard to climate and environmental objectives?
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-303	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Infrastructure asked the Left Party which roads we do not want to build in favour of sustainable modes of transport. It did not sound like the Minister for Infrastructure had really listened to my previous speech. I spoke about Tvärnändning Södertörn here in Stockholm – a large-scale motorway project. The Stockholm bypass, another motorway project, is unfortunately underway. It has turned out to be the big hole that only consumes billions, as we warned, and it will increase traffic in the Stockholm region. There are discussions about Eastern Connection to the east of Stockholm – also a metropolitan project that will lead to increased traffic and cost a lot of money. E22 Lund is also another motorway project. There are many things that we spend on large cities that lead to increased motorism, where we should instead spend the money on maintenance and on the railways. The Minister mentioned biofuels, and Jessica Thunander raised that. I can only say that the Finnish Transport Administration's basic report refers to increased use of biofuels by 70% by 2030. It does not agree with such large-scale biofuel production. Where is the raw material to be taken? The Minister will be happy to answer. We need to build a transport-efficient society. It is desirable to reduce road traffic, and I find it a little distressing that the Minister cannot say this in Parliament's pulpit. We need to build sustainable, fair, transport efficient cities, spend more money on walking and cycling paths, build more green areas, take space from cars and allow space for smarter modes of transport, car sharing pools and more. Now, during the pandemic, we have good opportunities to do just that, as people move less and we can build more sustainable cities. We in the Left Party set aside money for this. What's the government doing?
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-312	Madam President, I would like Thank you, both Jessica Thunander and Jens Holm! Of course, I share many of your positions because we are right there. We are carrying out the largest railway investment in modern times. We are making up for years of underinvestment in the railways but also years of wrongdoing in terms of road maintenance. We are changing the transport sector with extensive electrification. We've set up an electrification commission. I myself have clearly stated that we must stop building infrastructure based on men and cars, a statement which attracted some attention but which is actually true because it has rarely been socio-economic, gender equality or other parameters that have been crucial. Those days are over. We have changed transport planning to include today also climate change, regional cohesion and, not least, housing construction. But I also want respect for the basis that the Swedish Transport Administration has developed and the process we have. We get a focus paper that goes for referrals, and we have hearings. I want to listen to what civil society, business and the regions are saying – not least the Stockholm region, which will certainly have views, thoughts, ideas and wishes about the road projects that Jens Holm is now mentioning. The government's starting point is clear: we are going to reset. Sweden will become the world's first fossil-free welfare country, and an important part of it is about resetting Transportsverige. I, too, am extremely concerned about the increase in road transport. The whole starting point of the freight transport strategy and the work we do is to move more goods from road to rail and to shipping. But you shouldn't dream about it happening very quickly. That is why it is incredibly important that road transport should be changed so that they too can be sustainable through biofuels and electrification. Electrification is charging infrastructure, electric roads and premiums for renewing the vehicle fleet – both buses and trucks, work machines and for that matter private cars. Sweden is the country in the EU that now has the largest share of electric cars and charging hybrids in new car sales, so it is fast. Of course, it is also a question of biofuels. I can share the concern about the challenge of ensuring that biofuels are sufficient. This is a classic discussion we have had in Sweden, because it is clear that the starting point cannot be that we should unilaterally import biomaterials. Sugar cane ethanol from Brazil is surely the prime example. That is why it is a tough priority in the future, and for this very reason an important starting point for me, that we are speeding up the electrification of road transport. I think that a large part of the biofuels we can produce in Sweden in the future will need to be reserved for aviation. The flight needs to make its transition, and there I think the trip to electrification will take a little longer. Although I am a tech optimist and am pleased that we are now on electric flights, we should be aware that it will take time to get fully electrified flights. I really want to give Jessica Thunander the right idea that it will take a great deal of effort in the future to achieve not only the 2030 targets but also the 2045 targets. I would like to take this opportunity to say so, because 2030 is a lot about instruments and changes in behaviour. However, the investments we have to make in the future must also be directed towards the target of reaching net zero by 2045. That is one of the reasons why we need to strengthen the capacity of the railways and make sure to build even more rail in the future, because it is climate-smart so it proposes.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-323	Madam President, I would like I fully agree that we have built from men and men's cars. That's actually true. For decades, we have built our infrastructure around the car and had the car as the norm. But this means that it is possible to build in a different way, based on different standards and other objectives. We must do the same. But it gets problematic when so many major road projects-- now I'm talking new roads-- which increase road traffic still remains in the plan. In the previous plan, two thirds of the projects are those that have been included from previous plans. I think there is a need for a round-up, where you look at old projects and include the climate and environmental objectives that did not exist when you decided on them. It is also problematic that the Swedish Transport Administration, for example, does not seem to see the infrastructure as something that is important in the climate transition, judging by the orientation plan and how the Swedish Transport Administration talks. It is a matter of the Government's need to be much clearer in its directives so that the Finnish Transport Administration really sees its role in the transformation and sees that the infrastructure also needs to be redesigned and re-designed because it is the one that affects how much traffic there is in different modes of transport. It is good that we agree on how important this is, because climate change is here now and it is urgent.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-327	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Thunander, for an important discussion! When it comes to the basic issue of lifting out, we should remember that it is not done very often. The times you lift objects out of a national plan create the great convulsions because the whole idea is that it is a long-term planning so that there is predictability, not least for municipalities and regions. The most famous example of extant projects is that in 2006 the newly appointed bourgeois government chose to lift the Norrbotnia Line. I have said it on a few occasions now: What if you had not done it? Then it would have been built by now, about. Then we would have had Norrbotniabanan along the coast of Norrland. How important had it not been for Northvolt's establishment and for their ability to recruit people to the Skellefteå region? How important would it have been for the opportunity to have climate-smart passenger and freight transport along the entire coast of Norrland instead of cars and trucks? It is clear that this would have been a significantly better investment. My starting point is that you should be very careful about changing the conditions when there is a importance in having predictability. On the other hand, each national plan is a new national plan. But I think you should be very careful, not least on the basis of the need for predictability in transport planning. I do not share the view that the Swedish Transport Administration does not see the climate challenge. On the contrary, I think that Trafikverket is doing a solid job in describing the challenges that climate change poses for the entire infrastructure. There you have strengthened your skills, and you are working very well to describe this. It is also the case that in its processes, in the procurement of the implementation of infrastructure construction, Trafikverket now places completely different climate requirements than it did in the past. It is also important because the very construction of infrastructure, however much we want to see it, in itself leads to quite heavy climate emissions. My starting point is that we should meet the climate targets. We're going to change Transportsverige, and we're going to do it all over Sweden with all of Sweden's support – not just the big cities.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-334	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me several questions about Bromma airport and the connections to and from Arlanda. Kjell Jansson has asked me several questions about Bromma airport and the future of domestic aviation. I choose to answer these questions together. The spread of the new coronavirus and covid-19 disease has affected air travel dramatically. Air traffic has fallen sharply. Even before the pandemic, we saw a reduced flight. We are still in a position where the prospects are uncertain. Both reduced flight and covid ‐ 19 affect the aviation market, both in the short and long term. In the Government Office, a review of the State's responsibility and role as a provider of aid to non-State regional airports and routes with public service obligations is under way. The effects of the ongoing pandemic and the reduced flight will be analysed in the further work. Under current market conditions, Swedavia AB has carried out an impact assessment of the continued operation of Bromma airport, based on the company's mission and business perspective. The company has presented its conclusions. According to Swedavia's assessment, under current market conditions it is not commercially justified to operate Bromma airport further. The impact of Swedavia's assessment is currently being analysed in the Government Office. As far as communications to and from Arlanda are concerned, it is of course desirable that more people use public transport. The Government has started work on developing a new national plan for the development of the transport system and intends to present an infrastructure proposal to the Riksdag in spring 2021.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-339	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your answer. Although it is difficult to be satisfied with something that is so vague and actually did not really answer any of the questions I have asked. I must admit that I am seriously concerned about the future of aviation in Sweden. It is sad to see how the government treats aviation, and it is not just about what is happening during the pandemic we are now in. One-sidedly, a flight tax was introduced in Sweden instead of seeing how to work internationally to discuss, for example, carbon tax. We had already lost ten direct routes from Arlanda to the world before the pandemic in two years. Air India and Singapore Airlines have announced that they will abandon Arlanda after the crisis. Then there is the question of the Arlanda Council and their report, which the government chose not to make public. This sends signals to aviation: What is the future of aviation in Sweden? How does the government view aviation? The basis for this sad action is the Green Party, and I understand that it is difficult to rule with them if one is to agree on such an issue as aviation. Emma Berginger was clear in a recent debate: we are not going to fly even if the flight changes, and it is good if airports are closed down. Air travel currently accounts for 2% of world emissions and, in relation to this, takes an unreasonable amount of space in the climate debate. Air transport is changing, and good infrastructure is needed today and tomorrow, with airports that ensure that it is possible to live and run businesses throughout Sweden. In the midst of the crisis we are now in, where aviation is one of the industries that has been most affected, the government is commissioning Swedavia to look at whether it is possible to shut down Bromma prematurely. After having discussed this with not least Swedish regional airports, I understand that for them this felt like the nail in the coffin. The airports are struggling for their survival, and an early closure of Bromma could simply mean that they do not have a chance to survive. This creates enormous uncertainty on the part of the airlines operating in Bromma and, as we know, are already on their knees today. I had a meeting with Good not long ago. They've postponed their reboot and are unsure how to deal with the issue of closing Bromma. The report creates an enormous amount of uncertainty about domestic aviation and the possibilities to get by air to and from Stockholm, which is absolutely crucial if it is to be possible to run companies in many parts of Sweden. Even more uncertainty creates the fact that this report is secret. There is therefore no possibility whatsoever of critical scrutiny and discussion. The question marks ahead are very many. What was the government's intention when ordering the report? If you wanted to fly well, the mission to Swedavia, if it had to be given in the midst of a burning pandemic, could have looked very different. In addition, it could have been made clear that domestic flights to and from Stockholm should not be jeopardised. At least the summary of Swedavia's report states very clearly that Arlanda needs to be developed and expanded and that new terminals and new runways are needed – otherwise the ceiling will be hit relatively quickly. All three of my questions remain after the Minister for Infrastructure's answer. What are the government's plans for the airports around Stockholm? And how do you think about domestic aviation in Sweden?
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-350	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Eneroth, for your answer. However, it raises more questions than answers. The spread of the Corona virus has affected air travel dramatically, the Government responds. Yes, that's absolutely true. But it is not possible to plan a society for a pandemic in the long term. We have to plan for some kind of normal economy, I think. When this misery is over, there can be an extreme rise in Sweden, with our huge export industry. It can be something like what happened after the Second World War, when Sweden grew fastest in Europe. What measures does the Minister intend to take to ensure domestic aviation, if the government intends to dismantle Bromma prematurely, as all indications indicate? The concession runs until 2038, but more and more signals come that you want to dismantle Bromma earlier. If this is the case, in the first quarter of 2021 the Government should commission the Finnish Transport Administration to start the design of the fourth track. Or should the government partner Environmental Party, with 4 per cent, have the right to veto the long-term development of Arlanda and aviation? The flight is important for the Stockholm region and for the whole of Sweden. We're an elongated country. Many people live in Norrland and need to come down here, and even in Skåne you need to get up to the capital. What does the government really want with Arlanda? It is important to have an answer to this. Madam President, I would like The government has buried the Arlanda Council's investigation and classified it. My question is: why has the government done this? The investigation identifies Arlanda's importance for the whole country and wants it to be invested in Arlanda as the leading airport in the Nordic region. The infrastructure at the airport is undersized. The Finnish Transport Agency should be tasked with strengthening the capacity around the airport. The 4th runway must be built to cope with future traffic. It takes about 20 years for it to be clear from the start of the project, Madam President, with our current legislation. According to its concession, SAS has 70 per cent of the landing and take-off permits at Arlanda Airport. Other airlines from all over the world have 30%. This makes it very locked. In the long term, we need more airlines, which also make long-haul flights. Or does the government not want to invest in Arlanda in the long term? Does the government not think that the Stockholm region needs any airports, Mr. Minister? Madam President, I would like There is a need to build more tracks between Stockholm and Uppsala and create a functional travel centre in the Arlanda region. Improved capacity is needed on the E4 in the Arlanda region, with more lanes and extended traffic areas. The Roslagsbanan should be extended to Sky City. I myself was involved in this when I was counseling in Norrtälje for many years. That's a very good solution. With 1.2 or 1.3 mil extended tracks you get redundancy with Roslagsbanan to Sky City. A reinforced connection between Märsta and Arlanda and the surrounding airport city is also needed.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-359	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus and Kjell Jansson for their commitment! First of all, I would like to raise a few points of order. When it comes to the mission to Swedavia, the responsibility lies with Minister Baylan, so it is the Ministry of Industry that manages it. It's just for form's sake that you're careful. Maria Stockhaus is very welcome to address her questions there. With all due respect, this with the Arlanda Council is not classified. I led the work. It was a process within the Government Office where we developed a solid basis as advice for the continued process of developing aviation infrastructure in Sweden. Similarly, within the Government Office, we also have work to look at regional airports. I also think that everyone realises that when the pandemic came, the conditions for aviation changed. Maria Stockhaus said she was worried about the future of aviation. I think that's a lot of people. The pandemic and the development we see is a hit on the plane. For a period of time there were reports that all scheduled flights between countries had stopped. This is not a question of political will, it is a pandemic where the starting point is to limit the spread of infection and ensure that people do not die of a serious disease. In this way, we have had to make dramatic efforts throughout the world to protect human lives. The consequences of this have been noticed not least in aviation but also in other passenger transport. Only here in Sweden have we made extensive efforts to support aviation in order to maintain socially important transport. We have introduced public service obligations to ensure that we have air connections between Gotland and the mainland or in Norrland and to make important medical transport. This has been done at a time when the market was not able to do so. Then we will have to go in and procure with common tax funds and ensure that transport is of social importance. We have given extensive support to regional airports, to state airports, to Swedavia and to the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration. We have put in place air credit guarantees, which SAS, in particular, has been able to use. A great deal of effort is being made, because the flight is needed. But the flight needs to reset. That is the simple summary. Sweden is an export-dependent industrial country, and it is clear that from this point of view, too, aviation is important, but no one should hesitate about the need for the aircraft to change. How else are we going to interpret the discussion and the movement that existed before the pandemic and that was about aircam? There were a lot of people who chose other means of transport instead. The flight itself and its representatives have now made the trip and developed an ambitious programme together with Fossil-free Sweden, where aviation actors show how to change. These are smart landing routes, environmentally differentiated take-off and landing charges, biofuel introduction and, in the long term, electric flights. I believe that the development we are now seeing is absolutely crucial, where aviation itself takes the climate issue seriously. From the Swedish side, we have taken the lead shirt on these issues and also internationally at the ICAO General Assembly called for us to have the opportunity to tax fossil aviation fuel. The Moderates have one more journey to make. The pandemic began by demanding a reduced flight tax in a situation where no flights went. It may not be the most effective means. And in climate policy, the Moderates proposed extensive savings. I would like to see a moderate assembly party that is a bit more modern and is beginning to take on how we can manage the climate challenge with technology development and also maintain good accessibility. We will take a position on issues relating to connection links to Arlanda, among others, in connection with the work on national plans, and there I will of course listen in particular to the representatives of the Stockholm region.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-370	Madam President, I would like We fully agree that a change is also necessary for aviation, but then there must be a flight left to reset after the pandemic. I have expressed concern about the future of aviation. The pandemic is, of course, an important reason why we are worried about aviation. Unfortunately, we have a government that makes the situation for Swedish flights worse. You don't do everything you can. You are not clear in your signals, so that Swedish flights feel that you have the support of this government. The Green Party said no to procure flights south of Dalälven. As I said earlier, Emma Berginger from the Green Party says that it does not matter if the aircraft resets and it is good if airports are closed down. That kind of signal from a government party naturally causes one to be very worried about one's future in an industry that is already on its knees today. We Moderates are clear that the whole of Sweden needs a flight. We need the flight to travel within the country, and we need the flight to get out into the world. The existence of good communications is crucial for the development of the whole country. In Agenda, Minister Eneroth said that it makes no sense to expand an airport in the middle of a pandemic. I would say that it is precisely then that one should take the opportunity, when there is less flying and construction does not affect much of the flight itself. There are many different forecasts of how aviation recovers. But I do know that there is no forecast to show that it is not recovering. Then we must have an adequate, modern capacity to face the increased flying. In fact, I am not worried about flying just because of the Corona, but also because we have a government that makes a terrible situation worse. Domestic aviation operators are very concerned about the possible closure of Bromma. We Moderates had a meeting with Swedavia. They were clear that physical capacity and available capacity are two completely different things. There is a system for slot times that is an international agreement and that governs the allocation of flight times at Arlanda. Even if it is not flown on some chateaux, the airlines that own them will not release them. That is to say, there is no room for the domestic flight from Bromma to start from Arlanda. So I share Swedavia's concerns. I have tried to dig a lot into this with the slot system and what it takes, and I understand that Swedavia does too. But at present there is no solution. At present, the early closure of Bromma means very bad conditions for domestic flights to move from there to Arlanda. The environmental party's flying hatred also means that Västerås and Karlstad are threatened with closure, and Skavsta also has problems. They have not benefited from any of the aid received by the aircraft. All they have been able to see is the more general support measures. If Bromma goes down, I wonder where business flights, ambulances, coastguards and fire planes are going to fit somewhere. There is also no redundancy in the Stockholm area if all these airports disappear. How will domestic flights fit at Arlanda Airport, and how will all other important social flights fit in the Stockholm area? Is it better for Arlanda to become an airport where you cannot fly internationally to other destinations than Copenhagen if you are going to make it out into the world? Does this government not want there to be direct flights out into the world, so that Swedish companies can get out into the world and foreign companies can establish themselves in Sweden?
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-381	Madam President, I would like I can assure Minister Eneroth that the Moderates are not anti-technology, on the contrary. We're used to pushing. We are a modern party – a party of ideas that always comes up with new solutions. But it is not the case that we are fundamentalists in terms of aviation and environmental policy, where sometimes it seems to be completely ineffective measures that the government decides on. That's a completely different thing. If we want to do something about the environment, it is about effective measures and not a lot of nonsense – excuse me! Sweden is an export-dependent country, perhaps more than any other country in the world. 53 percent of bnp is export. We need to travel more. Our businessmen in the big companies need to come out and do more business to bring more orders to Sweden and create more jobs in our companies, not fewer. Then you have to make it easier for them to get out and travel. It is not just holidays to Thailand that take care of flights, which can sometimes be felt when you look at the debate. Today, the Stockholm region pays 45% of the state tax. About 40 percent of all tax revenue comes from the Stockholm region. You still get the feeling that the government is running an anti-Stockholm policy. Let me give you a few examples. The first is an early closure of Bromma and a halted expansion of Arlanda due to a four-percent party blocking this. I am convinced that Minister Eneroth basically agrees with us on this. It's a blocked construction of Eastern Connection. It is a blocked construction of Tvärtändning Södertörn. In addition, there is the equalization tax, which almost plunders many Stockholm municipalities from money. The Swedish National Audit recently gave strong criticism of the equalisation tax. Madam President, I would like Does the government want to build high-speed trains so that all air traffic will go to Kastrup and Copenhagen and so that we can scrap our flights up here? Is that the goal of the government? Sometimes you wonder. Madam President, I would like When will Minister Eneroth start the promised round table discussions with the Arlanda municipalities? When will these round tables be held? They are promised, according to the municipal councillors of the Arlanda municipalities. They miss that dialogue. An expansion of Arlanda airport is necessary regardless of whether or when Bromma is closed. It is appropriate to begin now, with you planning an early closure. It is important for the Stockholm region and the rest of the country that Arlanda has a large capacity for flights in the future. Earlier, in the 80's and 90's when I started politics, the major parties – the Moderates and the Social Democrats – worked together on infrastructure issues, such as airports, roads, etc. That's when you made a deal. First, a handshake was given. Then decisions were made and drove. Today, it seems that the Social Democrats want to settle matters with extreme parties. Excuse me, Madam President, but that is the feeling we have.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-390	Madam President, I would like Let me first say something about extreme parties. Here in the Riksdag and in many municipalities and regions in the country, the Moderates now collaborate with the Swedish Democrats. It is cooperating with a party that has a xenophobic agenda and a racist past. I have no worries about cooperating with the Green Party, the Left Party, the Moderates, the Liberals, the Center Party or the Christian Democrats, but I do not cooperate with the Swedish Democrats. I can really appreciate Kjell Jansson's commitment. But I should point out that in the Stockholm region, for which Kjell Jansson speaks warmly, the Moderates are cooperating with the Environment Party. I hope that the tone is not that it is an extreme party. It is well-functioning cooperation, and I hope that the parties will agree on important infrastructure projects and advise the government on what initiatives will be made in the Stockholm region. I understand the commitment in Stockholm, and I think it is important. I also note what it was like just a few years ago. I believe that the priority in the Stockholm region was seven airports, which were absolutely crucial. Now, thanks to a very good process among chambers of commerce and committed politicians in Stockholm, it has been a clear priority: that Arlanda Airport is important. I welcome such a order of priority, because the Stockholm region must also be able to set clear priorities for infrastructure policy. It is clear that aviation faces major challenges; we all know that. I'm a tech optimist. I believe that aviation has the opportunity – it shows the operators themselves – to make a transition. With biofuels and electrification there are opportunities. I hope that the Moderates are also somewhat more technology-optimistic in the future – another legacy has existed in the past. However, I note that the next interpellation debate in this House will be about a moderate Member of Parliament who is doubtful about new technologies and digitalisation. I believe that the starting point for what we are facing is to assess calmly: what is the pandemic for the transport system, and what is the climate challenge for the transport system? To make decisive decisions in the midst of a pandemic or to say confidently about how the development of aviation or other modes of transport should be is not easy. In fact, I think that there should also be a bit of humility for the debaters in this context. We have evidence, not least Swedavia's report. I think we can see that, according to Swedavia's assessment, there are no market conditions to drive Bromma further. We need to analyse this. We need to see what the major crisis that this entails for aviation means for the conditions to maintain good transport systems in Sweden. This is one of the reasons why we are currently giving substantial support to regional airports, to state airports, to Swedavia and to the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration. In particular, we support airlines in the form of a credit guarantee to SAS. This is what we are doing in view of the change that aviation needs to make. I'd like to say, for the reasons I've been told, the flight is needed. However, air transport needs to change, and this change will require operators who are able to make such a change. That is why it is important to have the discussions that we are having with the various players in aviation. Of course, these discussions are not only conducted in the Stockholm region and not only nationally in Sweden. They are carried out internationally, and they are carried out at European level. It is about how we ensure that we have well-functioning flights also in Europe with the developments that have been in recent years. It is a dialogue in which we in Sweden have the leadership shirt in terms of the conversion of aviation, but also in terms of the efficiency and use of airspace. There I am happy to participate in a continued discussion about the possibilities of aviation, but no one should hesitate that the flight also needs to change.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-399	Madam President, I would like I have to say that this debate has not lessened my concern about aviation – it is not just about the pandemic perspective but also about the government's attitude to aviation. I must make it clear that with regard to the recovery of aviation, it is not my assessment that it will recover. I am following international assessors, such as IATA, who are looking at the recovery of aviation. They estimate that it will recover. What is being discussed is the timetable. Then there is the question of whether we will have any flight that can recover in Sweden. I must admit that, following this debate, I am also very concerned about the air capacity around Stockholm. I have not heard the Minister for Infrastructure reflect on or answer to the question of castle times and how it affects the ability of domestic aviation to fit in at Bromma if, as some representatives of the government say, one should not expand Arlanda. How will the domestic flight fit? And how can you fly to and from Stockholm? According to many regional politicians, this is a prerequisite for the survival of many of the companies. I see only one solution, and that is to disconnect the Green Party from everything that has to do with aviation. The plane's changing, but the Green Party doesn't care about that. We're not flying anyway. I agree with the Minister for Infrastructure that it is important for the aircraft to reset. But they must feel that there is a future and that they have a government that believes in them. My question is whether the Social Democrats are prepared to settle with the majority in parliament that actually sees that the flight is needed and wants to give clear answers to the flight: we see that you are having a difficult time. We want you to stay here. We see that you are important to Sweden's future.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-405	Madam President, I would like I note that the government has no desire whatsoever to ensure aviation in the Stockholm region. Does this, when Bromma closes prematurely, mean using Skavsta as a domestic airport and busing people up to Stockholm? Is that the idea? Between the lines it feels that way. There's nothing wrong with Skavsta. That airport is useful for that region, especially down to Östergötland. But the question is: Is it intended to use Skavsta to a greater extent? Is that why you don't want to expand Arlanda? I find it sad that the government is showing such reluctance on this issue. There is a clear majority in this House that is in favour of starting this job. The majority of the parliamentary parties understand that this is necessary and that the pandemic will not last indefinitely. We must certainly hope that, because it is not funny that it is now that people are allowed to lock themselves up and when we as Members are hardly allowed to be here if we do not have debates. It's very destructive. I also lack a little broader funding from the government on this issue. They could perhaps also invite us other parties, who are not in the government, to join in discussing these issues. These are, however, major issues that concern not one or two terms of office, but perhaps 100 years ahead. In my years of advice, I have always been careful to settle major infrastructure issues across block borders, as these apply for a long time regardless of election results. Thank you for the debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-410	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus and Kjell Jansson! There are certainly contexts and issues where we can work together and where we look equally at the challenges. It's my experience. My entire history as a politician in both parliament and government shows that I would like to cooperate and would rather see what unites than what separates us. Although I appreciate Kjell Jansson's commitment, unfortunately, I would like to say that there have been a number of occasions when we have invited Moderates to discussions, whether it has been about basic paths, energy agreements or some other agreements, and so the Moderates jump off. The ability to hold on to agreements seems very weak in the Moderates in recent years. It's not the kind of moderate party I'm used to. The Moderates were a party that you could shake hands with and that was the case for a long time, just as Kjell Jansson testified about. I'm used to that. Experience in recent years, however, is a party that actually changes views quite often and unfortunately right now very much adapts to the Swedish Democrats. I'm worried about that. When it comes to aviation for the government and not least myself extensive discussions with the various actors in aviation. It is quite obvious in a situation where aviation is facing major challenges and where we spend more resources than ever on simply maintaining regional airports and a national flight supply. We are purchasing air traffic because the market cannot do it. We provide airline credit guarantees so that airlines can survive. Of course we are making a great deal of effort, but we also want to make sure, and I think everyone will benefit from that, that aviation is making a green start. We will ensure that it is a sustainable flight that we develop in Sweden in the future. In fact, I believe that we ourselves as individuals, as well as companies, organisations and many others, will only want to fly if it is sustainable. That must be the starting point, and I believe that aviation operators themselves share this view. Let us work in that direction!
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-416	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me questions in the field of remote air traffic control. Since all the questions concern the agreement on remote air traffic management between Swedavia AB and the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration, I choose to answer them in a context. The agreement between Swedavia and the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration has been concluded following a decision by the respective board and after referral to the Swedish Armed Forces. So it is not the government that has taken a decision on the matter. Swedavia owns the airports concerned and makes decisions on how the company's operations should be conducted. The Swedish Civil Aviation Authority performs air traffic control for Swedavia and has signed an agreement for remote air traffic management from the joint central hub for the airports in Kiruna, Östersund, Umeå and Malmö. It is therefore also the two parties who assess the timetable for implementation, technical conditions and economic consequences. Aviation safety must never be jeopardised, and responsibility for the safe and secure introduction of remote air traffic management lies with the companies and authorities concerned. The introduction takes place within the framework of current regulations and is subject to the Swedish Transport Agency's approval and supervision. Such an examination is carried out for each individual case. There is therefore no difference in the safety requirements for remote air traffic management and traditional tower services. I note that remote air traffic control or air traffic control has been operating for several years now in Sweden and in several countries in Europe.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-422	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I've asked the Minister quite a few questions. I had hoped that we would have several debates and a little longer. I'll try to stick to the most central parts of this. Let me first say that I am not against technology development. It's basically good. Technology can make things safer and cheaper than before. I think we have the same view on that. When it comes to aviation, safety is always the focus. It should be. Accidents in aviation have major consequences and the same applies when things cannot be done safely and properly. Madam President, I would like I have been following this question for a few years. The problem, as the Minister describes in his reply, is that you hide a little behind the fact that it is companies and authorities that have these responsibilities. My point is that it's state-owned corporations, and it's a government agency to which the government assigns assignments. Aviation safety is very much a matter for the government and parliament, and of great interest to the public, is my guess. When you try to follow the issue in the way it is possible to follow it, I am concerned, Madam President. Everything indicates that it will be more expensive. I have not received any evidence to the contrary. Here, trade unions and others have tried to make calculations with consultants and others. That is a great deal more for me to be convinced of this, given everything you have to do to carry this out. But, of course, if there are such figures, I accept them gratefully. What we also know, apart from the fact that it seems to be becoming more expensive, is that aviation safety is being called into question by the various players in the aviation industry. The pilots object to the technology, such as the Pilot Association's Security Council and others. Air traffic controllers are also questioning aviation safety in this regard. It was a roll call where I think it was over 600 air traffic controllers who wrote in some of the major national newspapers. What you feel is that when you object to this, you are treated in a way that you should not be treated in the industry. Here it's about being transparent, lifting up problems to the surface and making everything more secure all the time. I've been following the question. I can see that there are now two years behind, although there was no problem in rolling this out. The technology was ready. But time rolls on, and you don't roll it out. That's good. I'm not questioning that. If you have trouble getting the technology to work as you want, it's a good thing to wait. Madam President, I would like I think that the government and the Minister should take a more active approach and not only follow the issue but also act in it. Aviation safety is very much also the responsibility of the government. I think I specifically asked the Minister six questions, and I do not think the Minister will answer them. I guess I'll have to rephrase them into a question as best I can. Does the Minister think that aviation safety, authorities and state companies and being familiar and active in these matters are on his or rather on the government's table?
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-434	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Edward Riedl! I will honestly say that I very much appreciate the commitment to both remote air traffic control and aviation in general. It's really important. It is definitely an interest that not only I have; the government is responsible for ensuring that we maintain aviation safety together with all the international regulations that exist. It is incredibly important for aviation and the various actors in aviation to secure the tradition, the know-how, the experience and the safety culture that exists. The latter is not least important when it comes to the introduction and the strong development of drones in aviation. It's exactly the same thing. It is a new technological development that is taking place, and it is a new way of managing, using and controlling airspace. It is all the more important to ensure aviation safety. This is also the reason why we in Sweden have chosen a system in which remote air traffic control will be subject to the same test as ordinary air traffic services. It is the Swedish Transport Agency that has to approve. There are no other lower requirements for promoting digital or technological development, on the contrary. Air safety always comes first. It is an incredibly important starting point when we introduce new technologies, not least in aviation. The fact that there have been delays is, as far as I understand it, both because we want to ensure that the implementation is done in a good way and because the pandemic has now, as in many other areas, contributed to the delay in implementation. Both Swedavia and the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration have signed an agreement. They are the ones who will mainly answer questions about the more technical details of implementation. The starting point for the government is to ensure that it is able to meet technical standards and safety rules and, not least, to respond to the wishes and views of the Armed Forces. Therefore, the Swedish Armed Forces have been given a special opportunity to express their views and have also approved the proposals for the development area for air traffic management that Swedavia and the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration have signed an agreement on. Edward Riedl has exercised about this on several occasions, and most recently during the Parliamentary Session 2019/ 20. As I understand it, Edward Riedl has proposed that the introduction of remote air traffic control be paused. The committee has rejected that. A united parliament, including Edward Riedl's own party, has rejected that motion. Nevertheless, it should be the case in Parliament that there is a broad consensus behind the demand to reject the motion and, for that matter, to continue with the order we have. It is the authorities, and in this case the companies, that are working on the development of technology. Of course, we also have a responsibility to ensure compliance with the rules that exist in the field of air traffic. It is above all the Swedish Transport Agency that has the main task, together with the international actors and the regulations that exist to relate to.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-441	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that the pandemic cannot be blamed for this with its introduction, because it is now two years after the plan has been put in place. Of course it may have affected these months, but since the answer has always been that this is a ready-made technology that is ready, usable and can be rolled, I can only say that at least the timetable is severely broken. Swedavia and LFV do not answer questions other than by referring to that it is business secrets. Basically, however, it is about tax money and aviation safety, so I very much believe that there is a general interest in this. At least most of what I have been able to produce also shows that both pilots and air traffic controllers are concerned about this technology and the way in which it is now intended to be introduced. I can also say that, as the Minister said, this is a lot of international regulations because air travel across borders. Most of it is placed under the United Nations Agency ICAO. The International Transport Federation has today released a report expressing concern, Madam President, because the choice of road Sweden makes is linked to safety. They want security to be investigated more closely than has been done in the past. Here, my criticism has been that we should listen to the parties involved, as we do everywhere else with regard to aviation safety. We encourage and encourage, as in health care, that everything that becomes problems and shortcomings should be highlighted so that we can remedy it. It's about our lives. When we are in the air or in the hospital bed we want everything to be lifted to the surface. Here another route has been chosen that makes me concerned and that also makes many in the aviation industry – pilots, air traffic controllers and others – very concerned. Surely the ICAO will now have to take a position on what is being submitted there. And so far, as far as I can judge, the ICAO has certainly not been able to help me, Madam President-in some way signalled that one of the points I am asking is comfortable, that is to say that an air traffic controller should be able to handle several airports. That is how savings were expressed from the outset: that air traffic controllers could be used to manage several airports. I guess there's nothing – what I can see, understand or read – that would open that door even a little. Rather, in the international context, the first step also seems to be quite far to take, as technology currently stands. I understand that I will not get answers to all the questions. I think it is important – it must be my contribution to the Minister for Infrastructure – to look at the economic aspects. They are not uninteresting, and there are no answers from public authorities or state companies. The government does not seem to have any answers either. However, everything suggests that it will be more expensive. If, moreover, the parties involved claim to be concerned about security, then there is every reason in the world, Madam President, to actually take this very seriously and think about how the implementation is to be done. It is not stopping development, it is about implementing new technologies in a safe and responsible way.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-449	Madam President, I would like No, it's not about stopping development. I just note that what Edward Riedl has proposed in Parliament is to pause the entire introduction of remote control but that Parliament has unanimously rejected this. Edward Riedl's own party also supported that rejection. Nevertheless, I share the view that it is important that this is properly analysed. If new technologies are to be implemented, safety thinking must be the whole starting point. There's no doubt about it. For those following the debate, it may be important to know what remote air traffic control is and what opportunities there are. Of course there are challenges; that's how it is when you implement new technology. But it may also mean an opportunity to have more accessibility, that airports can be open for a longer period of time. Not least small, regional airports that sometimes have problems with manning can have better service and better technical conditions and opportunities for receiving aircraft. This is also stated in the report that the committee received, in which regional representatives welcome and see the benefits of remote air traffic management – not least because it means greater accessibility to airports and opportunities for increased opening up. But again – I want to be careful about that: it is not the case that there is a strategic choice or a discussion about all airports now having air traffic control at a distance. Swedavia and the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration have the task of developing Swedish air traffic control. They now work with remote air traffic management to implement it, believing that it creates increased safety and that it can also create efficiency and improved conditions for accessibility. That must be the starting point. And above all: When the Swedish Transport Agency tries this – and this is done in the same way as other air traffic services; in each individual case it is also tested – it has so far in each trial concluded that it is okay to continue with the implementation. For safety reasons, the Swedish Armed Forces have also spoken, and they support this. It is of course incredibly important, because we in Sweden have the unique situation that we have military and civil air traffic control combined. Of course, this is something that we benefit greatly from when it is effective, but it does not mean at least that it is important to hear the Armed Forces' views in this case. I can promise Edward Riedl that the moment I hear about the introduction problems or that this would jeopardise aviation safety, I am the first to pull the handbrake, because I will not accept that. The starting point is that this should lead to more efficiency, increased technical standards and increased accessibility. This is how the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration and Swedavia reason when they invest in and develop this technology. There can be no other starting point in this context.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-457	Madam President, I would like At this stage, the technology would probably have been better suited to small airports, where capacity and security could be increased given the current situation. But the implementation, as it stands today, takes place at relatively large airports – Malmö, Umeå, Östersund, Kiruna. That's a lot of air traffic. It's commercial flights, ambulance flights, transportation and much more. I've followed up the air traffic controller tower and talked to those who are working on this, both the air traffic controllers and the pilots. There's a pretty big resistance to this technology. I have also seen what it looks like up in the air traffic control towers and how to visually manage different contacts. At Umeå Airport, which I know best – I've been up in the tower a few times – you can see when the commercial flight comes in, when the ambulance helicopter is on its way and so on. The new technology will not really be able to cope with that, as it stands today. On the other hand, it is not yet implemented. It's been my criticism from the beginning, and that's why I've been raising this for a long time: I think you should listen to the parties in this industry. You should listen to pilots; you should listen to air traffic controllers. Now there is also another international body that raises concerns about security with the implementation of this technology, as it stands today. I also hope, Madam President, that this technology will become mature and possible. But how can you say that there is no plan? You build physically to get a lot of airports into this infrastructure. Had we had more debate time, I could have told you more about this. But we will have to come back to the matter, as I say to the Minister. I won't let go of it.
i-19b2ea54a3bd639b-462	Madam President, I would like In formal contexts, many representatives usually say that Sweden should be a country at the forefront of technology. We're supposed to be a country leading digitalization. We should be courageous when developing new technologies and when we make sure that Sweden takes advantage of the creativity, commitment and technical expertise available. We must also be able to show the outside world that it works. I believe that this is an important starting point whether we are talking about the pharmaceutical industry or about the transport sector. We will be a long way forward in order to find smart solutions and, not least, sustainable solutions in the climate area. I sometimes say that we should be a permanent world exhibition when it comes to implementing climate-smart technology. Within the aviation area there are major challenges in reducing emissions, finding smarter routes, switching to biofuels and electrification and finding the right instruments. However, this also means that we need to find ways to have efficient air traffic management. It is not, therefore, said that the air traffic services we have mainly today throughout the world are not good. It's very good. I have, like Edward Riedl, been in several air navigation towers and am impressed by the skills and the work that you do, not least in sometimes very stressful situations when there are several incoming planes. This may not be the case right now during the pandemic, but in general this is the case. At the same time, one should be aware that there has often been a shortage of air traffic controllers and that there have also been problems with recruitment. It may be useful, for reasons of redundancy, to ensure that there are good technical systems as well. Let us follow developments. I see advantages in that we try and develop technology in Sweden. But we must never compromise on aviation safety! That is the mission of the Swedish Transport Agency, Swedavia and of course the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration. Then we must ensure that we have a sustainable and safe flight.
