i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-4	Madam President, I would like Staffan Eklöf has asked me if the government will ensure that the fight against elm disease on Gotland continues and what is the government's long-term strategy for preserving elm in Sweden. The state has since elm disease was discovered on Gotland in 2005 and until 2018 invested approximately SEK 37 million to combat elm disease on the island. Some of these resources have been invested in the Life Elmias project, which aimed, among other things, to eradicate elm disease on Gotland and to ensure long-term natural values within Gotland's Natura 2000 sites linked to elm and ash. The project involved a pool of EU funding of approximately SEK 21 million from the LIFE Fund. The project started in August 2013 and ended in December 2018. The result of the project did not mean that the purpose – to eradicate the disease from the island of Gotland – was achieved. Today, elm disease is spread all over the island, but the rate of spread has slowed down and Gotland still has a stock of healthy elms. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish Forest Agency and the County Administrative Board of Gotland have, after the LIFE project was completed, initiated a new collaboration process in order to make a safer assessment of the conditions for success in the long-term disease control. In order to be able to make a long-term decision, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency wants more accurate information on how much elm is present on Gotland and on the age distribution of elm and elm disease trees. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency also wants a comprehensive knowledge base on the biological values of the elm. The authorities' ambition is for the data and the data to be compiled by autumn 2020. The County Administrative Board of Gotland is responsible for producing this information. Pending a decision, the Swedish Forest Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency have provided targeted funds for continued control measures that are ongoing now and until the summer. The plan is for an elm sickness inventory to be carried out during the summer. The budget decided by the Riksdag for 2019 significantly reduced the appropriation for measures of a valuable nature. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's response from December 2018 to the County Administrative Board's request for continued funding of the control of elm sickness found that the major reductions meant that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency could not finance the continued control. However, thanks to the government's restoration of the grant, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency can now finance the work that is going on this year. The authorities are therefore continuing to work on the matter and will then consider how the work to combat elm disease will be carried out in the future. The government is following the work of the authorities.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-11	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the presentation. Let me first stress the great importance of tree species for biodiversity. Hundreds, sometimes thousands, of species may be associated with and dependent on a tree species. There is no tree, nor are there the other species. In the case of elm, about a hundred species depend entirely on the tree. This makes elmen's deteriorating situation a major threat to biodiversity in Sweden. At the same time, however, the strong connection between the existence of the tree and the existence of the other species offers a great opportunity. If we manage to save the elm, we will succeed in saving about a hundred species and increasing biodiversity greatly. Then I would like to comment on the Minister's comment that the government's support for combating elm sickness ceased due to cuts resulting from M's and KD's 2018 budget. I think it's one way to mix the cards away. It is about 5 million out of about 1 billion, so it is very small money in this context. If the government wanted to find this money, it would have. We would have spent the money if we'd been in government. Let us leave that discussion and instead discuss what the interpellation is about: elm sickness and the existence of elm. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency withdrew the contribution of SEK 5 million per year to the fight against elm disease with the argument that it was estimated that it will not lead to long-term success. It was noted that all elms will disappear in the long term. So the Environmental Protection Agency gave up. Fortunately, Skogsstyrelsen and the County Administrative Board on Gotland do not want to give up. In collaboration with Skogsstyrelsen and Artdatabanken, the County Administrative Board is now carrying out a project to make a safer assessment of the conditions for success in disease control in the long term. In clear terms, it is a matter of demonstrating to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that there is a point in continuing the work. Then the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will make a final decision about the fate of the elm. Taste those words: a final decision! Unfortunately, the project is about disease control in the same way as before, which has proven to be insufficient to stop the disease but successfully to delay it. We should remember that the project on Gotland started as a project where it was hoped that elm disease could be eradicated. But it did not succeed, despite the power gathering. There is therefore a great risk that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will give up, and a long-term strategy is therefore needed other than simply continuing the fight. However, the fight must continue in order to delay the spread of the disease pending the long-term solution. At the same time, the government, I think, is watching. That's what the minister's answer says. I quote:"The government is following the work of the authorities. So the government seems to lack a long-term strategy and a solution to the problem. Is that right, Isabella Lövin?
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-20	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Staffan Eklöf for the insight he describes about the relationships between different species in ecosystems. It is indeed the basis for all wise management and all protection of a valuable nature, which, moreover, we urgently need to rethink today. It's about protecting our native Nordic species in a changing climate. Almsicken came back in the 50s and is an example of how an injury disease comes to our country from other latitudes and there is no natural resistance to it. That is something that we will see much more of as climate change and the extreme weather events and other things that they bring with them. Therefore, we need to work long-term with protection of a valuable nature. We also need to work on the strategy outlined by the Swedish Forest Agency when it comes to how we can adapt forests and forestry to climate change. In its report Climate adaptation of forests and forestry, the Swedish Forest Board has proposed a number of measures to prevent long-term and cost-effective damage, including increasing the proportion of mixed forests, deciduous forests and pine trees, as well as ensuring that the forest is stable and stormproof and has a high degree of variation. Back to the elm sickness. Now it is the authorities who are working on this issue. The government does not have strategies for individual species. The government's priority is that we should protect valuable nature and that we should have biodiversity. It is the task of our authorities to work on these issues in the most appropriate way. Of course, if they receive less money in funds, it is difficult for the authorities to be able to give priority to all areas where action and protection are needed. This applies from the state of our seas and polluted areas to the protection of individual species. When the Swedish Democrats were involved in creating drastic cuts in the environmental budget by giving their support to the M-KD budget, this meant, of course, that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency could not continue with all the activities you need to do. In this case, it was chosen to cut back on this particular appropriation. Now it has been started again, thanks to the government making money. The Swedish Democrats also continue to oppose efforts for nature conservation in Sweden. In your 2020 budget exercise, you want to cut 215 million from the government's proposal for conservation funds. There will hardly be more protection of a valuable nature with less money. That equation doesn't add up. My answer, then, is that it is of course extremely important to prevent invasions of invasive species and to protect valuable nature, but we are now waiting for the inventory and knowledge base with which the authorities work together in 2020.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-27	Madam President, I would like The Minister's focus on the budget risks being perceived as uninterested in the substance of the matter. I think we should leave the budget and focus on the issue. The reason for our budget decision will be clear in a little while. General climate adaptation measures will not help the elm to survive. Perhaps the problem is precisely that the government does not have a strategy for individual species. This should be done in the case of species on which hundreds of other species depend. We Swedish democrats want to initiate a project to solve the problem. There is currently resistance to elm disease in Asian elm populations. We want to fund research and breeding work on naturally occurring Swedish elms that make them resistant to elm disease. That would be a solution to the problem. At the same time, materials should be collected from the remaining elm populations in order to preserve genetic diversity and the genetic background arising from the interaction of the ecosystems in which the elms live. In the meantime, control measures are to be taken to delay the spread of elm disease – in the same way as now – as much as possible. Resistant elms can then be planted out among existing populations to cross with existing elms. Specific measures may be taken for these limited populations to ensure that they live long enough for cross-breeding and continuity for species living on elms. You can even vaccinate elmar one year at a time, as you do in the Netherlands. It is certainly very expensive, but if you look like strategic populations you can do anything to keep them alive. Alternatively, you make intersections at labs and plant out the intersections. There are today a number of technologies that can facilitate and speed up the work. One should work on several tracks at the same time. That's our solution. Saving the elm would be an extremely effective conservation measure. For in the order of SEK 100 million one would save about a hundred species that are completely dependent on the elm. That's a million dollars per species. This compares with the government's commitment to reserve provision in the budget. In the order of 10 billion has been invested in the last ten years, and it continues at the same pace. For this to be as effective as what we are proposing, the reserve provision would have to save 10 000 species every ten years. With that comparison, I would just like to show how effective an effort to find a definitive solution to the problem of elm disease would be in economic and biological terms and how effective it is to have a strategy for individual species. The alternative is to let the elm die out and with it all the hundreds of species that depend on it – 121, someone has appreciated it. Even the box is in bad shape, just as the minister described. Alen may be next – both species. I would strongly urge the Minister for the Environment to take the problem seriously, to seriously consider the proposals of the Swedish Democrats and to have a strategy for the individual species that are key species. This would make it possible to save biodiversity in Sweden.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-36	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by emphasising that our authorities are now working in 2020 to improve the knowledge base. I am convinced that there is also knowledge about vaccination and its possibilities. I would also like to stress, Staffan Eklöf, that it is hardly only the species of elm that has a number of other species that are interdependent. The whole of nature is designed in such a way that it is functioning ecosystems where different species are interdependent. In fact, the most cost-effective way to protect and conserve species is to protect valuable nature, where nature, so to speak, takes care of itself. It is hardly a sustainable future for humans to have to go around nurturing and vaccinating each individual tree. We need to make sure that nature is strengthened so that we have a variety that means that there is resistance to diseases, climate change, extreme weather events and other things that can affect nature temporarily. It is incredibly important, and there science is in complete agreement: we need protected areas, in the forest and in other types of nature, to strengthen the resilience or resilience of nature to diseases, pests, extreme weather events, invasive species and other things. About the Swedish Democrats' announcement here is that they intend to take money from protection of a valuable nature to vaccinate individual trees on Gotland, I think the Swedish Democrats are wrong out there. That is not to say that vaccination is excluded as a measure. As the honourable Member said, the type of vaccination used today in southern England and also in the Netherlands is something that is very expensive. You can use it for individual trees that are considered to be particularly valuable, but you have to repeat it every year. This is a very worrying situation. We can see with our own eyes how nature changes in front of our eyes right now. We have had the warmest winter measured in Sweden in almost 300 years, since the measurements began. Of course it also changes our nature. In this context, I have to say that it is extremely short-sighted of the Swedish Democrats to remove 4 billion from the climate budget at this point in time, the measures necessary to prevent the worst consequences of having four, five or six degrees warmer climates here in Sweden than vegetation, animals and ecosystems are adapted for. That is exactly what we are experiencing right now. One-and-a-half degree expansion of the global average temperature means at least double in the Nordic region – at least double. What we are seeing now is actually five six degrees warmer temperature than normal in Sweden. I have sympathy for the honourable Member's concern for the elm. I'm sharing it. But I am also concerned that we do not have strong enough climate reforms and measures and that the Swedish Democrats do not support it, when we see how nature changes and becomes more vulnerable due to climate change.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-44	Madam President, I would like Taking action for the climate and other general efforts does not save the elm or other species. That's the first thing you need to know. It has other causes, like incoming pathogens. The second is we are not taking away 4 billion in climate investments. We are investing in other budget lines. Just as we are looking for effective natural policies, we are also looking for effective climate policy. It's under other posts, and you can read it. Just read our budget one more time. We are investing in effective things, not in inefficient things that the National Audit Office has condemned. The minister hung himself up on vaccination and that it is expensive. I said it's expensive and that it should be used pending a definitive solution. But then there must be a definitive solution, and the government has no definitive solution. I thank the Minister for the debate. The first conclusion I draw is that the question of elm disease and the survival of Swedish tree species must be given greater focus by the government. The second is that the Swedish Democrats' proposal is an extremely effective environmental measure and would provide a lot for the environment per crown. The third is that a long-term solution must be found. The government must be committed to a long-term solution and not just to remedy the symptoms. The Green Party is good at creating commitment to environmental issues; I think so. But I believe that the party must be better at updating its environmental policy and at seeking the most effective solutions. You want to solve the problem. Then we must have a different effectiveness perspective on environmental policy than we have had so far. As we have debated in the past, in other interpellations, we must also take a greater interest in the negative effects that arise on other values when making investments. Almen has been with us for thousands of years. The question that hangs in the air is whether the current government becomes the government that ends this thousand-year continuity.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-50	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would really like to express my enormous concern about what is happening to our nature. Almsicken has hit not only Sweden. It has hit large parts of Europe and the continent. The subspecies of the Alm are also threatened. We have done active work on Gotland to try to eradicate the disease. The same work has not been done on Öland, where 90% of the stock has been destroyed. Here we have about 90% of the stock left. Of course it's a success. However, it is worrying that it is so difficult to combat this disease. If we are to have the opportunity to do so while addressing all the other major environmental and climate problems that are also acute right now, it is not enough to reduce the environmental and climate budget. Staffan Eklöf can stand in this Chamber and talk about other contributions. I assume he refers to international investment or research in nuclear power. It won't save elms. It will not save endangered species such as mosses, lichens, insects, birds, mammals – there is a long line. Just go to Artdatabanken's Red List and look at how many species are threatened. To then focus on a single species, say that you should vaccinate it and think that it solves it while slaughtering the environmental and climate budget with billions of crowns does not last. We need to make wise decisions today to mitigate the worst consequences of climate change, as we see with our own eyes here and now. The government is the one that really prioritises those issues, in the budget, and we are judged to have the best climate policy.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-54	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me if I a vser to take the initiative to fold when the climate crisis comes or similar information material is distributed to all Swedish households. I would like to begin by expressing support for what Jens Holm is advocating. The climate crisis is one of the greatest challenges of our time. We all need to strengthen our knowledge of what temperature rise means and what we can do to stop it and adapt to it. There are many good ways to ensure that the public has a good knowledge of the changes. The government is continuously working on this issue, and f le authorities have the task of working with information on climate change a. SMHI will for example already produce, compile and convey information and knowledge about climate change and adaptation. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has the Government's mission to make knowledge of the climate issue available to authorities, the public and other stakeholders. This work needs to be constantly developed. Therefore, at the end of January this year, the Government commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and SMHI to investigate how information and education on climate change can be improved. Through the UN climate agreement, all countries in the world have undertaken to work on this by taking measures to raise public awareness and participation on climate change issues, including by strengthening access to information and education. It is in Article 12 of the Paris Agreement. The assignment includes, among other things, that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and SMHI should identify authorities, higher education institutions and organisations that fulfil an important function linked to these issues. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will also create digital information about the Paris Agreement and how the countries' ongoing climate work corresponds to the Paris Agreement's temperature targets. Through this work, I hope that we can both strengthen access to information on climate change and create more opportunities for people to engage and contribute to the transition to a fossil-free society. Another example of information material on climate change is the national knowledge centre at SMHI that was established in 2012 to create, disseminate and make available knowledge about climate adaptation. K nskapscentr umet is responsible for, among other things, a municipality network and is behind the k limat portal which is available online. Many authorities also develop additional information and knowledge about climate change in their respective areas. In this way, the information becomes more specific from different points of view. Madam President, I would like These are just a few examples of the work being done to ensure that the public has access to information on climate change. Dissemination of knowledge is a long-term work and not something that is completed through an individual effort. I believe that we best ensure that people take in information about climate change by working long-term with several actors in society. Against this background, the government does not intend to send out the paper folder to which Jens Holm refers. We are already working to disseminate similar information through several channels. Madam President, I would like Public access to information on climate change is crucial. What you don't know anything about, you can't do anything about it. It is therefore important for our authorities to ensure that people have good access to information on climate change. And the government has taken steps to further improve information.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-62	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Environment and Climate Action for the answer to my interpellation. It's just like Isabella Lövin said before: We've had the warmest winter in maybe 300 years. Climate change is now noticeable through marrow and bone. When we are concerned that our sports break will not be as it was intended or that people will have flooded cellars, it can be seen as serious problems. But in other countries the climate crisis is an even greater fact. Hundreds of thousands of people flee homes and become climate refugees today. We know that climate change will create further extreme weather, floods, extreme droughts, rising sea levels, extinction of species and spread of viruses and diseases. The latter is a very topical issue right now. We must therefore really prevent increased greenhouse gas emissions. Sweden, which is a rich country, must take a much greater responsibility in this matter. The vast majority of the Swedish people are very concerned about climate change. I believe that we politicians have a great challenge in meeting these concerns and making it an increased commitment of the Swedish people to reduce emissions. We politicians need to show leadership on this issue. As I said, it is not only about better information to the Swedish people about the climate crisis, but also about providing hope that this major challenge can be overcome. We need to communicate increased preparedness and commitment to the climate issue. This is a bit of a parade issue for Sweden. We are good at involving our citizens. In 2018, the Swedish government sent the Folder If the crisis or war comes out to all Swedish households. The aim was to strengthen preparedness in Swedish society if we were to have a crisis situation or even war. I think that the government reasoned quite correctly in this regard. It was time for the Swedish people to be a little more prepared for crises. I'm missing something in the fold, though. There, the information is more general. It is not about the climate crisis as such. I would like the government to take a similar initiative and send out information about the climate crisis to all Swedish households about what we can all do to take our responsibility. The Extinction Rebellion organization has developed a proposal for what such a folder could look like. Of course, I do not mean that the government should send out this particular folder, but it is an example of a form of information material that the government could send out. I do not think it is enough to have worthy information on different websites, but more needs to be done. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action whether she believes that the information activities that exist today are sufficient. What further action does the Minister intend to take?
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-69	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by truly thanking Jens Holm for an important question. This is something that is at the heart of the climate debate. There may not be a shortage of information in the first place, but there is a great variety of misinformation in the debate. There are forces trying to mix up the cards for the real climate policy that we need to implement. I will begin by answering the question as to whether I think we need to do something more to provide information on the climate crisis. The answer is yes. The Government has just given an assignment to SMHI and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to both take stock of which agencies, higher education institutions, organisations and so on that may need to make further efforts to strengthen climate information and education in this area and how we can make the information more accessible to the public. It is also a matter of adapting the target group. If the crisis or war comes is a brochure that MSB was commissioned to do. It also includes the crisis, and the climate crisis and extreme weather events are the starting point for the brochure. It is not about how to avoid war but about what you do in an emergency situation and what preparedness the Swedish people need to have. I think it covers what can happen in extreme weather events, floods, fires and so on as a result of climate change. What we need to do is talk about how to avoid the climate crisis. There are many different parts in it. Some are about what ordinary citizens can do, but the large part is about political reform and how we can push on both other countries and industries and research so that you can make the necessary technological leaps. The problem is not primarily that people would not know the risks of climate change, but that there are so many different political parties who claim that solutions exist elsewhere and at some other time and that emissions reductions should be done in other countries, not here. There are those who say that there is a quick fix in any future through investment in nuclear energy or through carbon capture and storage. These are very expensive technical solutions that will solve all the problems. Others say that this will be resolved automatically through market forces. Then there are other parties, such as the Left Party, which possibly say that we will solve this through a new economic system. All of this causes a great deal of confusion with regard to the measures that need to be taken here and now. During the last parliamentary term, when the Left Party cooperated with the government, it was very proud of 80 reforms that were achieved. It is not until the end of your written summary of this that a single reform can be found that is far from being about reducing emissions. This applies to public transport in sparsely populated areas, which in itself is good. This shows the Left Party's priorities for implementing and pushing forward its policies. The Left Party does not have the power to stand fully behind the Climate Act. You can't stand behind the energy agreement. It is important that the Left Party not only talks about the climate crisis but actually also acts through real reforms.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-78	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by commenting on what the Minister for Environment and Climate Action has now mentioned. In fact, it was on the verge of being below the level of decency. She knows very well what important environmental and climate reforms we in the Left Party were involved in pushing through during the previous cooperation. As was said, there was increased investment in public transport but also rail maintenance, more investment in renewable energy and a wide range of things. No, we did not join the Energy Agreement because it lowers the tax on nuclear energy and opens up new nuclear reactors. Now we see that it does not seem to be an alternative in Sweden, and that is why we have said that we are happy to join the energy agreement. But, Isabella Lövin, let's leave that aside and instead talk about the important question of how we can involve the Swedish people in the climate issue. Like the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, I think that it is not primarily a question of adapting to the emergency situation, but of avoiding a veritable climate crisis. This is, of course, a question of reducing emissions. We need to get rid of fossil fuels and completely reshape our economy. Yes, Mrs Lövin is quite right: it is the policy of the Left Party. If we are to do this, we need increased commitment and preparedness among the Swedish people. I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action: Is there any information or communication measure that she considers to be more effective than sending out information material directly to the Swedish people? I find it difficult to imagine something that is more effective than communicating directly to the Swedish people and home to people's mailboxes so that the brochure lands at home on the table of all Swedish households. Then you can discuss it at home, at school, at work and so on. That was the purpose of the folder that expired in 2018, wasn't it? What could be more important than involving the Swedish people in the climate struggle? We've done the same thing several times. I remember Göran Persson's great project About this you may tell us with information about the Holocaust – very important! Hundreds of thousands of information books were printed and distributed in all schools and households. That is something that we in the Left Party think is needed. I think SMHI's knowledge centre is very important, and SEK 10 million per year is money. But I really don't think that's enough. The mission that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and SMHI have received and to which the Minister for Environment and Climate Change refers is also very important. When will this mission be reported? Can one imagine that one of the conclusions within the framework of that mission is actually that we need to communicate directly with the Swedish people, right into the homes, with a targeted information folder about the climate crisis? Can you imagine that being one of the results? I would like to know from the Minister.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-85	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by emphasising that the government is clear and has been so for a long time. We say clearly that we have a climate crisis. We are not humming with the description of what is happening in front of our eyes. We have a climate crisis. It is global, and we need action here and now, at home and internationally. Sweden may have the most active environmental and climate policy in the world. At least we got that award three years in a row. When international environmental organisations rank the countries' environmental and climate policy, Sweden has reached the top three years in a row. So we are doing our utmost to counter this climate crisis. It is extremely unfortunate that there is a political polarisation on an issue of our common survival. There are therefore parties that criticise SMHI's dissemination of information and want to cut that grant from SMHI. There are other parties that have strongly criticized the information efforts of the Climate Centre, which, among other things, have gone to farmers, to schools and to municipalities, because they believe that it is not effective. There is an extremely destructive debate about what is the most effective individual measure that will solve the climate crisis. It makes people very confused. Is that nuclear power? Are these actions in other countries? Is it about everyone we're going to waste sorting more? Or what is it about? In fact, it's about us turning society into the ground. That's what it's all about. All measures are needed for agriculture, for the transport sector, for industry. We are investing in all these areas and in climate diplomacy and aid. There is no single measure; society as a whole must face the greatest challenge for mankind. Then I think it is relevant that the Left Party should be happy to talk about this issue. However, when you yourself publish a list of 80 welfare reforms, reforms that you have been involved in working with the government in the last parliamentary term, only one has anything to do with climate. You did not have the power to stand fully behind the Swedish climate law. You did not have the power to support the energy agreement for 100% renewable energy. You want to go further. But the climate crisis is here and now! We do not have time to wait any further, and that is why the Green Party is in the government. That's why we struggle with beaks and claws every day to get climate reforms through here at home, internationally and in the EU – and do it for real. It is not enough just to inform about a crisis and panic people. We must also ensure that there is hope of making a real transition. Let's do that now. We see how the heavy steel industry and SSAB now convert to fossil-free steel. It could never have been dreamed of four years ago. This is thanks to government policy. We are clear that we have a climate crisis. We're giving assignments to our authorities. I believe that the most credible message comes from SMHI and from our impartial authorities, which can actually prepare a knowledge base for the citizens. We know that there is far too much politicisation and polarisation on the climate issue. It's very unfortunate. I want us to listen to science, and then it's important that our authorities have these missions.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-96	Mr President, I would like to I understand that the spokesperson of the Green Party is concerned that the Left Party is the party ranked highest by the environmental and climate movement not only in Sweden but also in Europe. I could make this a debate about the motorways that Isabella Lövin is involved in sanctioning as a government minister, about the fossil subsidies contained in the government's budget, that the government has raised the levels of bonuses – malus so that Volvo's SUVs can receive climate bonuses from the government or about Arlanda's expansion and a double flying. But let us leave that debate to one side. I can take it any day of the week with Isabella Lövin, but now I want to talk about how we communicate directly with the Swedish people to engage everyone in the climate struggle. I asked earlier but got no answer: What can be better and more effective than sending out information right out to Swedish households so that it lands on the dinner table and so that the issue can be discussed at schools and workplaces? What can be more effective than a targeted household mailing? I find it difficult to see something more effective. Then I fully agree with all the other important things that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, SMHI and others do, because I think the issue is so important precisely from the perspective that Isabella Lövin brings up, namely the disinformation that is spread about the climate issue. Then it is important that we politicians take the lead and tell them that this is a truth. More than 99% of the world's researchers say that the climate crisis is here and that we need to do more. Sweden must also do more. Again, Mr President, I would like to ask: could it be that at least one of the proposals after the investigation that has been announced actually becomes a targeted household mailing on the climate crisis? Is that something that the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action can imagine?
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-101	Mr President, I would like to In January, as I said, I commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and SMHI to review how we can improve information and also get the aspects that we need in education so that we have qualified and professional people who can work to combat emissions and ensure that we make the technological leaps and get the new societal solutions that we need to remove fossil emissions, but also how we can better inform the public. I don't want to go ahead with that investigation, but we'll see what proposals are coming. But it's not that we haven't done anything. We keep informing and the government is crystal clear about the seriousness of the issue. We have prioritised this from day one. Sweden will become the world's first fossil-free welfare society. That is something we said already in 2014. I am now very pleased to note that several other countries in Europe are waking up and going after us, such as Denmark, Finland and Austria. That's good. We need to have a qualified discussion. I am quite convinced that the media and the education system today are at a level where people know how serious the issue is. What confuses people is what measures are the best. This is where the debate lies. And that's why I'm waving your reforms, Jens Holm. That is why it is important that we talk about what the various political parties have for reforms and with what policies we should address the climate crisis. Then it is not good enough just to talk about it, but actually to give priority to a climate law, 100% renewable and industrial life – all these extremely important reforms in order to eliminate emissions here and now.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-106	Mr President, I would like to Boriana Åberg has asked me whether I intend to take any measures so that the Swedish Data Protection Authority can immediately shorten its processing times regarding camera surveillance permits, and whether I am prepared to propose further changes to the legislation to facilitate those who seek to take crime prevention measures in the form of camera surveillance. Boriana Åberg and I agree that camera surveillance is an important tool in the fight against crime and insecurity. The government has also pushed through several improvements in this area since the turn of the government in 2014. A new camera surveillance team entered into force on 1 August 2018. The new law has made it easier for our municipalities and authorities to obtain permits for camera surveillance for law enforcement and security-building purposes. At the turn of the year, the licensing obligation was removed for several law enforcement authorities. The Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Security Service, the Swedish Coast Guard and the Swedish Customs Agency are now allowed to conduct camera surveillance without the permission of the Swedish Data Protection Authority. The purpose of the amendment is to improve the possibility of combating and prosecuting crimes through camera surveillance. The government has also presented a legislative referral proposing to remove the licence requirement for camera surveillance in public transport, airports and pharmacies. When the authorisation requirement for certain camera surveillance is removed, the Swedish Data Protection Authority no longer needs to process permit applications from the stakeholders involved. It frees up resources in the Agency's licensing activities. In addition, for the financial year 2020, the Swedish Data Protection Authority received a contribution of SEK 14 million to ensure the task of deciding on a permit and overseeing the camera surveillance. The addition means that the inspection will have the opportunity to strengthen that part of the activity. The Government has also, together with the cooperation parties, taken further steps to shorten the processing times, and will propose strengthening the Swedish Data Protection Authority with additional resources in the spring 2020 amending budget. In the light of the budget addition for 2020 and the announced reinforcement and legislative changes, I expect that the processing times for camera permits will be shortened.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-112	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The purpose of the new law was to facilitate camera surveillance. The hopes were great. It was thought: Away with the county administrative boards' long processing times and sometimes arbitrary decisions, with quick handling and uniform decisions across the country made by an authority, the Swedish Data Protection Authority. But the reality was different. Processing times are longer today than ever before. The Minister said in his reply that the new law has made it easier for municipalities and authorities to obtain permits for camera surveillance for law enforcement and security-building purposes. That's not true. It has not been easier for the municipalities, on the contrary. Sjöbo Municipality applied for camera coverage of the Travel Centre. It is a place if perceived as insecure by municipal residents due to repeated bike theft, vandalism, set fire and so on. Sjöbo Municipality sent their application last February. Now, just over a year later, they have not even been informed that the case has been given a case officer. In the meantime, everyday crime is going on. Sjöbo is unfortunately not alone. Another example is Trelleborg Municipality, which applied for camera surveillance in five locations in the city centre in December 2018. They did so to overcome crime such as sexual harassment, drug crime, vandalism, violations of the knife law, and so forth. They received 14 months later a reply to the application. That's a no. They were informed that the application needs to be completed on 15 points. Could the Swedish Data Protection Authority not have notified it earlier, for example when the application was submitted? One of the points requiring additional information was the crime statistics for 2019. That is a very strange and unreasonable demand. When the application was submitted in 2018, no one could of course know what crimes were to occur at the place in question next year. You can't ask for future intelligence on the basis of the Swedish Data Protection Authority's inability to handle things on time. Another requirement was to describe the camera technology. However, given the long processing times, the technology can grow old and suppliers take in new technology. It creates an element 22. When a municipality receives authorisation for a specific camera type, it is no longer on the market. Then the question is whether the Swedish Data Protection Authority really has the competence to assess technology. I've had it in my head that it's lawyers who work there and not technicians. Another example where one has taken an unreasonable amount of time and where one has still not given an answer concerns Staffanstorp. They applied eight months ago and have not yet received an answer. I suspect that the three Skåne municipalities are not alone in their frustration with the Swedish Data Protection Authority's handling. I wonder if the Minister intends to take the initiative to change the legislation so that the municipalities can decide for themselves whether security cameras are needed.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-121	Mr President, I would like to Boriana Åberg asks me if I am going to take any action. My answer is that I am not just going to do it but that I have already done it. This year we will allocate an additional SEK 14 million to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. With the 14 million, we have more than doubled the funding to the Swedish Data Protection Authority since 2016. The number of employees at the Swedish Data Protection Authority has also increased sharply. From 2015 it is an increase from 50 to 93 employees. There's almost a doubling there too. On top of that, we have just announced new money in our amending budget. We will go in with another SEK 10 million to the Swedish Data Protection Authority in the move we made a few months ago. There, what I understand The Moderates have not announced anything in that part. So already this year there will be another 14 million and then another 10 million when we arrive at our amending budget. In addition, from the turn of the year we have abolished the police's permit requirement. This means that this task will disappear from the Swedish Data Protection Authority, which will reduce the pressure on the agency. Yesterday we presented a bill on camera surveillance in public transport. This means that we will also remove the permit requirement there. From August onwards, this task will also disappear from the Swedish Data Protection Authority. With this, the processing times will be reduced. One might ask: Why have processing times increased? This is due to the GDPR reform, which has added many new tasks to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. But it is also because, in general, we have had a very strong increase in camera surveillance as such. We now have more cameras up in society than ever before. This applies not least to the places of crime in the affected areas. It is about Rosengård, Bergsjön, Lindängen, Hjällbo, Tensta, Rinkeby, Husby and Ronna. I can continue to list places where there are now cameras up in places under crime. All of this has been added during our time. During the time of the Moderates in the government, hardly anything happened with camera surveillance. All of this has been added during our time. In addition, increased opportunities for public transport and stations will now be available. Why? Because I'm a friend of camera coverage. I see great opportunities to clear up more crimes but also to be able to disrupt, for example, drug trafficking. That is why we have pushed this development forward. There are 14 million more SEK this year for the Swedish Data Protection Authority. In addition, there is another SEK 10 million in the spring change budget. My question to Boriana Åberg is: How much money do the Moderates want to set aside for the Swedish Data Protection Authority? The answer to that question is that when you had the chance to push through a budget for 2019, which is the time when we have seen that the processing times have increased, did the Moderates of a single penny put to the Swedish Data Protection Authority? No, you didn't. In the budget that Moderates, Christian Democrats and Swedish Democrats pushed through in autumn 2018, and which then applied for 2019, there was not a crown for the Swedish Data Protection Authority. You could reduce the tax by 20 billion, but you couldn't allocate a single cent more to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. If you look at the Moderate Budget Movement from last autumn, which would apply for 2020, what do you find? Well, a cut of the Swedish Data Protection Authority with SEK 1 million for the next two years. My question to Boriana Åberg is: If she is so keen on the Swedish Data Protection Authority, why does she want to cut back on the business?
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-132	Mr President, I would like to I noted that the Minister did not answer my question whether he intends to change the legislation so that the municipalities can decide for themselves. I consider it to be that the Minister does not intend to make that change. One should see the camera surveillance in a context, namely the context of increased crime. When the Minister talks about increased camera surveillance in Rosengård and Husby, if you do not read the newspapers, you can get the impression that crime there has disappeared. It doesn't. On the contrary, crime is increasing, and people feel increasingly insecure. Most rightly question the government's ability to provide security and care for the country as a government should. Already at the end of the summer, the Minister announced that the Swedish Data Protection Authority would receive more money. This meant no change in their way of working. On the contrary, the duration of proceedings continues to be long. It takes time, and there is no detailed answer as to why the processing of an application is delayed. One might wonder if there is nothing else in the Swedish Data Protection Authority's working methods that needs to be changed. It is therefore not just a question of raising money, but of making some changes, such as showing confidence in the municipalities to make their own assessments as to where cameras are needed or not. The police do not have time to fight, investigate and prosecute more than a fraction of the crimes committed today. Since serious crimes such as murder and explosions take so much time, everyday crime — housing crimes, car theft, beatings, and so forth — ends up alongside. There the citizens are without help. Where do they turn? They're going to the county. It's the last outpost. When a municipality is not perceived as safe, you call the municipal councillor and say that you move if they do not fix the problem. It is about children not being beaten or robbed of jackets or mobile phones and cars not being burned down or vandalized. The responsibility then lies with the municipal management, who would like those who pay taxes and get it all to go around to stay in the municipality and not move around, as many residents with good pay in Malmö have done by moving to Staffanstorp, Kävlinge or Lomma. They move to other municipalities, which are perceived as safe. The government has a huge responsibility not to undermine the possibility for municipalities to carry out security work by setting up cameras, employing security guards and upholding the law and security of the inhabitants in the way they are empowered to.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-137	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to moving trends in Skåne, we know about some things. Among other things, many people move to Malmö. Then I don't know if there are so many people who want to move to Lomma right now considering how the Moderates have handled the care of the elderly there, but that is partly another issue. We have more than doubled the grant to the Swedish Data Protection Authority since 2017. We are continuing to increase the funding. We have already raised 14 million from this year's budget, which we adopted last autumn, and we have announced 10 million more. As I said, the Moderates are proposing a reduction in the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Boriana Åberg says that these are really long processing times and that we need to reduce the processing times. But if Boriana Åberg is so keen on the Swedish Data Protection Authority, why does she want to cut back? Then why should there be fewer employees at the Swedish Data Protection Authority? Does she think that the processing times will be reduced if the Moderates cut goes through? And if she was so concerned about the Swedish Data Protection Authority in 2018 and 2019 – that was when the processing times increased – why didn't you put a single crown of this in the budget that you Moderates, Christian Democrats and Swedish Democrats voted for? There was not a cent in increase, but I have had to push it through. It is me and the government that is sitting now that have been given the money to the Swedish Data Protection Authority after we came back last January. And as I said, we're doing it now. Then crime progresses in different directions. Boriana Åberg mentioned housing breaches. These are serious and integrity-implementing crimes. I am pleased that housing offences have decreased by over 25 per cent in recent years. I also think that this is an important signal to those who are worried about housing breaches. Thanks to the police's efforts against international theft gangs, which we know account for about half of all housing breaches, we are now seeing a significant reduction. Boriana Åberg talks about the crime of vandalism. There we are at about the same level with about 20 000 reported damage last year. This is about the same level as we had in 2015 and 2016. It is therefore wrong to talk only of a general negative development, at least in relation to those crimes. Then we have problems with gang crime, shootings and explosions. In the last six months, we have put in place very strong measures to repress this type of crime. I am extremely pleased to see that the government's commitment to the police is now being materialised. We have increased police training and are now training almost three times as many police officers per year as when the Moderates ruled the country. Now they're getting out of their educations. Now in a year we have increased the number of police officers by 400. Overall, we have more employees than ever in the Police Department, about 32,000. That effort will continue and, as I said, it aims to push back precisely gang structures and gang crime, which I know many are rightly concerned about. If we do not meet this, we are going to have a little longer-term concern, and it is going to be a purely systemic threat. Basically, the government's 34-point programme is against gang crime, and we will continue to work very intensively on that.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-146	Mr President, I would like to I would just like to call on the Minister to tell the people who have had their homes stripped of valuables, had their boat engines stolen and seen stolen goods being taken out of the country without anyone reacting to a decrease in the number of housing breaches and that the government has overcome theft gangs. The statistics referred to by the Minister are very easy for those who have been exposed themselves, if your children have been abused or if something else has happened because the climate in society has become much rougher and that crime has increased. Let me say something about the Moderate proposal. The proposals that you are now getting through on permit-free surveillance cameras in public transport and for law enforcement agencies were the Moderates' proposals. You did not vote for them. The Minister can look at the report on the law on camera surveillance. There was the Moderates' suggestion to make it easier to set up cameras in unsafe areas. The same should apply to municipalities and regions. Our representatives should be trusted there – that they set up cameras where it is necessary to increase people's security.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-149	Mr President, I would like to I note that we have more camera surveillance in Sweden than we have ever had before. This applies not only to the places of crime that I listed and the areas affected, but also, for example, to the police's uniform cameras. There is a pilot activity that will be gradually expanded. Police officers in external service will increasingly have cameras on the uniforms so that you simply see what happens at different times. It could also act as a deterrent to those who may be going after a police officer. These are just examples. Then comes the public transport section. We have already removed the permit requirement for the police, which further relieves the Swedish Data Protection Authority. There will be fewer tasks for the Swedish Data Protection Authority and more money for the Swedish Data Protection Authority. This means, in my view, that the length of proceedings will be reduced in the future. Camera surveillance is an important part. At all times, even when I was in opposition, I have pushed to increase camera coverage. Nothing happened in these matters during the years when the Moderates sat in the Ministry of Justice – not a single thing. Almost everything has happened in the last five years. I believe that cameras are an important instrument for the police. They can use it, for example, to disrupt open drug trafficking but also to increase the clearance of crime. I intend to continue along this path and, as I said, I intend to do so by allocating additional resources. That's the way forward. I have not received an answer from Boriana Åberg about what her and Moderates' cuts to the Swedish Data Protection Authority would have to do with the processing times in the long term. She has been guilty of that in this debate.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-155	Mr President, I would like to Thomas Morell has asked the Minister for Home Affairs what concrete measures he intends to take to halt the development of violence among children and young people. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Crime among children and young people must be tackled with the full force of society. Action is needed on a broad front to combat both crime and the causes of crime. The situation in socially vulnerable areas requires particular attention. R egeringen has developed the first crime prevention programme in 20 years, Together against crime. An important part of the programme is to stimulate early and coordinated action by children and young people who are judged to be at risk of committing crimes. Last autumn, the government presented the biggest package against gang crime ever in Sweden, the 34-point programme. It includes new tools for law enforcement authorities, punitive efforts and enhanced crime prevention. Several measures are aimed in full or in part at young offenders and there is ongoing intensive work to implement the programme and to identify further measures. The 34-point programme includes improvements to the possibilities of social services to take early and long-term action on schools and social services in vulnerable areas. It also involves, among other things, tightening penalties one for recruiting young people for crime and for crimes such as robbery and aggravated assault that are often committed in gang environments. Furthermore, the Government has decided on a broad review of the rules on investigations when children are suspected of criminal offences. A few weeks ago, the government presented a bill for the introduction of a new sanction, youth surveillance. The sanction will close a gap in the sanctioning system in cases where a young person has committed serious crime but there are insufficient grounds for closed juvenile care. Youth monitoring will be selected as a sanction for, for example, serious cases of robbery and violent crime. Already this year, the government is also providing additional funds to increase the opportunities to place children and young people with serious problems, such as criminality and abuse, in care outside the home. The central government's institutional board will therefore contribute SEK 250 million in order to reduce the fees to municipalities for the placement and treatment of young people according to LVU. The police authority plays a central role in both crime prevention and investigation. The government's goal is that there will be 10,000 more police employees in 2024. Since the start of police growth in January 2016, the number of employees has increased by nearly 3,500. It is an important part of the work for a safer society. However, tackling juvenile delinquency requires action from many actors, including social services and schools. During the last term of office, the government provided over SEK 35 billion to health care, school and care throughout the country. 100,000 more are now working in welfare. We have redeployed the allocation of state funds so that school leaders and schools with greater needs are also given more resources. The most effective way to prevent young people from choosing crime is to offer something that is better, like a good education. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has recently presented new knowledge support for the work of children and young people who commit crimes. The support provides social services and other better opportunities to identify children and young people at risk of crime and to assess the needs of early intervention. Of course, it is also important that victims of crime receive help, not least in the case of young victims. Victims and witnesses also need support to be willing and able to participate in the judicial process. In recent years, several legislative changes have been made to create a secure court environment in which everyone can provide their information in an orderly and secure manner. It has also set up an investigation which is now looking at how support and protection for witnesses and their relatives can be further improved. As my answer shows, the government has taken a large number of measures in this area, and the government is working intensively to reverse this trend.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-166	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister Morgan Johansson! Crime is a poison in society. The people affected by crime are affected by it throughout their lives. My mother was beaten down and robbed in the early '70s when she left the shop where she worked with the day's cashier. Although nearly 50 years have passed, she still reacts to loud noises, a rapid movement and such. Crimes mark the rest of their lives. We now see that young people are subjected to humiliation robbery. They are robbed of clothing and objects they wear — phones, watches, and such things. You undress them so they're naked. You even cut off the ear of one of the victims down in Gothenburg. And what has recently been going on in the media concerns a boy who was the victim of a robbery. At the end of the humiliation, the boy's mouth was urinated. It is a miserable development that we see. Society must make it extremely clear that this is not acceptable. They are young people who commit these crimes. Some are under 15 years old. The police are having a very difficult time dealing with this situation, because it is the social services who are responsible. The whole of the legislation needs to be reviewed in order to get to the young people who commit crimes. I feel that the government does not really know the structure of the criminal networks, how they work and how to recruit young people to the criminal activities. It goes a long way down in the ages. Even seven - year - olds run around as drug and weapon suppliers. Children between the ages of ten and twelve rob other children. Why do they do that? Well, the older criminals use the children for this precisely to filter out the penalty that exists. It is quite clear when you follow developments, and I am extremely concerned that we are seeing this trend in our societies. What is also happening in the socially vulnerable areas is that we have an alternative administration of justice. It is the criminals and the criminal gangs who set the conditions for the others living in these areas. It is not our democratic system that is responsible for the administration of justice, that is to say the law passed in this House, the police, the prosecutors and the courts, but the gangs that run the administration of justice. That is what we are seeing in terms of the shootings and the explosions. The conditions are dictated to the others there. I think this is a sad development. The people who live in these areas are betrayed by society unless society goes in and marks against the criminals in a very clear way: This is not good enough – you will have to take your punishment for this. Then you have to look at how to deal with these kids, who are somewhere between 10 and 15 years old and commit serious crimes. They're being trained in this way of life. When they get up in their 15s, they're full-fledged thugs. This will be extremely difficult to reverse, because then they have become accustomed to fairly fast income and money. Then it does not help to attract with any education – that life is out of the question, because you can make big money in a short time.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-172	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for the answers to Thomas Morell's questions. However, I would like to ask certain questions myself. The youth monitoring that you are talking about should include additional meetings with the criminal youth, where a sociologist tells us that you must not rob and do drugs. Electronic anklets may also be used. If the youth violates the enforcement plan, the Correctional Service shall be able to request the police to retrieve the sentenced person. Then my question to the Minister is: if the criminal youth ignores being picked up by the police, then what happens? Is he to be sentenced to further youth surveillance? I don't think these young criminals see it as a punishment to have to talk to a socionomist. What they're doing gives them status. They feel tremendous power when they can in this way frighten their surroundings — classmates and others in the area. You are trying to deal with this with methods that have been tried in Sweden for 40 years. Shouldn't it be better to start at the other end and perhaps make parents more responsible for what their children do? Is there any way to involve them more in this?
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-175	Mr President, I would like to I think we are all distancing ourselves from the serious and serious crimes of violence, no matter who commits them, whether it is young or elderly or what kind of perpetrators we are talking about. We certainly have every reason not to put our fingers between the types of crime that we have seen, such as the robbery of humiliation. At the same time, we must also be prepared to give some nuance to the discussion. There is sometimes a little sweeping talk of increased crime among young people and the fact that young people generally commit more and more crimes. There's no evidence of that. It's the other way around. The number of young people prosecuted for crime has decreased by 30 per cent in the last ten years. It is primarily theft crimes and vandalism that have been reduced. As far as violent crime is concerned, we have statistics from the health services where we see how many young people are being treated for crimes to which they have been subjected, and that has decreased by about 26% over the last ten years. There is no evidence that crimes among young people are generally increasing. On the other hand, in some groups and in some areas we have a very serious development of gang crime. There I fully share the view that it is a question of breaking the trend in time. When I talk to cops about how to do it, they almost always say three things. The first is that there must be more of them. As you know, we're investing heavily in the police. We are expanding police operations with 10,000 more employees by 2024. In the last year alone, 400 policemen have been added. There are more employees than ever in the police force, almost 32,000. The second thing they say is that they need better tools. It is about criminal law and camera surveillance, for example. Here we have made great efforts in recent years, and we will do more, not least with regard to these robberies. I want to see a system in which we can increasingly arrest those who commit these serious robberies. We did a fine-tuning for serious gun crimes. People are now being arrested automatically while they are awaiting trial. That way we get some of them off the street. I want to do similar things when it comes to, for example, robberies and other types of crimes committed by these gang criminals. But the police also say one more thing: Keep in mind that it is not just about the police! If this is going to work, if we're going to break the trend, the school and social services have to work well. These young people must also have an opportunity to enter the labour market. It's A and O for you to be able to break the trend. That is why, during the last parliamentary term, we carried out quite a lot of work in the affected areas. We provided more money, especially for school and social services. There I see, unfortunately, that the Swedish Democrats have a completely different attitude. The first thing you did here in the Riksdag in 2018 was to push through the budgets of Moderates and Christian Democrats, which removed SEK 400 million to invest in schools and social services in vulnerable areas. My questions to you will then be: Why do you never listen to the police when the police say that, in addition to the law enforcement efforts, we also need preventive action? Why are you constantly helping to cut back on the efforts that we know will work in the long term? Are you prepared to reconsider that attitude? I'd like to know.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-182	Mr President, I would like to I thank Minister Morgan Johansson for his answer. According to an article from the beginning of February this year, the crime of robbing children has increased by 100 per cent in four years. Other children are subjected to violent crimes. It's kicks to the head and body. It's punches, gun threats and stabbing with a knife. It is therefore a matter of serious violent crimes in police material. You burn your victim with lighters. You threaten to kill it. You threaten to bomb the school. Children have been bitten. Children have been torn, dragged, thrown and locked in by other children. We're talking about extremely serious crimes and violations of classmates – it's usually in the environment that these crimes are committed. But there will be no consequence for the children who do this. While social services have an extremely important role to play, the police also have an important role to play. We need to reinforce the police. Of course, efforts are taking place, but we also need to look at the pension structure of the police. In fact, it is also the case that police school places are not filled. When I meet my old colleagues we usually amuse ourselves with sitting and talking about what it looks like. Will the increase in the number of police officers promised by the government really take place in the future? There is no evidence of that at present. It will be retired police officers on a rather large scale in the future. This is a concern. The police do not always have to make a contribution or intervene. Their presence in the area is enough – it has a deterrent effect. I've been working with the traffic police as a car inspector. We were often given the task of being a bit of an actor. We went back and forth on certain roads in a painted car at certain times just to keep the speed down. It was the only task we had. There you can see the impact the police have on society. That is why it is also important to get uniformed staff out. With regard to the increase in the number of employees now taking place in the police force, it is mainly civilians who are starting. There's nothing wrong with that; if civilians get into the business, you get more uniformed staff. But I and many people with me feel that there is a little hating. You do a little bit of this and a little bit of that, but you don't have a link between you. Then you do not have the effects that you should have from the efforts you actually make. I usually amuse myself with reading about what's happening on the police side. Carin Götblad, a regional police officer you know well, has spoken out in a newspaper article on the robbery of children: But they are ordinary children who are robbed on their way to and from school, called a whore and are told that they will get a Glock in their mouths. I say we let the kids down. ..................................................... So it is a regional police chief who takes that view. I'd like to know what the government's thinking in the future. Yes, efforts are being made, but they are not being coordinated effectively, as I see it at present. I would like to hear the Government develop this.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-190	Mr President, I would like to I want to raise the case of the youth who were robbed, brutally beaten, filmed and humiliated—they forced him to open his mouth, and then they urinated on him. When these people were later convicted and much was written in the media, their parents were interviewed. The parents could never understand that their sons could do that. I have seen several such cases in the media where parents have stated that they are completely unacceptable. Why are parents not more involved in the way their children behave? Sweden has exceptional problems with these youth robberies, which I do not know about other countries in Europe. I have friends who live in Switzerland, and they have never heard of such things happening to that extent. You're just starting at the wrong end. You are proposing social contributions for the 12 to 14 year olds only. Instead, parents simply have to be held accountable and take responsibility for their underage children.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-193	Mr President, I would like to What we've been rolling out in recent years is massive, not least the investment in the police. We are expanding the police force considerably, and we are training three times more now than before. Of course, we also take into account the analysis of future retirements in order to dimension police training in such a way that there is an expansion. The Chief of State Police's assessment so far is that we will achieve the goal. Now we are also beginning to see the effects. It is true that, in the initial years, it has been about expanding, above all, civil servants. But from last year on, the police are coming out, and 400 more police officers in a single year is a sharp increase. Now in the spring there will be even more, and then in the autumn even more new, young police officers. We are looking forward to achieving the goal. There will be 10,000 more employees, and they have already increased by over 3,000. So we have already grazed about a third of the target. That's where we go in with a lot of effort. Then there was the question of punitive measures. I've pointed out a few things for this type of crime. One is to increase the arrest possibilities for robbery. Those who commit such crimes are often quite deep into crime, and they simply have to get off the street. To break the gang structure, it's sometimes about finding the leaders of the gangs, the most active. They must be removed from the street, either by criminal law or by LVU placements. Then it is possible to work with open social interventions against the tail, which often hang around the most active. That is why I would like to see an increased possibility of arrest in the case of robbery, and it is included in the 34-point programme. We announced the other day that we also want to remove the penalty reduction for young people, among other things, for robbery. There are a number of other serious crimes, such as murder, manslaughter, aggravated assault and serious drug offences, where we will remove the penalty for young people. Then we go forward with youth surveillance. I got a question from Mikael Strandman on the subject that it would be about talking to a socionomist. No, that's not what youth surveillance involves. There's a care plan, but it's the correctional system that holds the very structure. Here it's about for a period of time simply staying at home in the evenings and weekends or you have to stay away from certain places. If you break these points there are other detention measures that can be developed, such as closed juvenile care with placement in a Sis-home. It is an intervention measure for those who have not yet reached the end of youth care but where the open social interventions are too weak an instrument. Then there is an intermediate instrument. I would like to mention in particular that some of the young people, especially young people, may need to be taken out of the family environment. The family is often a very good crime prevention structure, but sometimes the family is part of the problem and not part of the solution. When, for example, there is crime in the family, an LVU must be handled. It is, on the other hand, extremely expensive for municipalities, and some municipalities are therefore reluctant to do so. We simply want to increase opportunities by reducing the costs of LVU placements. Here we will go in with 250 million from this year, precisely in order to break those structures.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-199	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister Morgan Johansson. I would like to address Mr Götblad's answer last in the article. "I think we're letting the kids down," says Carin Götblad. Efforts are good, but I usually say when I hold courses that you should see the crime chain as a time axis. If results are to be obtained on the chain, there must be no breakage or weak link to break it. I feel that the government's actions are such that it makes efforts here and a little effort there, but the links between them are too fragile. We are not achieving the results that should reasonably be achieved with the efforts that exist. Statistics show that there is a dramatic increase in this type of crime, and society does not offer resistance to stop the crimes. It is extremely important to start early with these people. We're talking about children with the whole adult life ahead of us. Then it wants them not to be recruited into criminal activities and to have a criminal lifestyle. It's much harder to break when you're up in the years. It must be done early and powerfully. I miss a clear picture from the government of what to do. You put in bets here and a little there, but the link won't hold.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-204	Mr President, I would like to Actually, it's exactly the opposite. It is we who have the whole, not the Swedish Democrats. When Thomas Morell says that it is important to start early, I wonder why the Swedish Democrats do not want to go into school and social services in the vulnerable areas. Why did you sit in this House and vote through a budget with the Moderates and Christian Democrats who cut that kind of effort by over SEK 400 million? Why would you have to cut back on school and social services in the affected areas? This is a whole. It is a question of strengthening police action, that is to say greater law enforcement, it is a question of higher penalties, to the extent that they are needed, and it is a question of taking some of the most crime-active individuals off the streets. Furthermore, it is a matter of ensuring that the family takes increased responsibility. There are no differences of opinion at all. It is also about being able to intervene, for example when parents are part of the problem itself, and we are now doing so with LVU interventions. At the end of the day, it is also a question of breaking new recruits to the gangs. The best way to do that is to ensure that social services have the resources they need. There we are clear in the 34-point programme that we are going in with money. The school should also have the resources they need. Then you have to be ready to bet. It is we who stand for that policy, but when the Swedish Democrats have voted through budgets here, you have cut back on that activity. We stand for the whole, and unfortunately you do not care what Thomas Morell is talking about, namely the importance of making early contributions. The overall picture is extremely important. With all the efforts we are now making when we roll out the 34-point programme, I am convinced that we will also see results for that type of crime.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-209	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Lindahl has asked me if, in the light of the latest reports from the Election Authority and the Swedish National Audit Office, I still conclude that any reform of the electoral ballot system is not called for. Our Swedish election system is robust, and it is difficult to manipulate and influence election results. This has been the case for a very long time, and confidence in the system is great among the general public. It is important to safeguard that confidence because the democratic legitimacy of the elections is largely based on the confidence of voters and parties in the electoral system. The Election Authority's reports from the 2018 general elections and the 2019 elections to the European Parliament state that these elections were conducted in an effective, legally secure and correct manner. The Swedish National Audit Office's conclusion of the audit is that the work on the conduct of elections is mainly appropriate. The recommendations to review the electoral ballot system submitted by the authorities are based, in particular, on the views expressed by the municipalities and on concerns that the new foreclosures will lead to long queues in polling and voting premises and thus a reduction in voting turnout. Views were also put forward in the legislative work on strengthening the protection of the electoral secret and taken into account in that work. Among other things, the provisions of the Election Act left a great deal of room for municipalities to decide for themselves how the foreclosures should be designed so that they could be adapted to local conditions. It is important that reforms that can affect the functioning of democracy and voting turnout are closely followed up. It is the government's ambition to do the same. At the same time, it is important to safeguard the long-standing tradition of not making any significant changes to the electoral system but a broad parliamentary base. The government therefore intends to set up a parliamentary committee to review parts of the electoral system in order to strengthen its resistance to manipulation. The mission is based on a material political agreement concluded in January 2019 between the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party, the Center Party and the Liberals. My view is still that there is no need for a broad review of the whole ballot's ystem at the moment.
i-JnSQJXAnuASM1BQTxb7aUf	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson for the answer to my interpellation regarding the Swedish ballot system! First of all, I can see that there is some consensus on some of the reports' conclusions and the path that the government has chosen to take. However, there are also a few points that I think need to be raised and clarified. It is true, to some extent, that the electoral system is robust and that it is therefore difficult to manipulate the election results themselves in a comprehensive way. However, this is not the merit of the election ballot system, but it is because the voting bill itself is so decentralised with local voting bills at the first election committee level and then the county administrative board level. However, the current voting system is not entirely unproblematic either. The vulnerability of the current system is, as both the Election Authority and the Swedish National Audit Office state, the electoral ballot system itself. It can rather be said that, despite the current arrangements, the elections are mainly conducted in an effective manner, but with major shortcomings and risks. I also welcome the announced parliamentary committee that will look at parts of the problem description raised by, among others, the Election Authority and the National Audit Office. Among other things, an evaluation of the latest reform is perhaps made with ballot booths, which paradoxically, since the idea from the beginning was to try to reinforce the election secret, obtained the general rating from many that it is ineffective, complicated and instead a deterioration in the reliability of the election. However, there is a part of the review requested by several bodies which has been explicitly rejected. Hence the reason for this interpellation. Why did the government actually implement the reform on ballot box? The current electoral ballot system has for many years come under severe criticism from several bodies. The criticism comes, among other things, from Sweden's own election authority, which states that the root of all problems is precisely the distribution and handling of the large number of ballot papers that must be administered. The Swedish National Audit Office's report on the election procedure, RiR 2019:35, also states that the current electoral ballot system is perceived to be the real problem. What volumes are we talking about here? For Sweden's approximately 7.5 million persons entitled to vote in the 2018 elections, 673 million ballots were printed. Not only is it an obvious and considerable burden on both the environment and resources, but it is also a huge burden on the bodies involved to administer in order to be able to conduct elections effectively and safely. What Sweden has been criticised for internationally is that with the fact that all parties have unique ballot papers, it is relatively easy to disclose the electoral secret to the voters in the polling station. Hence the quick solution with ballot box, which in many places later resulted in queues where voters who would vote had to wait for up to an hour. Mr President, I would like to Now that the government has announced the appointment of a committee, why not raise your eyes and look at the electoral system as a whole? A review without even looking at the electoral ballot system is not a sign of understanding the seriousness of the criticisms of the bodies or their appeal for action.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-226	Mr President, I would like to The election authority and the Swedish National Audit Office have been quite clear here. The fundamental problem with our electoral system is that we have separate ballot papers for the individual parties. We commissioned a RUT investigation, as we wanted to find out what it looks like in other countries in Europe. In the vast majority of countries there is a common ballot. In Norway they have separate ballot papers, but there is also the election procedure completely closed. You walk into a whale booth that looks like a shower cabin and you lock yourself in. Then you can pick ballot papers for the parties you want to vote for and vote. In Sweden we do not. We have an election procedure that's only half closed. The very moment where you put the ballot in the envelope is the end; you do that behind a green curtain. But when you're going to pick ballots, you do it in front of an open curtain. It is true that we have shieldings today that help a little. But if you want to see what someone picks, you can stand at such an angle or look at which ballots the person carries to the green curtain. In this way, part of the electoral secret is revealed. Moreover, distribution becomes very vulnerable when you have separate ballots for each party. There are sometimes activists in the distribution chain. All of a sudden, three stools of our ballots may disappear, and there will be interference in that way. The OSSE has also complained that we have separate ballots that are picked quite openly. If we have now received these recommendations, why do you not make an alexander cut and introduce a common ballot for all parties? Then all these problems disappear. Then the problems of queues that arise when people make their choice also disappear. Today, after each person has picked his ballot papers in the screened booth, an election officer has to go in and see that the ballot papers from any party have not been thrown away or that ballot papers from one party have been placed over them from another party. It leads to very large queues. In the European Parliament elections last spring, there was only one election, so perhaps it was possible to deal with it. However, in the forthcoming elections to Parliament, region and municipality, this will give rise to very large queues and probably reduce voting turnout. People are gonna be pissed they have to wait a long time. I do not understand why you do not want the same ballot for all parties.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-236	Mr President, I would like to First of all, Fredrik Lindahl states in his interpellation that the Election Authority and the Swedish National Audit Office believe that the electoral secret in Sweden is not secured. That's a false statement. It's the other way around. That claim has no coverage in any of the reports we are talking about. The Swedish Democrats themselves have made this up. As I said, the opposite is true. The Swedish National Audit Office's conclusion is that the election secret is properly protected and that it is also better protected now that we are shielding the ballot box. That's how the report is designed. A survey has also been conducted in which 96% of the voters polled said that they felt that their electoral secret was protected. That is a very high international figure, I would say. The whole basis for this interpellation is therefore wrong if you claim that the National Audit Office considers that the electoral secret is not secured. Then two questions arise. The first question is: Why do the Swedish Democrats want to spread this picture? The answer, of course, is that this is part of a larger strategy to try to undermine confidence in democratic institutions. You're not the only one. On the contrary – we see a pattern in this. It is hardly a coincidence that we have recently begun to see more of both the spread of rumours about electoral incidents and a campaign of appeals to try to influence confidence in the electoral system as well. I think the background is that SD didn't get as many votes as you thought you were going to get in 2018, and you blame this on the ballot system. The second question that appears is: don't you think we're looking into this? You won't get away with doing this. You say that a statement is in a report and that there is an interpellation about it, and then it turns out that there is no coverage for it. This is not a municipal committee, where you might be able to get away with such claims. This is the Riksdag, and here we are looking into any possible attempts at bluffs. Let's just call them. This SD must know when the party is setting interpellations. I'll turn to the point. We have no plans to redo the entire electoral ballot system – we have no plans to do any alexander hems, as it was called. The electoral ballot system we have in Sweden is well-established and well known by the voters. It has been in place for decades, and everyone knows how to do it. The advantage of this is that it is extremely simple for the citizens. You take a ballot for the party you want to vote for. You check a person if you want to do it; if you do not want to tick that person, leave it. Then you put your ballot in an envelope and go to the election officer. It is extremely simple, which is a huge advantage of the ballot system we have. In my opinion, this simplicity guarantees a high turnout, which we have here in Sweden. When you compare the Swedish Democrats with other countries, you often end up in countries that have a significantly lower turnout. There are many different reasons for this, but everything that makes it more complicated to choose – for example, to keep track of whether to write a name yourself or whether to write a number for any party or candidate – helps to increase the hassle. This also increases the risk of a reduction in voting turnout. We're not going to redo the whole system. On the other hand, we will make sure to resolve some issues that we have not solved before, including how it will be easier to keep the electoral secret for the visually impaired. We will also evaluate the reform with shielded ballot systems. This is included in the January agreement, and we will set up such an investigation. However, we will not be reviewing the whole system.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-248	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by responding to the Minister's assertion that I have said untruths here in the speaker's chair. What I mentioned in my speech in the interpellation debate was that we have received international criticism in relation to the electoral secret. I did not refer to the reports, as you, Morgan Johansson, claim. What I have so far explained becomes even more clear when the election authority reports on the desperation of the need for a revision of the electoral ballot system. The election authority has in its report asked for a review of the electoral ballot system as a whole. They want to see the aim of a simpler and better system. They also want to see neutral, i.e. joint, ballots used. This system would involve printing one ballot per election and per person. The electoral authority would like this to be considered in particular. I would think that most of us here, including the Government, understand what a vulnerable situation the electoral authority is in and how urgent it is to review the electoral ballot system in order to remedy the existing shortcomings ahead of the forthcoming elections. In the latest report from 2019, we can read the following: The election authority shares the problem picture expressed by the municipalities, especially the concern for the upcoming elections in 2022. The question of ballot papers has become an unsolved problem in the electoral administration where the basic problem, i.e. the large number of ballot papers, is never solved. As long as Sweden has so many different ballots that are presented and distributed in different ways, different problems will arise. Therefore, the election authority's assessment remains that the election ballot system is the most important thing to change when it comes to Swedish elections. ..................................................... This is as close to an authority as may come to express in writing a desperate appeal to, among other things, the government for future action. Mr President, I would like to In this situation, reviewing the electoral ballot system would be natural and, in my opinion, necessary to overcome the growing criticism, which is detrimental to the legitimacy of the elections. Changes in this area must take place with thoughtfulness and care. The Government Morgan Johansson and the Government receive clear and straightforward reports from, among other things, the Election Authority regarding this. How, then, is it that they miss this opportunity to start development? If we are to achieve an improved order that is anchored in the parties of the Riksdag, this process should begin as soon as possible. Does the Council of State, in view of the scope of the Committee, have any thoughts on how we can at least resolve the most critical parts of the 2022 elections? And what are the concrete reasons why we do not want to look at the electoral ballot system? ( PALMANN: I was still noticing that I heard you in this post. As I said, we don't use that over the floor. )
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-258	Mr President, I would like to I am a little perplexed about why you so much want to stick to this system, Morgan Johansson. I think you want it because you have something to gain from it. There may be new parties that are a bit controversial or stigmatised, as the Swedish Democrats have been. Then there is something to gain from the fact that those who cast their vote on the Swedish Democrats will feel an discomfort that a neighbour, a colleague or the person's boss may see what ballot the person takes. That benefits you, and you think that, Morgan Johansson, is good. You think that's good. I think that is one of the reasons why you do not want to change this. You would solve a great many problems by introducing a single ballot for all parties.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-261	Mr President, I would like to I will start with the question of what Fredrik Lindahl has actually written in his interpellation. It is enough to read before– here he writes that the election authority and the Swedish National Audit Office in their reports conclude that the election secret is not considered secure. I say that this is not the conclusion of the reports of the National Audit Office and the Election Authority. Rather, the conclusion is the opposite. Not only is the electoral secret, as it expressly says, properly protected, but it is also better protected now than was the case before we introduced the shielded ballot boxes. So the basis for the interpellation is – once again – wrong. One cannot try to read different reports in the very way that one might want to do and pretend that the conclusions are something else and believe that one should get away with it in a debate in the Riksdag. That's not how it works. If you try to bluff, you get called. What, then, is good about this system? It is simple for the citizens. You take a ballot for the party you want to vote for. If you want to tick, tick; if you don't want to tick, you don't want to. Then you put the ballot in an envelope and go to the election officer. It is considerably simpler than many other systems, I would say. How SD can solve the practical concerns with a common ballot actually transcends my mind. I don't know what you had in mind. In the last elections, 79 parties with more than 6 000 candidates were nominated. What will a common ballot be like then? How is it to be solved in practical terms? Or is it supposed to take a ballot, put a number for the party you want to vote for and then write the name of the candidate you want to vote for? The SD must realise that this is considerably more complicated and difficult for citizens than the current system is. Simplicity for citizens is the most important thing. In answer to Mikael Strandman's question, I can only say that we have a system in which all parties are dealt with in the same way. It doesn't matter whether you're in Parliament or not. Should one have a common electoral register, where one should only set up the parties that are currently in the parliament, other parties would be excluded. You can't do that; it's going to be wrong. The system we have treats all parties in exactly the same way and is fair in that sense. No, Madam President, the system we have is well-established, and I believe that guarantees a high turnout. There are many reasons why we have such a high turnout in Sweden, and I think one of the reasons may be that it is a very simple and straightforward system for citizens. Everyone knows how it's done. To redo the whole system would, I think, only risk increasing the hassle and thus reducing voting turnout.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-268	Madam President, I would like When it comes to reading inside and so on, I have before me the election authority report, which mentions precisely the deterioration of the electoral secret. Some voters have experienced a deteriorating electoral secret. The envelopes are distributed after the ballot. There has therefore been a need to go with the ballot papers open in the room. In some places where the ballot envelopes are distributed before the ballot papers, many voters have prepared their votes behind the foreclosure and not behind the election screen. Finally, it can be said that the Swedish National Audit Office's review report, based on the opinions of the municipalities, concludes that the actual problems are precisely the ballot papers. Many municipalities believe that a review of the ballot papers is the issue that should be given the highest priority when reviewing the electoral system. They also feel that it is of great importance that a change takes place as soon as possible. The Swedish National Audit Office also considers that one way to remedy the problems reported in the report could be to replace our current ballot system with a system consisting of fewer ballot papers. The Swedish National Audit Office further says that in order to determine what an alternative ballot system could look like and have the opportunity to analyse the consequences of such a change, the issue is required to be further investigated. One way of doing this is in a parliamentary committee. When two heavy bodies, such as the Election Authority and the National Audit Office, are united, there should be every reason or excuse in the world to start looking at the problems and shortcomings that have been identified in today's electoral system. The question that can be asked after this interpellation debate is whether Morgan Johansson has the intention to do just that.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-273	Madam President, I would like No, I have probably been quite clear in this debate that I do not intend to make a major change of system in the handling of ballot papers. The conclusion in the reports of the Swedish National Audit Office and the Swedish Election Authority is that the election secret is properly protected in Sweden and that it has also been reinforced with the reform we carried out with shielded ballot stands. It stands in stark contrast to what Fredrik Lindahl says in his interpellation, where he writes that the election secret is not considered safe. So that's not true. Elections are not for municipalities or for the Election Authority. The choice is for the citizens. What is important is that we safeguard the interests of our citizens. I would like to say that the system we have, which is well-established, simple and straightforward, ensures that we will continue to have quite a high turnout. And it is of very great and important value in a democracy to have a high turnout in order for this particular House to be representative of the citizens. If we go a path that increases the hassle and then risks reducing voting turnout, the legitimacy of this House will be reduced. I certainly do not want to see such a development. That is precisely why I am working on the system that we have today. Then I would like to resolve some issues related to this, such as how the election secret of the visually impaired can be better secured. I also want to evaluate the foreclosure at ballot boxes but not change the whole system. A parliamentary committee will review these elements but not the whole system.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-279	Madam President, I would like Mikael Strandman has asked me if the government will review the laws, with preparatory work and other things that are required, to update them so that ethnic Swedes are not treated negatively when they are exposed to hate crimes and discrimination. In the interpellation, the crime is discussed incitement to racial groups and the penalty rule that means that it should be taken into account as aggravating if a motive for a crime has been to violate a person or group because of, for example, national or ethnic origin. It is argued that these provisions would deal with offences against Swedes in a special way. That is not the case. As regards the penalty rule, it follows neither from the rule as such nor from its preparatory work that a hate crime against a person of Swedish origin should be regarded as less serious than a hate crime against a person from a minority group. The preparatory work states that the reasons for which the provision should most often be met should exist in cases where crime is directed against minority groups. However, it is also stated that the provision should, of course, also apply to other offences committed with such discriminatory motives. As an example, it explicitly mentions situations where someone of foreign origin attacks someone else precisely because it is Swedish. The fact that crimes against minority groups are actually more common therefore has no bearing on the use of the penalty rule. Nothing in the preparatory work suggests that crimes against Swedes should be seen as less serious. As far as incitement to ethnic groups is concerned, it is true that the Chancellor of Justice has previously stated that cases where someone expresses criticism of Swedes should not have been meant to be hit by the penalty. However, in a referral opinion issued in 2016, the Chancellor of Justice has stated that, should the matter arise again, there is reason to consider carefully the meaning of that position. Both the Government and the Riksdag have stated that incitement to Swedes is punishable. In 2013, the Parliament took a position on motions for a review of the hot crime in order to ensure that Swedes are also covered by it. The Committee on Legal Affairs stated that it should be clear that the criminal code's provision on incitement to ethnic groups covered the situations that the motions were about, namely incitement to Swedes. Parliament supported the committee's report and rejected the motions. The Government has had the same interpretation as a starting point in legislative work both before and after the Parliament's position. I cannot therefore see that the current provisions would treat Swedes differently. They do not therefore need to be reviewed.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-288	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the expected answer! I have here in my hand 20 convictions against people who have written shit online, usually about Muslims, and been convicted of inciting ethnic groups for this. It's lyrics like, it's not Swedes that group rapes, they're Muslims. ..................................................... It took me a few minutes to google these, and the convictions can be counted in several hundred. But nowhere, no matter how much I looked, I found a single sentence where someone was convicted of hate crimes against Swedes as an ethnic group. Never in Swedish legal history has any person been convicted of hate crimes against Swedes. I was tipped about a case in Norrköping District Court from 2015 where a person was charged with writing the most racist and inciting about ethnic Swedes that can probably be written down. What he wrote and was prosecuted for was among other things: Every Swede is a potential sex offender. Swedes are vermin, disgusting vermin. It would be only right for all Swedes to be exterminated. ..................................................... The man was acquitted. In the judgment of the District Court of Norrköping, the court has assessed that Swedes are covered by the provision on incitement to a population in the Criminal Code. However, more is needed for statements on the majority population to be punishable than is required in relation to statements on minority groups. The essence of the district court's reasoning is therefore that the rule of incitement against ethnic groups can theoretically be applied to statements about Swedes, but that much more is required for statements about majority groups such as Swedes to be inadmissible. The words that Swedes genetically are sex offenders and should be eradicated are therefore not enough, so the Government's assurance that hate crimes can also be committed for crimes against Swedes is only a small part, in theory. In reality, the thresholds for what may be said and done to Swedes here are much higher, apparently so high that to this day no hate crime against Swedes has led to conviction. It has never been as dangerous in modern times to be Swedish youth as it is now. So far this year, it has been more the rule than the exception that there are daily reports of various crimes against young people, one more disgusting than the other. Assault, rape and aggravated robbery are today part of everyday life for Swedish young people around the country. The new black for young people growing up in Sweden is to feel a constant concern, a concern that is not limited to the risk of just being robbed of their mobile. Young people know that they risk being seriously beaten and humiliated even if they do everything to meet the robbers. Despite the fact that these developments have been visible for a long time, various governments have so far not taken adequate action. Moreover, the fact that most of the crimes concerned appear to be out of deep contempt for Swedes as a group hardly makes the problem any smaller. This form of Swedish hostility, which takes the form of serious crimes against young Swedes, is likely to become a growing problem if the government does not act immediately. We are now seeing an escape from vulnerable areas from Swedes. Those who can afford to choose to move where they do not have to worry constantly about their children. Everyone who's a teenage parent knows exactly what I'm talking about. In a country where polarisation is already greater than ever, this does not bode well for the future. So please, for the sake of the country and for the sake of justice, update these obsolete laws! Sweden does not look like it did in the late 40s, a time when Swedes were in the majority everywhere in the country. Sweden is today a multicultural country with large areas where Swedes are in a minority. It is your duty to protect them and everyone else, regardless of ethnic origin.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-301	Madam President, I would like This is once again a classic SD grip. You grab a claim out of the air and hope no one calls the bluff. As I was on earlier, it goes there in a municipal committee somewhere but not in the Riksdag. It is claimed here that the legislation does not cover incitement to Swedes for ethnic reasons. It is also claimed here that the penalty rule cannot be applied in these cases. Both of these claims are false. It is clear that the penalty rule can also be applied when the victim is Swedish and when someone is attacked with those motives. The fact that Mikael Strandman does not find any judgments on it is not an argument that this does not apply. It's in the law, and when a prosecutor can prosecute for it, the prosecutor will do the same. A district court has no practical effect, but it is first higher courts that decide how this is to be interpreted. However, both preparatory work and legislation are very clear in that it can also be applied in these cases. The same applies to legislation on taxation. Here Mikael Strandman refers to an almost 20-year-old JK statement. However, he forgets to say that JK has signalled a reconsideration of this position. Above all, he forgets to mention that the Parliament has made a strong statement on this issue. This was done in 2013, and I know that very much because I was chairman of the Committee on Justice at the time. That report is clear: the Hets legislation can also be used in cases where it is a matter of incitement to Swedes. This view has also been taken by the government in all the legislative proposals that we have submitted to Parliament and which have touched on this type of issue. Then, of course, the question arises: Why does the SD want to try to bring out at all costs the idea that this legislation does not cover these cases, even though the SD actually knows that this is the case? I think it's because SD simply doesn't care about sticking to the truth. The only interest of the Swedish democrats in this is that they themselves should be able to continue to incite immigrants in different situations. Therefore, you want to spread a picture of that it is allowed to incite Swedes. But it is not. It's deeply wrong. Basically, it is not these crimes that the Swedish Democrats are against, but the immigrants, and therefore they are pushing the discussion in this way. Let me be clear. It doesn't matter to me whether you're black or white. If you commit crimes, you should be caged, and if you commit crimes with hot and hate motives, you should be caged even further. This applies regardless of who the crimes are aimed at and who is carrying them out.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-310	Madam President, I would like But is it not strange, then, the Government, that there has never ever been a single conviction where the victim has been ethnically Swedish? No one has ever been convicted of such a hate crime. If it's like the government says, there should be some conviction. We have a situation today where a lot of pensioners are convicted of a lot of shit they write online. It is Swedish pensioners who often incite Muslims. But we never have the reverse. I haven't found a single case. Even though in the media there are reports of terrible acts of humiliation even being filmed and where the robbers break the victim to pieces, force the victim to kiss the robbers' feet, call the victim a nasty bastard and urinate the victim in the mouth nothing happens. I have to say, it's weird. The Government says that it is certainly possible to apply this law when the victim is Swedish. In theory, yes, but it does not exist in practice. I'm not a lawyer, but I guess it's the writings in the preparatory work that make it that way. In a pre-work on hate crime legislation, the need to restrict the freedom of expression of statements against majority groups should not apply to the same extent as to minority groups. ..................................................... I think this is wrong. Today's Sweden does not look like it did in the late 40's when these laws were established. At that time, Swedes were in the majority everywhere in the country and in society. This legislation came into being to protect minorities after the horrors of World War II. But as I said, Sweden does not look like that anymore, and although Swedes are in the majority overall in Sweden, we have large areas where Swedes are absolutely not in the majority, but in the minority. I think that whatever ethnic background a person has, it should be completely unacceptable to go to this person in this regard. It should apply equally to everyone. The law is also much more accepted by everyone if it is actually equal for everyone. Does the Government not agree with that?
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-316	Madam President, I would like It's the same for everyone. That's exactly what I'm saying. But it seems that Mikael Strandman does not care – although there are preparatory work, statements and parliamentary reports that repeatedly say that it is the same rules that apply, that the penalty rule also includes if someone, for example, commits hate crimes against Swedes and that the hate law can also be applied in these situations. This is the case under both legislation and preparatory work. Mikael Strandman says there are no convictions. This may actually be due to the fact that the opposite is much more common, i.e. that the minorities in Sweden are exposed to far more racist complaints and hate crimes. What the Swedish Democrats feed on and who define the Swedish Democrats is to constantly try to push forward increased conflicts between Swedes and immigrants and paint immigrants as particularly criminal, especially dangerous and people who should not really be here. That is the essence of the policy of the Swedish Democrats. As I said, it does not matter to us from the point of view of criminal law. If you are Swedish and inciting immigrants, you should be judged for that crime. If you are an immigrant and you are inciting Swedes, you should also be convicted of that crime. Legislation should be neutral in this respect, and I argue that the legislation is. I am strongly opposed to the constant attempts of the Swedish democrats to break in wedges and increase polarisation between Swedes and immigrants. It is therefore almost hilarious to hear Mikael Strandman worried about a polarised debate when the Swedish Democrats are the party that stands the most to incite and undermine trust between different ethnic groups. I do not know where Mikael Strandman has got the message that it would be Swedish pensioners who are most inciting Muslims. That's not my picture. Perhaps Mikael Strandman has some evidence of this or it is, as so much else, gripped out of the air.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-322	Madam President, I would like Even if it were the case that there are more incitement crimes against people with non-Swedish background, should there still be some conviction where a person has been inciting someone who has a Swedish background? There should be such a judgment among all these hundreds of convictions, but there is not one. This is because the legislation in theory says that it should be equal for everyone but that it does not happen in reality. I have absolutely not said that immigrants generally commit such crimes, but it is a small minority that engages in it, just as it is a small minority of Swedes who are engaged in inciting others. But I think it should be the same for everyone, and this should be stated practically in our courts of appeal and courts of appeal. It should not be that there are only convictions when someone with a Swedish background is inciting someone with a foreign background and there is no conviction when it is the opposite. Again: I think you should look at the pre-work, Morgan Johansson, and change these so that it is fair and equally condemned for everyone, regardless of the direction it is aimed at. Then I think that the legislation will be more acceptable, if everyone feels that it applies equally to everyone and that no one should ever be incited or discriminated against because of their ethnic or religious background.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-325	Madam President, I would like Like I said, it's the same for everyone. It is clear from both preparatory work and parliamentary reports that this is the case, and that is the basis on which the courts have to judge. Then, like all other crimes, a document must be proved in order for it to hold a trial. There are a large number of reports of incitement or hate crimes against immigrants which have also not led to convictions because they have not been able to prove that this was the case or that the purpose was. This is also a major concern in some cases. We have reinforced police efforts in the area of hate crimes. We have new hate crime groups in the big cities now, and we also have an organisation covering the whole country. These hate crime units will, of course, work with both parts if it gets that far. This applies both if you find cases where people incite or attack Swedes and if you find cases where people incite or attack one of the minorities. Legally speaking, this is equal treatment, and this is important to be clear about. Thus, the basis for Mikael Strandman's interpellation falls. If you go back and look at what it really looks like in both preparatory work and committee reports, you will see that that is the way it is.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-329	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked me why I and the government have not taken sufficient steps to combat the problem of the use of coordination numbers and what I intend to do about the problem in the near future. I welcome the recent debate on coordination numbers and the questions that Fredrik Schulte has now asked. It is clear that the knowledge of coordination numbers is very low in society, and there is therefore reason to clarify what a coordination number is and what it is not. Coordination number is an identifier for persons who are not or have been registered in Sweden. A coordination number may be assigned at the request of an authority if that authority needs a number in its activities to avoid confusion or to exchange information about the person with other authorities or organisations. A coordination number does not confer any rights or benefits in itself. It is not the coordination number that justifies payments from the welfare system or gives the right to health care in Sweden. The coordination number is not a work permit and does not give the right to enter Sweden or to stay here. In addition, a coordination number is not sufficient for someone to open a bank account. Co-ordination numbers, on the other hand, fulfil an important function by, among other things, meeting the needs of authorities for an identifier for persons who are not or have been registered in Sweden but who still need to be registered. This need exists even if there is uncertainty about the person's identity, for example when a person is to be registered in the suspicion register or in the tax database. For about half of all coordination numbers there is uncertainty about the identity of the person and the need for these so-called unruly coordination numbers by the authorities is therefore not insignificant. However, it is clear from the population register which numbers have been certified and which have not been verified. However, the system currently has shortcomings, and it is necessary to tighten up the rules in order for our registers to contain accurate and up-to-date information. Coordination numbers shall be correctly issued and persons who have been wrongly assigned a number shall be deregistered. The Ministry of Finance has therefore recently referred to a memorandum with proposals aimed at strengthening the coordination number system. This includes the possibility for persons with coordination numbers to be deregistered automatically after five years if a continued need for the number has not been notified. An individual who reports such a continued need may then have to report in person. All persons assigned the coordination number before 2016 are proposed to be deregistered at the end of 2021, unless an authority or the individual has notified that there is a continued need for the number. However, cancellation should also be possible sooner than that. The Swedish Tax Agency is proposed to decide on cancellation if there are special reasons for this, for example if a person has been assigned a number on incorrect grounds. It also introduces a requirement that the current contact address of the individual should be reported to the Swedish Tax Agency. The proposals which have now been referred together constitute a reboot of the entire coordination number system. The restart is done in an orderly manner, taking into account the need to avoid confusion and retain historical information. Finally, I would like to mention that the government has also set up an investigation to review the entire coordination number system. The investigation shall report on its mission by 1 April 2021 at the latest.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-338	Madam President, I would like Anyone who listened to Magdalena Andersson and her speech can note that she spent about half of her speaking time explaining that this coordination number is not really a huge problem and that it is a lot of exaggerations and errors that are being brought forward in the debate. In the close of the second part of her speech, Magdalena Andersson explained that there may be some problems in the margin to be corrected, and then one should beat the chest for the proposals that have been put forward. I think that illustrates quite well how the government does not take this issue seriously. Madam President, I would like Earlier this morning we have debated issues of criminality and how Sweden sees a development with criminality that we have never seen before, how children are subjected to degrading robberies and assault attempts and sometimes even worse, how blasts sound across large parts of our country and how gang criminals shoot people on the open street. These are problems that we do not see in the rest of the Western world. In the majority of the Western world, we see decreasing crime. We do not see this development in Norway, Denmark or Finland. This is a problem that has been severely accentuated in recent years here in Sweden. At the bottom of this lies – I think this is clear to everyone – a failed migration and integration policy, but there are also a variety of factors that play a part and that fatten and breed crime. One such factor is the coordination numbers. Coordination numbers are, a little simplified, personal identity numbers for people who are not registered in Sweden. We have a situation where about 400 000 people have such coordination numbers but where we have not proved their identity. This leads to a number of problems. It leads to trade in false addresses. Criminals thus sell false addresses so that people with coordination numbers can declare to authorities that they have an address. At the other end, this is something that makes it easier for criminals to operate in Sweden. The IRS conducted a review in which they found that 80 criminals were written at one and the same address, including a convicted killer. The lack of control of the coordination number is something that allows you to have multiple identities at the same time, which means that you can apply for double grants and that in different ways you can find it easier if you want to work as a criminal in Sweden. The lack of control also makes it easy to trick employers into having permission to work in Sweden even though they do not have it. This is an obstacle to a functioning migration policy. Not least, this abuse with the coordination number is something that has caused us to see an accumulation of vehicles registered on the coordination number. In 2018, the Swedish Transport Agency concluded that a total of 36 000 vehicles were registered on 700 coordination numbers. These are vehicles that are in all likelihood used by theft leagues for organised crime. This is not something that Magdalena Andersson mentions. She says that there may be some problems in the margin of this system but that it is corrected. It's nonsense. Magdalena Andersson does not take this problem seriously, just as her colleague, the Minister of Justice, showed here earlier that he does not take problems seriously but tries to explain them away. We need to address the problems of coordination numbers. We need to reset the system. We must force everyone with coordination numbers to appear at the Tax Agency, to prove their identity and to provide biometric information so that they cannot have dual identities.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-350	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte began his speech by saying that I have said many things that I have not said. I would like to indulge myself in future to have words put in my mouth that I have not said. I do not think this is an appropriate way of conducting the debate in the Reichstag. It is also inappropriate in the debate to increase confusion about what the coordination number is, as Fredrik Schulte has done in his speech. It is very unfortunate that MPs in the Swedish Parliament are either so ignorant that they do not know what a coordination number is or that they contribute to increasing confusion in the debate. When we talk about the coordination number, he tells us that 80 people are written at the same address. This means that Fredrik Schulte either deliberately disseminates incorrect information or does not know what the coordination number is. If you are written at an address in Sweden, you have a personal identity number and by definition you do not have a coordination number. He's talking about trading in fake addresses. Again: People who have coordination numbers do not have an address in Sweden that they are written on. In that case, they have a social security number. He says that coordination numbers can trick employers into having permission to work. It is very unfortunate that the Member of Parliament is contributing to the picture that a coordination number can also be a work permit. This discussion does not benefit from further confusion and the contribution of Members of Parliament to it.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-355	Madam President, I would like The speech that we have just heard from Magdalena Andersson is an example of when politics is absolutely the worst. This is very speaking for Magdalena Andersson's style of debate. It is also typical that in the middle of the debate she goes off to get water in a disrespectful way. What Magdalena Andersson just said in her speech is a hundred percent nonsense, a game of words to try to ignore that she herself does not deal with very serious social problems. If I happened to say that a person with a coordination number is written on an address, I apologise very much, Madam President. The bottom line is that if you have a coordination number and state that you are available at an address in Sweden, it means that for example you facilitate the possibility of obtaining a work permit even though you are not entitled to it. The Minister of Finance claims that coordination numbers are something people only have if they are not within Sweden's borders. What is the Minister of Finance trying to say? All the fog curtains she is presenting are about trying to reduce the problems that exist and trying to hide the fact that the government is not dealing with serious social problems because it is sitting on a parliamentary basis with the Green Party and the Center Party who do not want to take these problems seriously. I would like to repeat the arguments I put to you in my first speech and to put a few questions directly to the Minister. Does she mean that these problems don't exist? Does she mean that there is not a problem with a lot of people who have coordination numbers that are convicted criminals and who state the same address as contact with authorities? Does the Minister of Finance mean that this problem does not exist? Does the Minister of Finance think that there is no problem with the fact that, with the help of coordination numbers and the poor control of coordination numbers, false identities can be found, so that double contributions can be collected and that, in various ways, life as a criminal can be facilitated? Does the Minister of Finance mean that the problems of the coordination number and the accumulation of a lot of vehicles on the same coordination number do not exist? According to the Swedish Transport Agency, 36,000 vehicles were registered on 700 coordination numbers in 2018. Does the Minister of Finance think that the problem does not exist with the fact that a coordination number can make it easier to deceive an employer into having a work permit even though they do not? Is it the only thing that interests the Minister of Finance to stand and be a little pouty in the speaker's chair and try to squeeze a political opponent into it? Is this the only thing the Minister of Finance is interested in? She has not ever mentioned the real problems that exist with the coordination numbers and how they facilitate crime and exacerbate the development of society in Sweden. Let me repeat once again: we must make the coordination number system null and void. The Moderates have suggested that a person must report to the Tax Agency and confirm their identity and provide biometric data so that it is possible to prove that this person is really the person it says it is. That is what needs to be done to tackle this problem. But Magdalena Andersson is just standing here fooling around in the speaker's chair. I think it is a disgrace in this Parliament.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-362	Madam President, I would like What I am trying to do in this debate is to clarify, so that the misconceptions surrounding coordination numbers should not continue to flourish. The worst thing that exists is if, moreover, employers, because of misconceptions, hire people who they think have a work permit because they have a coordination number but do not have it and thus commit an illegal act and risk being punished for it. It is very unfortunate that the Member of Parliament, Fredrik Schulte, is standing here in the speaker's chair and is contributing to this confusion. He says that you can get double contributions by having multiple identities. This is a very big problem, but not with the coordination number because the coordination number itself does not give entitlement to grants. Most of the grants we have in Sweden are based on residence and require that you have a registered address and therefore have a social security number. The investigation that has looked at cheating with our welfare systems has concluded that the cheating related to precisely the coordination number is very limited, but I do not remember the exact wording. I have led a great deal of work to prosecute the fraud of subsidies. However, it is not coordination numbers with which the large amounts are linked, but entirely different forms of fraud. Here I think it is important not to miss the target. I have proposed a reboot of the coordination number system, because I think it is important that we have order and order in the registers that we have. I am not naive enough to believe that robberies, beatings, blasts, theft leagues or fraud in grants are being solved with that measure, but there are quite different measures required. The government is working very intensively.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-366	Madam President, I would like I think it will be almost tragic when the Minister for Finance is in the speaker's seat and says that she is trying to clarify the debate. All she does is put out fog curtains to hide the fact that she is not dealing with serious social problems. She was trying to make herself a little smudged that I said, possibly wrong, that people who have coordination numbers are written at an address. In my next speech, I pointed out that what was of course referred to – as anyone should understand, even the Minister for Finance – was that the same convicted criminals provided the same contact address. After that she did not address that question, for, as I said, she is not interested in dealing with the serious social problems; she is just interested in building up a chimare that she is doing something of relevance. She then tries to say that it is not the coordination numbers that cause people to have double identities and can cheat on subsidies, because a coordination number is not enough to get subsidies. No, the Minister of Finance, everyone knows that! However, if you do not have a coordination number, you cannot get double contributions, and that is precisely the point. If we were to overcome these up to 400 000 coordination numbers where we cannot prove our identity, we would not have problems with a lot of people who illegally accumulate vehicles on the same coordination number, which states the same address even though they are convicted criminals, who operate illegally in Sweden and who in different ways facilitate the lives of criminals. Many of these problems would disappear, but the Finance Minister does not want to do anything about them. She just wants to hide the problems, and that is a disgrace to Sweden.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-370	Madam President, I would like Yes, what if the world was as simple as it is in Fredrik Schultes's brain? Then we could solve robberies, assaults, cheating with grants and problems with criminals who are in Sweden by abolishing or completely deleting the register for coordination numbers. If that were the case, I would do it tomorrow, but unfortunately that is not the case. It is a major problem that there are people who have multiple identities and thus receive double contributions. Most of the grants we have are residence-based and require that you are registered and thus have a social security number in Sweden, and those contributions do not go to persons with coordination numbers. There is an investigation that has established that this is the case. To do as Fredrik Schulte wishes, i.e. focus on the coordination numbers to combat grant crimes, would not lead to progress. Quite different measures are needed. Fredrik Schulte is missing the target. I am the first to think that we should keep our registers in order, and that is why I have proposed a restart of the coordination numbers. I am the first to think that it is quite wrong that so many cars can be written on one and the same person, and there is an investigation looking at that problem in particular. To believe, however, that by means of the coordination number we are dealing with the serious crime we have in Sweden is to completely miss the target. Fredrik Schultes's policy would be very dangerous for Sweden and also make it difficult for the police to keep track of their registers.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-373	Madam President, I would like I just had an insult thrown at me by Fredrik Schulte when we took care of the interpellation debate. I'm gonna get myself together. Madam President, I would like Hampus Hagman has asked me how the government wants to facilitate the re-use of electronics products and whether the government is prepared to act to really exempt them from the chemical tax and thereby achieve environmental benefits. On the question, Hampus Hagman has stated that the tax affects electronic goods that are being renovated and sold again because, according to him, it is impossible to prove that tax has been paid for a particular product and, furthermore, it would mean very large administration. As with other excise duties, there are different types of taxable persons for the chemical tax. If the person renovating and selling second-hand electronics is not a so-called authorised warehousekeeper, no liability arises for the latter at the time of the sale. The tax obligation then arises when the goods are manufactured or imported, which for second-hand goods has already taken place much earlier. A seller who chooses not to apply for authorisation as a storekeeper can thus renovate and sell second-hand electronics without taxing it. For a seller who has been approved by the Swedish Tax Agency as a storekeeper, sales are generally subject to tax. However, there is an exception for goods for which tax liability has previously taken place. The seller does not have to prove that the tax has actually been paid, as Hampus Hagman states, but only that the tax liability has taken effect. If the electronic goods have been purchased from a company, which is the most common, this can normally be shown by copies of such receipts or invoices that the company is obliged to keep in its books. There are therefore already several ways for companies to ensure that second-hand electronics are not taxed.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-379	Madam President, I would like With me I have two debate articles, both of which deal with the fact that the chemical tax discourages the re-use of electronics and strikes an industry that is working to extend the life of these products. As a result, the chemical tax also hits the environment. The articles are signed by professors at Lund University, companies in the industry and industry organisations. It can be said that the picture given in these debate papers is very different from that given by the Minister for Finance in his reply to my interpellation. I read aloud from one of the articles: But in practice it does not work that way. Innergo, which in 2018 was able to pass on over 300 000 second-hand IT products to new owners, paid the same year almost as much in chemical tax as in corporate tax. ..................................................... The message in the articles is clear: there is a need for an exception for second-hand products. The Swedish company Innergo, mentioned in the article I read from, sells used electronics products and may probably be considered the market leader. They supply more than 80 countries and employ more than 150 people. They are a good example of the fact that the circular economy is not only good for the environment but also economically viable and creates jobs. However, the chemical tax creates problems for them, because it makes it less attractive to buy a recycled product. We can take a screen to a computer as an example. It is a relatively heavy product, so it gets the maximum chemical tax – now 448 SEK. A used screen itself is worth about SEK 500, so the cost is 500+ 448. Added to this is VAT, and together it means that taxes on the product are higher than the value of the product. If the screen is worth SEK 500, the price will be SEK 1 185 when all taxes have been put on. A newly produced screen cost now in the morning from SEK 1,090 on netonnet.se. This means that the attractiveness of re-use is small in relation to newly produced goods. In practice, the chemical tax thus steers away from the more sustainable choice, in favour of a less sustainable choice. On paper it should not be like this, as Magdalena Andersson also points out in her answer. According to the Minister for Finance, there are several ways for companies to ensure that second-hand electronics are not taxed, but, as the criticism put forward shows, at least these are not good enough. On paper, there's no problem, but there's one out there in the real world. Therefore, the supplementary questions to Magdalena Andersson : Is it not a problem that those affected have a completely different view from the government on how this works? Is it not a problem that academia and industry organisations have a different view than the government? And should Sweden, which should be a pioneer country for sustainability, not make it as easy as possible to contribute to more sustainable consumption?
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-385	Madam President, I would like Almost three years ago, the chemical tax, a weight-based excise duty on electronic goods, was introduced. The aim of the tax is to reduce the consumption of electronic goods containing harmful flame retardants while the state expects increased tax revenues. Evaluations have been carried out by the Swedish Commerce Federation, which shows that revenues are significantly lower than expected, while the number of jobs has decreased by approximately 1,000 posts. They also show that private imports are increasing at about the same rate as job losses. Also add the administrative costs, which have increased by about SEK 300 million. At the same time, the electronics industry says the following: The chemical tax provides a very limited environmental benefit and has already contributed to job losses and a sales rate of approximately SEK 6 billion for Swedish trade. Since the reality now looks like it does – Sweden is losing jobs, and the environmental benefits and tax revenues are missing – my question is whether Magdalena Andersson can imagine evaluating the effects of the chemical tax from a holistic perspective. In addition to the environmental aspects, I am thinking of the economic and labour market aspects and, not least, from a circular perspective.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-389	Madam President, I would like Companies that renovate and sell second-hand electronics products are important companies that do important work for Sweden. As Hampus Hagman says, it is important for the circular economy that we can reuse our electronic products. There is a huge waste which is bad for the environment if you have too fast a turnover time on electronic products. I fully share that view. There are two possibilities of not having to pay chemical tax on reused products. One is that you do not apply to be an approved warehouse keeper. Then you don't have to pay the taxes. The second is that you have an exception. It is an exception which applies generally where tax liability has already taken place. Then you do not need to know that the tax has already been paid, but it is enough for the tax liability to have taken effect. A receipt from when the goods were sold for the first time should be sufficient for the tax liability to take effect. I do not deal with this type of business, but I would think that you still want a receipt when you buy used goods to ensure that it is not stolen goods you buy. You don't want to risk having a fence. I would guess that companies still want receipts to ensure that they do not engage in illegal activities. At least I imagine that would be the case if I were to engage in this activity. These are serious companies, so I'd think they'd like to have it that way too. I'll say something briefly about the Trade Investigation Institute's so-called evaluation. In practice, it is not an evaluation; it is more a development of the criticism that the Institute had of the tax even when it was introduced. Then they have theoretical models for how they think the tax will affect. Therefore, it is important to say that the Trade Investigation Institute itself has great financial interests in this. I think you should have that with you when you read their reports. However, it is of course important that we always evaluate the new measures taken by the government. Of course, when the chemical tax has been in operation for a few years, it is also appropriate to carry out an evaluation of it. I can also tell you that the government has implemented an improvement in the chemical tax through a decision this week that the tax will also cover individuals buying goods abroad.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-396	Madam President, I would like Companies, industry organisations and not least academia say that there is a problem. Used goods are taxed in a way that was not supposed to be taxed because it is difficult to show that tax liability has already taken place. It makes it difficult to sell used computers and phones. The Minister of Finance says that there is no problem at all because there are exemptions for goods for which tax liability has already taken place. So we can see that reality and map do not match and that the message of the Minister for Finance is that the government is following the map. Reality has to adapt. The fact that business, jobs and the environment are involved seems to be less important. I regret to say, Madam President, that this reflects the general attitude of the government and the social democracy towards society, but perhaps particularly towards companies. I have a completely different attitude. I think that the public, state, municipalities, authorities etc. should basically see themselves as service organisations. We are not for our own sake; we are for others. We are for the people, for companies and for civil society. And when they point out and show that there is a problem with the rules that the state has introduced, we must take it on board and adapt the rules. We need to reduce the hassle and make everyday life easier. This applies, of course, to all companies, because all companies are important. But it must be especially important now, when it comes to companies that really contribute to making Sweden and the world more sustainable. It is companies that show that it is possible to make money and create jobs by providing a more sustainable solution to a problem. It is companies that make Sweden a leading country in this area. It must be especially urgent to listen and simplify when they say that there is a problem. The fact that companies already need to keep their receipts for long periods of time is absolutely true. But the point is that the additional work that it entails for the companies involved is holding back sustainable development. Moreover, this requirement does not apply to private individuals, and it makes it difficult for individuals to sell electronics to a company which then sells it to someone else. In short, Madam President, complicated rules are holding back positive developments. In fact, I am very surprised that the government is not taking this on board. Why is the government clinging to a technical structure for exceptions that are condemned not only by those affected but also by the professional organisations and academia?
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-403	Madam President, I would like I have noted that the government has launched an investigation into – and now apparently also decided to try this – similar rules also for those who sell to Swedish consumers. That is a good thing, but I repeat that it should have been preceded by an evaluation of the whole in terms of both the environmental, economic and labour market aspects and not least from a circular perspective. This is particularly true in the situation where it can be expected that this tax will also include additional industries, such as textiles and footwear. My question is: Can the Minister state how it will be possible to ensure that secondhand shops, such as Erikshjälpen, the Red Cross and the Swedish Church's various shops, which sell second hand stores, will be able to continue to do so without being extra taxed and thus risk having to close down their business?
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-406	Madam President, I would like Camilla Brodin raises the question of what it will be like for secondhand sales when it comes to clothing and shoes. It is easier for me to understand that it is a problem to ensure that taxation has taken place in the past. That's something the investigation's looking at. It is less common to keep receipts when it comes to clothes and shoes than when it comes to a little more expensive electronic goods. An investigation is now working on this, and I am of course very interested in what proposals it makes on this particular issue. The same is true of Hampus Hagman's question about the electronics industry. I'm not married to one solution or the other. Very often when we come up with individual tax proposals from the Ministry of Finance, there are comments from the business community about exactly how the tax is designed and that the procedures surrounding tax collection should not be too complicated. We at the Ministry of Finance naturally have a continuous dialogue with the business community about this and listen to them. On this issue, it has not been quite clear to us at the Ministry of Finance that this is indeed a problem in the way Hampus Hagman points out. We are, of course, prepared to listen if we can show that this is indeed such a problem. Of the contacts that so far have pre-evarit and what we have heard so far, it is a little difficult to understand that this would be such a big problem, given that it is often about quite expensive goods that you bought. Then it is common that you also have the receipt. I can also imagine that for those who are renovating it is important to know that the goods they buy have been bought in a legal way.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-409	Madam President, I would like Now it actually sounded like a rather positive message from Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. She's not married to one solution or the other. That's very good. Then I have two debates that I can directly recommend. Meet the professors at Lund University! Meet Innergo! There is also a master's thesis written last year by a student in environmental science, also at Lund University, about just the problems I raise. So there are solutions to this, and it is very positive if the Minister for Finance can take them on board. I did not think that was reflected in the interpellation response that the Minister of Finance read out here earlier. It is a problem that companies are forced to spend their time, energy and energy on learning regulations and on administration. It is also a problem if it does not concern the government. It is very positive if the government accepts that this is a problem. Sweden should be a pioneer for sustainability. I think that entrepreneurs should put the time, the power and the energy to develop their idea, to create new jobs and to contribute to a better world. A clear exemption from the chemical tax for second-hand electronics is needed.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-413	Madam President, I would like Yes, and then it is a good thing that there is also an exception for used electronics. There are two possibilities, as I pointed out in my interpellation response. The Ministry of Finance's contacts have so far not shown that a change is necessary, but if the new facts and new arguments come, we are, of course, prepared to listen. We also have an ongoing dialogue with the business community, where there is a common interest, for which there is also a great deal of support in this House, that we should have as simple administrative rules as possible for Swedish companies. Most entrepreneurs become entrepreneurs because they have a smart idea, and that is what they want to do. If you are interested in administration, you might become an official at the Tax Agency instead. With all due respect, it is not always the tax procedure rules that you have the most knowledge of when you are a professor of business administration. There may be rules on the tax procedure that you do not know in detail, although of course you have a lot of other things in mind. Thanks for the interpellation and nice weekend!
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-416	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that companies throughout the country have access to transport at competitive prices and whether I intend to initiate a reduction in petrol and diesel taxes. Boriana Åberg has also asked me whether I intend to proceed with the proposal for a new travel allowance. In order for the whole of Sweden to live and develop, our transport needs to be both efficient and climate-smart. Greenhouse gas emissions from transport account for one third of Sweden's emissions. The Government considers that there are good conditions to reduce emissions from transport in line with the Parliament's objectives. These are measures that steer towards fossil-free fuels, efficient vehicles and a transport-efficient society. That is how we get rid of fossil dependence while ensuring the competitiveness of the countryside. In order to promote viable rural areas, the Government submitted the 2018 bill A coherent policy for Sweden's rural areas – for a Sweden that holds together to Parliament. In the bill, the government is clear that the transport system will contribute to providing everyone, including rural areas, with basic accessibility with good quality and usability and contribute to development power throughout the country. During the last term of office, the Government has decided on a national transport infrastructure plan for the years 2018 – 2029. The plan comprises a total of SEK 700 billion. In order to compensate companies with long transport distances in Västernorrland, Jämtland, Västerbotten and Norrbotten County, the Government annually allocates funds to regional transport grants. Measures that are particularly important in Sweden's rural areas are support for fuel filling stations for fossil-free fuels, support for charging infrastructure throughout the country and investment in improved rail transport. I believe that incentives and economic instruments should continue to be used to help achieve climate objectives and to increase the share of environmental taxes in tax revenues. However, the role of fuel taxation in this transition should be assessed in a broader context. Many people in Sweden depend on the car. That is also why I so often talk about our dependence on oil being neither economic nor climate sustainable. The sharp fluctuations in fuel prices illustrate the problem of sitting on the knees of oil - producing countries in the world. In connection with the escalation of the US-Iran conflict in 2019, we saw a sharp increase in oil prices, resulting in higher fuel prices. Since then, the price has fallen back, recently affected by reduced demand due to the Corona virus. The oil price is now down to the lowest levels in over a year. As we phase out fossil fuels in favour of electricity and biofuels, which are often produced locally, dependence on these kinds of external factors is reduced. With regard to travel allowances, the preparation of the proposals presented by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which have been consulted, is continuing. The government has received many valuable comments from the consultation bodies and recently carried out a Traffic Analysis mission to conduct an in-depth analysis of the impact of the Committee's proposals on those living or working in sparsely populated areas. The aim is to get a better basis for the continued work. The assignment shall be presented by 22 May 2020. The Government will then take a position on whether and in what way it will proceed with the proposal.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-423	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I shall begin where the Minister's speech ended, namely with the proposal for a new system for the deduction of travel expenses. I would have liked the Minister to have been straighter and clearer in his reply, rather than cryptically replying that the government will take a position on, and how it will proceed with, the proposal. If I could dream freely, the Minister would say that the proposal has been dropped in the document recorder at the Ministry of Finance and is instead working on a new proposal to increase the travel allowance to cover the actual costs of getting to work. But we are not here to dream, but to talk about politics. I'll stick to it. The proposal is rarely bad and harmful to Sweden's development. It is misthinking from the start and hitting hard on the work commuting, on which our companies are so dependent. Labour labour is also important for the individual, in order for him to be able to make a living. It is particularly important for people living in rural areas. According to experts, 200 000 people who today can make deductions for work commuting will lose that opportunity. For them remains to move. This is not always possible because other family members remain in their homes or other commitments or circumstances that need to be taken into account. The second option is to stop working because you can't afford the trips to and from work. Far from everyone has access to public transport. Similarly, people living in cities cannot always use public transport. It is about those who work night shifts, such as police officers, medical personnel and so on. Should women who work night shifts not be able to take the car to work and instead expose themselves to the risk of being attacked and raped? Only the feeling of being afraid is harmful to a person. The climate in society has become much rougher during the government's time. It is strange and sad that the feminist government does not directly reject a proposal for a travel allowance that strikes hard at women working in uncomfortable times. It is claimed that the new deduction will have a major environmental impact. But that's not true. It is true that CO2 emissions would be reduced, but to a very limited extent, in fact only by 1% of total road traffic emissions, and at a cost of SEK 1 billion for taxpayers. There are other ways of reducing CO2 emissions and at a significantly lower cost. The government must end symbolism and do things just to show that you are doing something. It is better to do the right things, for example bury the proposal for the new travel allowance and lay down the bonus – the malus system. The cost to households is high, the benefits to the environment are non-existent and the money disappears abroad.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-431	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg argues against the investigation proposal submitted by the Travel Deduction Committee to the Government. I would like to emphasise that the Government has not yet taken a position on the proposal. It's been out for a referral. We are now looking at the very valuable points we have received. Since we are concerned about the consequences for those living or working in sparsely populated areas, we have given Trafikanalys the task of carrying out an in-depth analysis of this particular issue. For the government, it is extremely important that there should be good opportunities to both live and work throughout the country.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-433	Madam President, I would like I would like to express my hope that the proposal will never become a reality. Now I will devote myself to the rest of the minister's answer. I am a little surprised that the Minister chooses to talk about the Corona virus and the world market price of oil. Isn't it better to stick to what the government can influence? One example is the tax on fuel, which my interpellation is at least partly about. In the 2014 election campaign, the Minister promised that she would not increase fuel taxes. But it's happened. Overindexation has also been introduced. It hits hard on people who live in rural areas where there are great distances to the pharmacy, the health centre, the job, the children's training and everything else. It also hits companies hard. The competitiveness of Swedish companies is undermined when the prices for both driving and owning a car are very high. I am thinking of all small businesses and craftsmen who pay dearly to own their cars and have high operating costs. Moreover, many of them cannot even deduct VAT because some light trucks, where the body has a special design, are regarded as passenger cars and are taxed as such. It is a major error that needs to be addressed urgently if the government wants to facilitate entrepreneurship and especially for small businesses. Although the Government did not give a straight answer to my question whether she intends to initiate a reduction in petrol and diesel taxes, I can almost read the opposite from the answer; we can expect further increases. The Government also says that the share of environmental taxes in tax revenues will increase. To believe that this would be done by lowering other taxes is, in the light of the government's policy to date, rather naive. Instead of penalising people and companies that depend on the car and referring to environmental and climate work, we should focus on the real environmental villains: coal power stations in Europe and the rest of the world. You talk a lot about electrification of cars. But there are some obstacles. Above all, we do not have enough electricity, at least not in Skåne where I live. If each and every other person had the opportunity to buy one of the expensive electric cars, the system would still not be able to meet the demand. In fact, there are already huge problems with transmission capacity. Companies cannot even establish themselves because electricity companies cannot provide any guarantee.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-440	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg is deeply and passionate about Sweden's continued dependence on oil, petrol and diesel to drive our vehicles. I don't think that's the future. The reason I am talking about both the Corona virus and Iran – the US conflict is the problems people who depend on petrol and diesel cars are facing because of world events that are far beyond their control. What has happened to the oil price in recent times is well excellent proof that, in addition to climate reasons, there are other good reasons for converting the fleet of vehicles to power other than petrol and diesel. Unlike Boriana Åberg, I see a future in which we can drive our cars on not only electricity but also biofuels. It should preferably be biofuels that are produced here at home in Sweden. I do not share Boriana Åberg's passion for having oil in our thoughts. However, I think we are both passionate about the car and how important the car is for you to be able to get to work and work all over Sweden. In addition, the car gives an incredible freedom to transport in leisure time as well. So I'm passionate about the car, but I don't share Boriana Åberg's passion for it to be fossil driven.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-444	Madam President, I would like I do not advocate fossil fuel, but for reason and sense of responsibility. I am advocating that the government's decisions should be made with regard to the people involved. Of course, we are moderates in favour of protecting the environment and moving to fossil-free cars, but this must be done with regard to the people who own these cars and who currently cannot afford to replace them. This is particularly true in view of the cost of these cars. I'm not the only one who thinks this. I wonder if the Minister has missed the fact that there is a whole peoples' movement with more than 600 000 members, the petrol uprising 2.0, which is really fighting for everyone's right to choose where to live and what job they should be able to take without having to move anywhere where there is public transport. I am pleased that the Minister is, after all, expressing a passion for cars and for the sense of freedom that the car gives. I very much hope that the desire of the Minister of Finance for freedom will also pass on to her decision, because reduced taxes will give freedom. Lower taxes on petrol and diesel, which we Moderates want to implement, give the freedom to settle where you want and take the job you want.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-448	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by recalling that the Moderates raised the tax on petrol in every budget they submitted during the alliance years, as well as in the budget they pushed through a year ago in Parliament. It may be important to remind you of this when listening to Boriana Åberg. One could get the impression that the Moderates have run a different policy in the past. Yes, I'm a passionate driver, and the car is one of my dearest possessions. It's an incredible freedom. But precisely because I want people to be able to feel the freedom that it means not only having a car but also being able to drive it in the future, I think it is absolutely necessary to change the fleet of vehicles. Gas prices not only vary, but in the future oil will become more expensive and expensive. The possibility that people with normal incomes will also have in the future to be able to transport by car is based on the fact that we have rebuilt the vehicle fleet so that cars can be driven on domestically produced biofuels or electric cars. This is the future. What Boriana Åberg is promoting will reduce the opportunities for ordinary people to drive in the future.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-451	Madam President, I would like Ulla Andersson has asked me whether I consider the RUT deduction to be an effective labour market measure, and on what grounds I justify that the deduction should remain. Ulla Andersson has also asked me how I justify extending the RUT deduction and raising the ceiling when the government estimates that economic inequality may increase further. Tony Haddou has asked me whether it is my intention to extend the RUT deduction and raise the ceiling instead of spending the corresponding tax resources on welfare, and how, if so, I justify the measures. Part of the government's policy is based on the January agreement, which is a substantive political agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party. Ulla Andersson's question is in the light of the part of the January agreement which states that the RUT deduction will be extended by more services and the ceiling increased. On 31 January, the investigation submitted an interim report in which the investigation proposes that the RUT deduction be extended to include laundry, furnishings, transport and security services. The investigation also proposes an increased ceiling to SEK 75 000. The report has been sent out for consultation. The proposals of the investigation and the responses of the consultation bodies will then be prepared within the Government Office. I welcome any in-depth analysis of the various reforms and their effects. In the further preparation, I will therefore closely monitor the impact of the extension of the RUT deduction on employment and economic equality.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-455	Madam President, I would like The government has argued that the tax reduction for domestic services, RUT, creates employment and that people with short education enter the labour market. However, according to a study from Growth Analysis, the RUT deduction is partly a very expensive labour market measure and partly misses the intended target group. The Swedish National Audit Office has also come to similar conclusions as the Swedish Association of Students' Associations for Enterprise and Society. A large proportion of the individuals employed by subsidised enterprises were employed in another employment year prior to employment. The State has thus subsidised employment for people who would still have found employment. It must nevertheless be said to be inefficient and costly. In addition, it appears that more than 75 per cent of those working in RUT companies have upper secondary or tertiary education. So they're pretty well educated. The Swedish Tax Agency's own statistics clearly show that the high-income group is over-represented among those who have so far used RUT subsidies, while the lowest-income part is barely found in the statistics. The Swedish National Audit Office also shows the same thing. In particular, high-income earners – the fifth of the population with the highest income – use more than half of the deduction amount. It is people who are healthy enough to clean themselves who get a tax subsidy from the state because they do not have the energy or will. These are tax subsidies that everyone is allowed to pay, i.e. the poor pensioner, the single mother and everyone else who has a low income in different ways. The tax subsidy is clearly targeted at the well-off target group, which is pressing for more RUT services. It increases inequality, as the government itself states. Moreover, this is a waste of taxpayers' money, not least in view of the welfare situation where it is reduced to cleaning in schools, hospitals and health centres. Home help is also withdrawn and even cut back on food in preschools. The government has said it wants to see an extension of the system, even though it itself says that inequality is estimated to increase and that the employment impact of the reform has been very limited. I have therefore asked the Minister for Finance whether she believes that RUT is an effective labour market measure and on what other grounds she would otherwise justify extending the deduction or that it should remain. I have also asked whether she believes that the extension of the RUT deduction affects inequality. If it does so in a negative direction, I wonder why it should be further extended. In reply from the Minister for Finance, I have received the following: Otherwise, I will continue to follow the question. ..................................................... All the reports that have come show exactly the same thing. The ambitions of RUT were that it would reduce undeclared work, but they are still there. It would also be a way for people who found it difficult to get into the labour market to get a job. This argument has also fallen. Another reason was that people who do not want to clean themselves would use their time to work their wages. This, too, does not hold. All arguments for the RUT reform have therefore fallen. There was the argument that people with foreign background would come to work. But the non-tax-subsidised industries, such as hospital cleaning, schools and health centres, have been better able. That also applies to home care. All arguments for the RUT reform have fallen. There's a crisis in welfare. Yet we shall continue to follow the matter. Why?
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-465	Madam President, I would like As Ulla Andersson concluded by saying, there is a crisis in Swedish welfare. Around the country there are cuts going on. We have been able to take part of this for a long time, most recently yesterday in Varberg Municipality. When the municipality is saving money, children on fritis can eat a maximum of one soft sandwich per meal. That is what the new directive says. An hour away, in my own municipality of Gothenburg, there are cuts in school that lead to even larger school classes, and it is the teachers who have to take the consequences. In the same region, it is planned to reduce the number of hospital staff, despite the fact that the care queues are already long and the staff are running and do not have time to recover. Some municipalities move from hot food to chilled food boxes in the home service. This is what it looks like around the municipalities in Sweden. At this point, the government chooses to say it wants to increase the RUT grant. In this situation, the government selects several additional contributions to the middle and upper classes. All statistics clearly show that the group of high income earners is over-represented among those who have used the RUT deduction so far, while the proportion of the population with the lowest income is barely included in the statistics. Recently, an interim report was also presented by the RUT study, which, in addition to raising the ceiling, wants to extend the services to include the transport of laundry, the assembly of new furniture, the driving of stuff to flea market, the refurbishment and watering of well-ordered flowers while on holiday. You wonder if it's something the rich can do without getting a grant for it. So should we take joint responsibility for the well-off to have someone at home to water the flowers? But no matter how the Minister of Finance chooses to expand the services and proceed with this investigation, the money comes from the same pot, namely our common taxes. What is essential, however, is the skewed profile distribution and the target group to which the money goes. They simply go to the richest, especially in the rich areas around Stockholm and the other rich areas around the country. It's this particular target group that needs the extra gold edge, isn't it? The question then arises: Why is there more emphasis on contributions to the rich than on equality? Why should tax money go to quite remarkable services for the rich rather than going to the country's most vulnerable or for that matter to our common welfare? Why should tax funds be used to subsidise the lifestyle of high-income people rather than even out the social divides? Madam President, I would like Who do we, as a society, want to be for and help – those who lack the most basic and are on the lowest step or the rich homeowner at the top of the stairs who want to redecorate at home? The answer to that question should be self-evident. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case in Sweden of the Social Democrats. In Sweden of the Social Democrats, every low-paid person must obviously give of their tax money, so that the high-paid can pick out high RUT subsidies to get cleaned up at home or get their pools cleaned. It is, of course, not reasonable for us, through our taxes, to favour the high-paid with huge subsidies, while the municipalities find it difficult to meet their commitments in the field of welfare. The sum paid by the state in RUT grants last year was 5.6 billion. It is approaching nearly SEK 6 billion. I think the Minister for Finance should think a little about how much the municipalities received in grants and how much extra funding there was in that effort. There's a lot of skewedness there. It is clear that an increased RUT deduction is part of the big right turn that the government is making in economic policy. We did not really get the answer to why you should have more contributions to the upper class instead of investing in welfare. That's my question.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-473	Madam President, I would like There is, of course, much to consider after the evaluations that have come up on the RUT deduction. There has been quite a strong consensus among the economists in Sweden who analysed the RUT deduction that it was a tax reduction that in practice was self-financing. This analysis has been completely overturned by the reports that have come. I think there's a lot to think about there. Not least, this suggests that the employment estimates that economists make of individual tax changes really need to be taken with a large amount of salt. Clearly, these issues have been far too optimistic and quite misleading. Therefore, I am also very pleased that we, in cooperation with the Left Party, ensured that the employment effects of individual proposals are no longer reflected in the budget proposal. That was something that the Alliance government did. These figures show that it was grossly misleading information that was given to the Riksdag. I think it is very good that we could remove this together. Of course, we must be extremely careful about future employment projections. The investigation into the extension of the RUT deduction has just arrived and is now out for a referral. We will, of course, look at the referrals. Of course, these evaluations will be part of that discussion. At the same time, we have a political agreement. As Ulla Andersson well knows, I am a person who supports the agreements I have made.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-477	Madam President, I would like Yes, it was good that we removed those calculations, because they were totally misleading, which we also actually knew when the bourgeois government introduced the RUT. All the arguments they had have, as I said, fallen. Reality usually catches up. That's what it looks like. Let us look at the reality and the evaluations that have been made! Growth analysis concluded that every RUT job has cost between 1 1⁄2 million and 2.3 million. This corresponds to quite a few jobs in the welfare of nurses, preschool teachers or nurses. Furthermore, it has been noted that 75 per cent have upper secondary or higher education levels. At the same time, there is a shortage of labour in many professions requiring upper secondary education or higher. According to the Swedish National Audit Office's audit, 8 per cent of those who have received a job in the RUT industry have a full-time salary. About half have an annual income that is less than a month's salary for a cleaner. So we use highly educated people's skills for tax-subsidised cleaning in private homes at a very high cost. Reports from Growth Analysis, RUT and SNS clearly show how it looks. Certainly– Almega has a completely different report, but they are also representatives of this tax-doped industry. If we then look at what is happening in Söderköping, we can unfortunately note that there is a problem with the cleaning of old people. They will no longer have their toilet cleaned every week, but only every three weeks. It also draws on the time to be spent on social care. It'll be halved. There should be four hours a month to social gatherings, while we know that loneliness is a great risk to people, especially older people. It involves a risk of mental illness and depression. In addition, the supervision of the elderly should be restricted. You should no longer visit them at home. You should call them. The EUR 5 billion spent on RUT could be used to ensure that the home service received the necessary resources. In this way, the money would be of much greater mutual benefit. If you do not think that the resources are needed in the home care service, you could use them to clean our schools, where children with allergies and asthma are affected by poor cleaning, or our hospitals, where we get infections and health damage as a result of not cleaning them properly. It would be much more effective and provide greater common benefit. While we have RUT which in itself is increasing inequality, as the Minister for Finance has also said, the cuts in welfare are also affecting equality in the wrong direction. Inequality increases because of them, and because of RUT it increases twice. I did not hear a single argument from the Minister of Finance that inequality is not increasing or why RUT should be an effective labour market measure. I appreciate that the Minister of Finance is behind what she is doing and that she is honest. It is precisely because she is honest she cannot have any arguments for why RUT would be an effective labour market measure or that it would not increase inequality. All the arguments have fallen. It's just bourgeois ideology.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-484	Madam President, I would like The question is: Why do you send out the investigation for a referral? Here, in the January gang, you can simply stop. The January agreement is very little about what is good for Sweden. There is no reason whatsoever to increase the RUT ceiling and expand the services to include more. Some services in the proposal are rather parody but at the same time provocative. On the contrary, there are obviously a great many reasons for backing back poor and costly separate solutions. I think that the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the RUT deduction, as Ulla Andersson mentioned, shows the consequences very clearly. The RUT reform is very expensive and ineffective and does not really achieve any kind of purpose or accuracy. It is a very expensive labour market measure and the RUT deduction misses its intended target group. We have heard through the ages the RUT defenders repeat that RUT would be self-financing. It's not. RUT was supposed to strangle the black jobs. It didn't quite do that. RUT would relieve worn-out parents of young children. It doesn't. Sixty-nine per cent of RUT buyers don't even have children at home. The RUT deduction has far too low efficiency and very high costs when it comes to creating jobs. The reform is eating up our common tax money. In that sector, taxpayers have to pay nearly SEK 2 million for each service. That corresponds to three four jobs in welfare. RUT is therefore expensive and ineffective. If you want to create jobs with tax money, there are considerably cheaper and more efficient roads. This can be done, for example, by employing more people in welfare in general or in home care in particular. This provides considerably more jobs and just what is demanded around the country by the municipalities. I think most people prefer to pay taxes for more colleagues in welfare, home care or care, rather than seeing their paid tax money pay for flower watering or pool cleaning in the homes of the wealthy. Instead of allowing Danderyds residents to make tax deductions to water the flowers while on vacation, we could give the country's nurses, teachers and nurses more colleagues. We could strengthen both home and social services in the country's municipalities that need that money much more. It is ultimately a political choice. Should tax revenue through targeted grants go to refurbishment in private homes, or should tax money go to something else, such as hiring more people in welfare? It goes without saying to us in the Left Party. We will fight for equality and fight for more resources for welfare. We will also run counter to the conscious unfair distribution of resources – every crown that is redirected to RUT could have been invested in an entirely different place in the economy. It is ultimately a political choice. As a labour market measure, the Swedish Work Environment Authority has repeatedly warned about the poor working environment in the RUT industries. Of the more than 500 cleaning companies audited, 4 out of 5, for example, have major shortcomings in the working environment. These are jobs characterised by fragmented working days, either short or part-time in general, stress, precarious employment, unpaid travel time and so on. It is an industry in which employers always prioritise customer needs more than the working environment. A non-existent priority is the degree of union membership or collective agreements in the industry. Not many companies in that industry do.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-492	Madam President, I would like Ulla Andersson asks if it is an effective labour market measure. No, it cannot be argued with the analyses that have come now. It is possibly an effective labour market measure in other European countries because many of those who work here and who have a lower level of education are immigrants from other European countries. Those who were already in Sweden had jobs here before or have such an education that they should be able to have a job. The arguments that have been put forward about the RUT deduction that are still relevant are that it can increase labour supply among those who buy RUT services and also that it can reduce undeclared work. One might have the objection that the tax on RUT services is so reduced that there is hardly any taxation left on them. If we are to reduce undeclared work and tax evasion by removing taxes, we do not have much welfare state left. On the other hand, undeclared work may be uncommon in this type of industry when services are provided between people and it is private individuals who buy. There, undeclared work was unusually common in itself earlier. Tony Haddou claims that the January agreement is not about what is good for Sweden. That is an opinion that I certainly do not share. I don't really think Tony Haddou does either. For example, there is investment aid for rental properties in the January agreement, which I know is very close to the Left Party. There is at least 20 billion to welfare, which, of course, needs to be much more. But it's a lot better than if we had an M-KD-SD government. This is the continued expansion of knowledge transfer so that more people will get to work. I'm sure Tony Haddou thinks that's a good thing. It is very extensive climate investment and a major green tax shift that I am convinced the Left Party is also behind. I can also note that a year ago the Left Party itself came to the conclusion that it felt that this formation of government was better than having Ulf Kristersson as Prime Minister and therefore accepted it.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-498	Madam President, I would like We note that this government has recently reduced taxes on the most wealthy. There are rich men in Danderyd, on Östermalm and so on. M a n removed the defense tax. Thus, the tax was reduced for all who made over $15,000 a month. It cost 6 billion. At the same time, 31⁄2 billion was allocated to welfare. We can also note that about half of the contributions needed to prevent cuts in home care, preschool, fritis, school and health care are being added. Large-scale savings and cuts await us. These are the ones that have already started but are going to get worse. I note that the Minister of Finance is saying that the issue of undeclared work may not be such a good argument. We also know that the bourgeois government exaggerated the problem several times when it introduced the RUT. As the Minister for Finance also says, it is not possible to subsidise all sectors where there is undeclared work. This would be a completely ineffective and very bad measure, not least from the perspective of the welfare state. The Minister for Finance also points out that some people may start working a little more if they get help with cleaning at home. The RUT report shows that this may not be correct either. The question is: Is it what the state should do, to subsidise healthy, prosperous people's private cleaning at home? I can't think so. This applies least when we see what it looks like in Söderköping with the savings in home care, in Lund or in Nordmaling. It's extensive. It just rolls, rolls and rolls. I note that the government chooses to reduce taxes for the wealthy and chooses to extend the RUT deduction for the same target group. The political priority is the well-being of well-off people. You leave old and pre-school children behind.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-503	Madam President, I would like The January agreement is part of the big right turn that the government does by, among other things, lowering the tax for the very richest in Sweden. The Minister of Finance and the Social Democrats have wanted to go that way for almost a decade. So it is nothing new that the Social Democrats are making a major right-wing move in politics. But RUT may still deliver the intended effect, namely to move large sums of money from the state to the country's high-income recipients. It is a redistribution to the rich households at the expense of the rest of Sweden. They were not satisfied with abolished property tax, abolished inheritance and gift tax and large dividends with lower tax rates – the rich always want a little more. They're supposed to have the extra gold edge in their lives. The bourgeois government managed to do that, and unfortunately it also manages a Social Democratic Minister of Finance to change up here. However, I realise that the Minister for Finance also wants to justify his political choices to her constituents, so she raises a number of proposals that the Left Party likes or has been involved in negotiating. This is certainly a conscious political choice which we believe should be reconsidered urgently. I don't think the investigation even has to go for a referral. This is where the January gang needs to stop. Why should we pay even more to keep the richest 10% clean at home? It is not difficult to say that welfare is on our knees and that we have people in Sweden who live on the margins. In fact, I think that the Minister of Finance should visit fritis in the municipality I mentioned and explain to the children why they get a maximum of one soft sandwich per meal. She can also visit the municipalities that move from hot food in the home service to chilled lunch boxes or explain to the health workers why they should run an extra round and never recover. She needs to explain to them how she prioritises. It is absolutely a political choice that the Minister for Finance makes, and it is nothing new, but it has been going on for a decade. It is the right-wing movement that the Social Democrats have wanted to do.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-509	Madam President, I would like When you look at the distribution profile of the budgets that I put on Parliament's table during the last parliamentary term, you can see that it is a very clear distribution policy and a very clear social democratic profile in them. It is the most financial resources for those with the smallest margins, while those with the highest incomes are allowed to contribute a little more. It's classic Social Democratic politics. Both Tony Haddou and Ulla Andersson take up the estate tax. It is quite correct that we went forward with a budget with a proposal for the abolition of defence taxes. Nor is it a secret that this really is not a proposal that we Social Democrats had come up with on their own. A year ago, however, we were faced with a choice. Either the military tax had been abolished with Ulf Kristersson as Prime Minister in a historically weak and historically right-wing government that in every decision needed the active support of the Swedish democrats, or Stefan Löfven would have been the Prime Minister in collaboration with three other parties. It is a government that has abolished the military tax but has also achieved a long series of left-wing and social-democratic reforms: money for welfare, more education, green conversion, investment aid for rental housing and increased pensions for all pensioners who have really low pensions. Our assessment a year ago was that this was a better choice, and you know what: It was the decision that the Left Party also made in its parliamentary group. It doesn't really sound like that now, though.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-513	Madam President, I would like Kjell Jansson has asked me if I plan to increase fuel taxes during my term of office and whether I intend to change the bonus – the Malus system. I would like to start by saying that there are many people in Sweden who depend on the car. That is also why I so often talk about the fact that our dependence on oil, which causes the sharp fluctuations in fuel prices, is not sustainable, either economically or for the climate. In connection with the escalation of the US-Iran conflict in 2019, we saw a sharp increase in oil prices, resulting in higher fuel prices. Since then, the price has fallen back, recently affected by reduced demand due to the Corona virus. The oil price is now down to the lowest levels in over a year. Economic instruments are at the heart of an effective environmental policy, but to achieve the climate objectives only by means of substantially increased fuel taxes, as some assessors have suggested, would have major consequences, not least for people in sparsely populated areas where car dependence is high. Such a policy is not relevant to this government. Taxes are also not the only means of achieving a change. When Sweden carried out a shift from oil-based individual heating of our houses to using district heating, heat pumps and biofuels, both the carbon tax and the contribution to the conversion of heating systems were used. The Government believes that incentives and economic instruments should also continue to be used to achieve climate targets and that the share of environmental taxes in tax revenues should increase. However, the role of fuel taxation in conversion may be assessed in a wider context.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-516	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, for your answer! However, the answer does not match what the Minister for the Environment usually answers in the speaker's chair. There's a clear difference there. Is it the attitude of the government that is reflected in the answer from the Minister for Finance, or is it Magdalena Andersson's own opinion? The Government responds that the price of oil has great fluctuations. It has been since the 1970s. It's been 50 years, so it's nothing new. It's old cabinet food. Everyone knows that. That is quite correct, and that is how it is historically. The taxation of the fleet of vehicles has completely derailed. There has been some sort of extreme policy of this and a car hatred that is far above the usual government level. It would be reasonable to pay taxes according to the kerb weight, mileage and road wear of the vehicle. Historically, this has always been the case. Now other parameters have been devised to punish motorism. I feel that the car has become a cash cow for the government. You don't understand the importance of having a car in an elongated country like Sweden. Not least when it's winter we see this: You have record amounts of snow in Kiruna – the worst you've had in 30 years – and down here we have no snow at all. This shows how big the country is. We have circulation taxes, vehicle taxes, fuel taxes, taxes on taxes and VAT on taxes. How much does the Minister of Finance think it is reasonable to pay in tax for a car? Will the government further increase fuel taxes during its term of office? That answer is still obscure. Bonus – the Malus tax has driven in total in the ditch. The Swedish National Audit Office has strongly criticised the system and considers it costly and ineffective. It has become expensive to buy transport cars and smaller trucks, so many companies today choose to drive their old cars. It will have exactly the opposite effect if you are looking to reduce fossil fuels. In addition, people living outside the big cities are punished. In fact, two thirds of the country's inhabitants do. They live outside the big cities. And this also affects Stockholm County hard, I can say. The subway starts in Mörby and goes to Norsborg, but it doesn't go any further than that. Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance says in his reply that it is important to control so that the car fleet emits less. That's what the market is all about! The car manufacturer who does not must not sell any cars. I don't think the government and the parliament need to be poking about that. Bonus – the malus system runs counter to the goal when many choose to drive old cars instead of buying new ones. Oil is not the big problem, Minister of Finance. The big problem is coal power. The government should put all its energy, especially within the EU, into influencing to stop the expansion of coal power, to phase out existing works and to build nuclear power instead. Currently, 2 500 new coal power plants are being built in the world, most of them in China and India. The government sifts mosquitoes and swallows camels! The car is a big symbol of freedom and an extremely important component of a market economy and an export country such as Sweden, which depends on having mobility and being able to get to and from work.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-531	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking Kjell Jansson for the initial geography lesson. Yes, Sweden is a large country. I think that is also important to point out. In the EU context, Sweden is said to be a small country. Actually, it's not. I usually say it's a medium-sized country. Kjell Jansson seems to think that Sweden should do nothing when it comes to environmental and climate change, because other countries are building coal power plants. That is how I interpret his speech. I do not share that view. Sweden is pushing hard internationally to prevent new coal power plants from being built. Among other things, we have pursued this in the assemblies where we have influence, such as the World Bank and other international banks. It is precisely about not investing in new fossil installations, including coal power plants. However, Sweden does not decide what happens in other countries. We use all our influence to drive away from this, but Sweden does not have decision-making rights. However, we decide what we do here in Sweden. Swedish emissions also contribute to climate change. It is therefore important that Sweden does its part in reducing emissions. When Sweden is ahead, it turns out that it provides fantastic export opportunities for Swedish companies. Kjell Jansson refers to the Swedish National Audit Office, which says that car taxation is ineffective. Then I would like to point out to Kjell Jansson that the criticism relates above all to the environmental car bonus introduced by the Alliance Government, which meant that ordinary nurses paid when managers bought an environmental car. We have abolished the very unfair system. When you get an environmental car bonus, it is paid by those who instead buy a car with very large emissions. These are very expensive cars, and it is mainly people with high incomes who have the opportunity to buy those cars. Kjell Jansson says: Parliament should not poke in the market. Let the market handle the transition! Then, of course, the question is: How did the Moderates raise the tax on petrol each year they were in government and also in the budget they pushed through for 2019?
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-536	Madam President, I would like Yes, there is much to discuss – what happened historically and not. The fuel tax has also been increased by the bourgeois governments; I am fully aware of that. It is more a way of financing things that you want to do, reforms and so on. But the fact remains. The less we release into Sweden, the more other EU countries using coal power, such as Poland, can evict on. In fact, there is an EU emission cap – emission allowances – that the Minister of Finance is well aware of. Punishing the car is all wrong. Fuel taxes are now beginning to reach levels that are difficult to manage for those living in rural areas, not least up in Norrland, where you can have 100 km to work and 100 km home. This is also true in Stockholm County. It's 100 miles to Parliament from where I live. If I'm going back and forth, it's 200 miles a day. It'll be extremely expensive if you take it out in a year. Most of the price of petrol is tax, like two thirds. The price of oil goes up and down, but it is marginal compared to the taxes involved. Of course we should take care of the environment – absolutely. But what the cars emit is negligible compared to how it was before. In 1980 when I started working in Stockholm, the cars released quite a lot, and there were almost twice as many cars in Stockholm. Today, cars emit 10% of what they did in 1980. Instead, one should focus on getting rid of the carbon power – it is actually the big culprit. You should do that if you really care about the environment. Sometimes I feel that the government and, above all, many environmentalists want to punish the car and blame the environment. They basically hate the car. They want the cars out of here, and they're imagining that everyone's gonna ride trains and subways. Unfortunately, trains do not go everywhere in Sweden. There is also no metro everywhere – it is only available in Stockholm. Of course we should be careful about the environment, but there must be rhymes and reason. This is getting out of hand.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-542	Madam President, I would like I really hope that Kjell Jansson does not drive 200 km a day here in the Stockholm area, where there are excellent opportunities to travel collectively, if not all the way so at least large parts of the road to the Riksdag. This is the case regardless of where in the Stockholm area you live. I would also like to point out that emissions allowances only concern the trading sector, and very large parts of the Swedish economy and what we do as individuals are not covered by the trading sector. At Kjell Jansson it sounds like there is a contradiction between working towards coal power plants and Sweden's carrying out a climate shift. It's ridiculous. It's an argument that's hard to take seriously. Of course, the government will work hard to prevent new coal power plants from opening up in the world. So do we. We use all the influence we have in international organisations to push this issue. Of course, we do so in direct talks with those countries. But that does not prevent us from making a transition here in Sweden. There seems to be a gas love at Kjell Jansson. This is not the future. If ordinary people are to be able to drive in the future, when oil has most likely become very expensive, there must be cars that can be powered by electricity and biofuels. That is what is the future for ordinary employees to have the opportunity to drive. That's the future.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-546	Madam President, I would like Yes, it seems to be possible to travel by bus to Stockholm from where I live. It'll take three hours, one-way. With the car, it'll take an hour and a half. Which one do you think you'll choose? You talk about electric cars. That and electrification should be the future. But where's the power coming from? We do not want to expand nuclear power. Today, hydropower supplies Sweden with about 50 per cent of the electricity. Is it the wind turbines you should trust, which stand still when it's really cold? They only work when the wind blows. Otherwise, they'll give zero electricity. Wind power is the most inefficient source of electricity you can have. Build nuclear power! Unfortunately, we lost the vote in this House with one vote, to retain and develop Ringhals. I want an answer from the Minister for Finance: how to supply Sweden with electricity, if all cars are going to go on electricity, when you don't even have power to an Ica store in Arninge that is planned. You have to postpone the construction for three years because Vattenfall cannot guarantee that there is electricity. How, then, can it be said that all cars produced should be powered by electricity? It feels naive. We will not agree on this, but I would nevertheless argue that the government sifts mosquitoes and swallows camels. The cars release some of them in Sweden, but it's not dangerous at all. The forest absorbs most of the carbon dioxide, and it grows as never before. The forest is growing twice as fast now as 100 years ago.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-551	Madam President, I would like It is very serious when we have Members of Parliament in the Swedish Parliament from the Moderates who stand and deny the facts. The Swedish vehicle fleet accounts for a significant part of the Swedish emissions. It's dangerous to the climate. Those are facts. Kjell Jansson can dream that it will be in some other way, but this is very serious. If we are to make good decisions for our children and grandchildren, we must take on board the facts. How will we manage in the future? Yes, of course we need to expand what is renewable. We need to continue with the solar revolution that we see. We need to expand the wind turbines. Of course, we must also save on the electricity we have. Kjell Jansson says his bus takes three hours. If you travel by bus all the way in Stockholm it often takes a very long time. But there are drive-in parks. In fact, I do not know that in Stockholm it would not be possible to take a car to a commuter train station or to a bus station from where a motorway bus goes into town. I really hope Kjell Jansson has found that opportunity and not always rides. Kjell Jansson does not seem to think that there is any problem with all cars that emit exhaust gases that reduce the climate and that in Stockholm also emit particles that are dangerous to our children. Although Kjell Jansson refuses to take on board the facts on which there is a great deal of agreement, I hope that he sometimes chooses to travel collectively.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-555	Madam President, I would like Gudrun Brunegård has asked me how the government intends to ensure that students are not violated in school for their beliefs and that they should be taken seriously when they report violations. Gudrun Brunegård has also asked how the government can provide training for teachers and other staff on the curriculum, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the European Convention and their consequences for respect for faith and religious expression. It is unacceptable for students to be violated in school. This applies not least if the violation is due to the student's faith or religion. Each student should be free to shape his or her own opinion, and the school should show respect for faith and religious expression. Promoting equal treatment and combating all forms of abusive treatment is an important part of school's work for safety and education. I assume that the school's principals, who are responsible under the School Act, comply with and enforce the provisions of the School Act and other regulations. According to the school law and curricula, education in schools must convey and anchor respect for human rights and the fundamental democratic values on which Swedish society is founded. Freedom of religion is a human right which in Sweden is protected by, among other things, the form of government and the European Convention. Children's right to freedom of religion also follows the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child – the Convention on the Rights of the Child – which has been applicable as a Swedish law since 1 January 2020. Children and students should be given the opportunity to shape their own beliefs about religion or other beliefs. Discrimination on the grounds of religion is prohibited by the Discrimination Act in the field of education, among other things. According to the School Act and the Non-Discrimination Act, the school has an obligation to actively combat all forms of abusive treatment. The state's school inspection and the Equality Ombudsman supervise compliance with the provisions of the School Act and the Discrimination Act. It is the school heads who are responsible for the competence development of the school staff based on identified needs. If there is a need in schools for skills development in matters related to harassment and security and studies, the Swedish National Agency for Education offers resources and support for development work. On behalf of the Government, the Ombudsman for Children has developed recommendations and support resources with the aim of strengthening the implementation and work on the b a rn Convention. The Council has decided to add directives to the UE on effective and effective supervision of the Non-Discrimination Act. The special representative shall analyse, inter alia, how the supervision of the provisions of the Non-Discrimination Act in relation to the school governed area as a whole can be moved to S carbon inspection. The investigator shall report his publishers by 1 October 2020. The Government Office has decided that an investigator will assist the Ministry of Education in developing a proposal for a national plan for school work with security and studyo and submit proposals that ensure a functioning regulatory framework for safety and education at school. Madam President, I would like The government has taken a number of concrete steps, and our work continues. The goal is that all students should feel safe in school and not risk being subjected to any violations due to their faith and religion or other circumstances.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-562	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It has now been a few weeks since the report Young Believers in Society was published by the Christian Council of Sweden. It received justified attention by highlighting the problematic situation that many young believers are forced to live through. The Archbishop, together with church leaders of both the Free Church and the Catholic and Orthodox churches in Sweden, wrote and spoke about the report. They asked how the fact that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is now Swedish law can support children's and young people's freedom of religion. We have heard some of that in the Minister's reply. The fact that every other Christian youth feels violated for the sake of his faith and that in a quarter of the cases it is a teacher who violates causes many young people to hide their faith. It takes courage to dare to expose oneself to being violated in public in the classroom situation by a teacher who is in an addiction position. These students say that it is usually in connection with religious education or the scientific subjects that the violations occur. Young people say that teachers have a foolish tone of Christianity in relation to science and describe how high - school religious teachers engage in glaring over faith. A young person who belongs to an orthodox church writes: I lifted it several times but got no support from anyone in school. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like This is, of course, unacceptable. No student should be subjected to violations in school, least of all by his teacher. It is equally unacceptable that they should not receive support when they ask for it either. In my opinion, it is unworthy, not least in our country, which was one of the first to ratify the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It also states that children have a right to a faith. I appreciate the fact that Anna Ekström has, on several occasions, expressed her disapproval of this type of violation, and that is also evident in this response. I really appreciate that. However, in view of this strong reaction, I find the answer surprisingly lame. The Minister's assumption is that the school's principals, who are responsible under the School Act, comply with and enforce the provisions of the School Act and other regulations, even though the report shows that believing young people are almost systematically subjected to violations by teachers in the public school. There is clearly a need for massive training efforts but also for self-examination. Anna Ekström has previously stated from this pulpit that the Social Democracy has worked purposefully for several decades to reduce the role and influence of religion in society and in school. That is why, Madam President, I would like to ask the Minister whether she does not believe that this constant questioning of faith and religion may have directly contributed to the situation we see today, when believing people are suspected of being superstitious or less knowing. Does not the Social Democracy have a direct responsibility in this? Is it not time to admit that the Social Democracy has taken development too far?
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-572	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education, and thank you also to Gudrun Brunegård, who raises this very important question! This is an issue that has been largely obscured, and it is certainly one of the reasons why Sweden's Christian Council has carried out this study. I am very pleased that the issue is coming up for discussion, and now we need to get to grips with it and make sure that it is resolved so that even Christians can feel secure in their faith. I would like to start by saying that we have recently seen increased tolerance for certain groups, which is very positive. However, this study shows that there is still intolerance toward some other groups. This particular skewedness is problematic, to say the least, because it indicates that there is a pattern of practicing tolerance. Tolerance is learned for certain designated groups, but it is not possible to extend it to groups which are not already identified but which may also be persecuted, discriminated against and vulnerable. A tolerance based instead on reflection is much more useful, because it can be applied to new groups – even groups you have not learned to show tolerance for. I would like to hear about the Minister's view of the practice of tolerance and tolerance based on reflection.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-577	Madam President, I would like It is perfectly clear that Christians should feel secure in their faith and that Christians can also feel secure in their faith. From my point of view and that of the government, the question is really very simple: we have freedom of religion in our country. It is also a wealth that people, not least children, in our country can decide for themselves what they want to believe in and have the opportunity and the right to exercise their faith. I think it is a very positive part of our Swedish society and something we should be proud of. From there, to conclude that we should mix religion with the practice of authority is to go a little too far. Gudrun Brunegård says that I have questioned the possibility of religion acting or the importance of religion in society. I think she said so, Madam President. It's a long way from here. To me, it is obvious and obvious, and it is already legal, that we should have the right to believe in what we want and to practice the religion we believe in. From this one cannot conclude that the practice of religion should be mixed with the exercise of authority. I think that is the kind of discussion to which Gudrun Brunegård refers. In fact, the party that I represent and several other parties in the Swedish Parliament have worked for decades to keep religion and the exercise of power, the exercise of authority, separate. I am so old that I have my own memories of the time when the K risten democratic collection, as it was called at the time, seemed that it would be Christianity education in the Swedish school. Perhaps this is the kind of discussion that Gudrun Brunegård refers to. Christians have the right to be secure in their faith. Every child has the right to be secure in his or her faith and in the exercise of his or her faith. Several of the examples set out in the report referred to by Gudrun Brunegård are examples of things that are already not allowed today. The descriptions that Gudrun Brunegård gives of students who are not heard, yes, they show the need for complaint handling and an opportunity for children and students to turn to an outsider when they do not get their right and their security insured at school. I am calm and confident that, overall, the legislation is quite good. I am less calm and secure in the way in which legislation is applied in each individual school in each individual case. That is why, Madam President, it is important to remember that responsibility for fulfilling the school law and the other regulations here rests with the officials at school. It rests on the principals. It rests on the teachers in the classrooms and on the principals, who have an educational leadership. It is an important task for our principals to ensure that the conditions are in place for that responsibility to be fulfilled. When I remind you of the heavy and important responsibilities of the principals, I do not do that to sweep things under the carpet but to explain that that is where the demands are to be directed. I also got a question that was about making a distinction between reflecting and imposing, I think it was. I'm not going into it. I will readily admit that, as Minister, I do not have a really good answer to that question. It is an issue that has never come my way, and it is an issue that is not covered by any legislation – as far as I am aware. I would be happy to consider whether this is possibly an issue described in any political text. But I do not think so, Madam President. That's why I don't really know what to say, but I'm abstaining.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-584	Madam President, I would like I, too, think that one should absolutely distinguish between faith and the exercise of authority. It is one of the elements of the rule of law that we have religion on our own and power on our own and legislation on their own. I also think it is good that we have religious education. Not least in today's globalised society, it is very important to have insight into what are fundamental beliefs even in other religions. Nevertheless, today we have a situation in which many young people feel that they are being violated and that it is adults who violate – adults in leading positions. It's really serious, I think. What I am concerned about is that the secularization that has been going on in our society for a long time and that has been supported by the state – which has been social democratic for the majority of the time – has stressed this distinction so much that it does not understand how important faith and religion have also been to form a common foundation of values for our society. I think the Minister could even admit that it is Christianity that has laid the foundations for Western development and education with church schools, where the clock was a teacher. After all, the basic purpose of this was that each person could learn to read the writing himself and form his own opinion. I believe that such a signal from the Minister would be valuable. I would like to refer to another topic in this context. As I did in my previous speech, the ongoing secularisation has led many Swedes to believe in contrast to science. In fact, there is no such opposite. Instead, many very prominent scientists, even in the field of natural science, are at the same time warmly believing Christians. For example, the geneticist Francis Collin, a top name in biomedical research and evangelical Christian, and the biologist and devoted Orthodox Christian Theodosius Dobzhansky, who stated that nothing in biology is understandable except in the light of evolution. Not to mention the Belgian professor George Lemaître, who was one of the first scientists to lay the foundation for the theory of Big Bang, 80 years ago. He was an ordained priest and often lectured in a priest's dress. There is also a wide range of Nobel laureates who have deep Christian faith. The widespread bullying of believing young people, as shown by the Christian Council of Sweden, also occurs in other areas of education. There are several examples of students and even researchers high up in the university hierarchy being questioned because of their beliefs. This is not worthy of a country which is founded on democratic values and which recognises the equal value of all people. With these examples, I would like to say that, as part of establishing all these believing young people who are being violated for their beliefs by teachers and students, it could be appropriate to instruct the National Agency for Education to develop compulsory training not only on the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the European Convention and on Discrimination, as the Minister mentions, but also on faith and science – not as opposites but as fully compatible quantities. Madam President, I would like I would like to know whether the Minister would like to participate in such a training effort.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-594	Madam President, I would like I have great respect for the fact that the Minister does not want to answer a question that is new to the Minister or perhaps dressed in a language dress that the Minister does not recognize. What I'm talking about is the distinction between practicing tolerance and tolerance based on reflection. You learn to have tolerance for certain groups, because you learn that they are vulnerable. It's the rehearsed tolerance. The one based on reflection is based somewhere on a general respect for people. I hope that the Minister will not let go of this idea and would like to add indications that this is indeed the case. Even the legislation in Sweden is based a little on the practice of tolerance. Discrimination legislation identifies seven different grounds for discrimination. It has already been decided there that someone can be discriminated against if it belongs to one of these groups, but not if it belongs to another group. At the same time, we know that the reality is completely different – a person can actually be discriminated against for just about anything. IFAU came up with a report that showed just that. Fake employment studies were carried out and found that overweight was what people were most discriminated against for, but overweight is not one of the seven grounds for discrimination. This was a recording. I would like to conclude by saying that I think it is a good thing that the Minister would like to see better application of the legislation. However, I would like to ask what the Minister will do specifically on the basis of the study that the Christian Council of Sweden has commissioned.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-600	Madam President, I would like I can begin by replying to the latest and saying that a clear starting point for school activities is the equal and inviolable value of all people. If there is a partial answer to the question of whether tolerance should be reserved for certain groups or not, I leave it unsaid, but to me it is self-evident that the equal value of all people and the inviolability of people's equal value is a starting point in our school law and also in several other important legislations. I turn to what Gudrun Brunegård asked about last time. I can well begin by saying: So good that Gudrun Brunegård agrees that the practice of religion should not be confused with the exercise of authority or with public power, and so good that Gudrun Brunegård says that faith and science should be kept separate. Or did Gudrun Brunegård really say that? For me, it is self-evident that the school's activities, both education and teaching at school, should be based on scientific basis and on proven experience. In teaching, science and proven experience are an obvious starting point. Science and proven experience in this context should be seen as standing on their own feet. There is no different science and proven experience for the teacher or student who has or does not have a Christian or other faith or who does not believe at all. This foundation applies to our teaching; it should be based on science and proven experience. That also applies, Madam President, to religious education. Moreover, the fact that you – besides this – as a teacher, as a student, and indeed as a scientist or a scientific woman can have a personal faith or not have a personal faith is quite another matter. I am very keen that the Swedish school will continue in its teaching based on science and proven experience, and I assume that Gudrun Brunegård shares this conviction. It could be interpreted differently, given the small excursion around a number of professed Christian scientists, but I still assume that Gudrun Brunegård agrees with me on this point. There was a question as to whether any further training measures are planned in connection with the survey carried out by the Christian Council of Sweden. For my part, I am convinced that this survey is important. It leads to discussions in classrooms, teachers' rooms, schoolyards and coffee rooms, and that is very good. This is a question that is very much about how the headmaster leads his school and how the teacher leads the teaching. A constant reflection by the principal and teacher on how these things are handled is of course the most effective. At the same time, it is well worth knowing that we have a Convention on the Rights of the Child that has just become law. Government training measures are planned to address the implications of this new legislation for, among other things, those working in school. Above all, it is the Children's Ombudsman who is responsible for this type of training, and I hope that it will be able to contribute to ensuring that children and pupils have their right. That is a right they already have in the legislation. I would also like to point out the national plan for security and study that the government has just started. It is an extraordinary result of the cooperation we have with the Center Party and the Liberals.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-610	Madam President, I would like I must have expressed myself very unclear as to whether the Minister could get the picture that I was hovering on the case as to what the teaching should contain. The teaching should of course be based on science and proven experience; I think that is absolutely obvious. But it must also be able to convey respect for the fact that, as an individual, whether one is a teacher, a researcher or a student somewhere, one can reconcile this scientific basis with a personal belief. That is why I mentioned these eminent scientists, who have actually succeeded in this in an excellent way. Especially those teachers who speak condescendingly and insultingly to students who have faith when trying to teach – whether it is in religious knowledge or in science, who were the subjects that the Christian Council of Sweden mentioned as the most prevalent – must have the insight that you are not necessarily less knowing just because you have a faith. I believe that this is a very important element of further education, because this insight is clearly not in the minds of teachers who violate students, nor in those in the university world who question the credibility of research by someone who happens to be Christian or have any other faith. I think that in many ways we really think the same, although we might put it differently. I appreciate this discussion and thank you very much for it.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-613	Madam President, I would like No child and no student should be violated in school because of the student's faith or religion or for any other reason. Being subjected to violations affects the experience of security and study and thus affects both the students' ability to learn much as well as their opportunities to enjoy and be happy in school and their ability to exercise their religious beliefs. There is a ban on school staff from offending students. If pupils violate each other or are violated by the staff of the school, the school should work actively with measures against this. There are also established rules on how students can report the perceived violations to the school or to external authorities. This is very good, because the school should be a place where children are safe and where children with different backgrounds and different opinions can meet. Madam President, I would like This could be seen as a debate in which we have wrapped a lot of open doors. I have constantly repeated the same thing in the interpellation response and in all my speeches. School values and school legislation are clear: No child and no student should be violated because of their religious beliefs or because the student does not believe. Madam President, I would like One might think that this is a meaningless interpellation debate, but I think the opposite is true. It is very important that we representatives of different parties together stand up for children and students in Sweden to have the right to exercise their faith without having to be subjected to violations. It is also very important that children who feel that they are being questioned because of their religious beliefs, origin or background have the support of society.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-617	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me what the government is doing to reduce wage and income inequalities and increase women's economic empowerment, what the government is doing to stop the value discrimination of women-dominated professions and what the government wants to do to ensure that the Mediation Institute's mission to protect the industry standard does not become an obstacle to equal pay. Economic equality is an important issue for me as Minister for Equal Opportunities. Women and men must have the same opportunities and conditions in terms of paid work that give economic independence for the rest of their lives. Sweden has a long way to go to economic equality. As Amineh Kakabaveh states, there was a gender pay gap of 10.7% in 2018. Although the wage gap has narrowed by 5.6 percentage points since 2005, changes are slow. One of the most important explanations for the pay gap is the gender-disaggregated labour market, where men are over-represented in occupations and positions with higher wages. However, wage differentials do not give the full picture of economic inequality. In 2017, women had on average 77 per cent of men's individual disposable income, a proportion that has not changed significantly since 1995, despite the fact that the differences between women's and men's labour income have decreased. However, the positive development of the labour market has been countered by the increasing importance of capital income and the simultaneous reduction in the redistributive effect of taxes and transfers between women and men. The differences in labour income are also not only a result of the pay gap. They are also affected by lower employment rates, shorter working hours and higher absenteeism due to parental leave and ill-health than men. It contributes to lower pensions and income from life. The overly low participation rate of women born abroad also contributes to economic inequality. The Government has implemented several measures that can reduce the differences in women's and men's income. One example is the Government's action plan for equal income in life, which presents the measures taken in 2017 to reduce income inequality. Another is the government's goal of pursuing full-time work for both women and men. The third reserved month of parental insurance, introduced in 2016, has meant that men's take-up of parental benefit has increased during the child's first two years of life. The employment and self-sufficiency of more women born abroad is a high priority for the government. There is a need for a clear gender perspective in all start-up measures. Labour market training needs to be more effective, more strategic and more equal. Combating wage discrimination and inappropriate pay differentials between women and men is an important issue for the government. One tool to combat inappropriate pay differentials is wage mapping. The Non-Discrimination Act contains provisions including requirements for employers to make a pay survey. In 2017, the rules on salary mapping were tightened both in terms of the frequency of salary surveys and those subject to the documentation obligation. There are indications that the anti-discrimination law is not being complied with sufficiently. The government wants to see sharper sanctions against employers who do not comply with the legislation and has therefore set up an investigation to review what measures are needed to ensure compliance with the rules. Employers also need to have knowledge of the legislation in order to comply with it. The Government has therefore commissioned the Discrimination Ombudsman, DO, to take knowledge-raising efforts to ensure that employers are aware of the law's requirements to work with active measures. One of the pillars of the Swedish labour market model is that the social partners have a primary responsibility for wage formation. The Swedish wage formation model has contributed to sustained real wage growth for a long time. In its survey of the salary situation between 2014 and 2017, the Mediation Institute notes that there has been a positive relative wage change for women-dominated occupational groups, including nurses, teachers and nurses. The results do not suggest that the model of wage formation stands in the way of changes in the relative pay situation of different professions. However, differences remain between women's and men's dominated professions. In conclusion, Madam President, yesterday the government decided to set up an equal income commission. The Commission shall make proposals aimed at increasing economic equality between men and women in the long term, inter alia by proposing measures to promote equal pay, equal income and an equal distribution of public support measures to women and men. The Commission shall also identify the need for statistics on the pay gap between women and men at employer or other appropriate level. Furthermore, the Commission will analyse the Icelandic wage certification model and the UK and German wage transparency models, with a focus on how these could be developed and adapted to be applied in Sweden.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-625	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Åsa Lindhagen, for a committed and ambitious answer! It is positive that the government wants to prioritise and highlight this important issue of equal pay. In two days it will be 8 March, International Women's Day. It is therefore important to see what we are doing both internationally and locally. I am just from Järva, where I met women who have quite different problems in terms of equal work and equal pay. But let us remember that in this country, where we can be very proud in many areas, we celebrate 100 years of struggle for equality. In fact, it was at the end of last year that the celebration of democracy began. Through women's struggle with sweat and tears, we have got the equal society that we have. Women, both young and older, who have higher education than men still earn less. As I said, the difference in pay for men and women is 10.7%. This is equivalent to SEK 50 000 less in the budget each year for women. Income differentials are also significant due to the fact that women work part-time significantly more. It has a major impact on women's power, influence and freedom. Among other things, one in five women states that she would not be able to afford to separate from her partner. Unfortunately, the differences would be even greater among women in the suburbs, those who live in honorary culture and cannot even come out and work. That is why it is so important that we fight in different areas. The figures speak for themselves on the pay gap in certain occupations between men and women. The pay situation in women-dominated occupations is worse than in other comparable occupations that are male-dominated or gender-balanced. This is due, among other things, to the fact that we have a wage-setting model in which industry sets the standard for the rate of wage increase, which makes it difficult for women-dominated professions to catch up. Resources are also needed to ensure competitive salaries for women-dominated professions, such as social workers, nurses, nurses and teachers. How else are we going to cope with the great shortage of labour in our common well-being? It must, of course, cost discrimination. It is very positive that the government is now setting up an investigation, because it is absolutely incredible that if others do not comply with the law it will be a penalty, but not if employers do not. Unfair pay differentials must be corrected. When the Salary movement started eight years ago, women were paid only until 3:51 p.m. Now, eight years later, the other day, we were declared to be paid until 4:09 p.m. This means that we have an enormous number of years left until we earn as much as men.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-633	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the honourable Member for highlighting these extremely important issues. Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries. We are not equal, but we have come a long way in the work on gender equality. This is due not least to the fact that we have given women opportunities to enter the labour market. We expanded childcare in the '70s. We have parental insurance. We abolished co-taxation in 1971 and several structural obstacles preventing women from gaining economic empowerment. This fight is not over. We need to fight to ensure that women generally have the same economic power and independence as men. But we also need to look at what freedom and opportunities look like for different groups of women. Women are not a homogeneous group, and the conditions are very different. For example, women with disabilities are less able to enter the labour market and are more economically vulnerable. It is therefore a very important issue to work with. This also applies to opportunities for women born abroad, as the Member of Parliament mentioned. Of non-European women born, 26% are completely inactive, i.e. they are neither in employment nor in labour market intervention. It is therefore more than one in four non-European born women whose skills and capacities we do not take advantage of. There is also a link with the fight against violence when we talk about economic independence and empowerment. It is extremely important that women have the opportunity to leave a relationship, and we must do what we can to make it easier for women to gain protection and support to emerge from a violent relationship. We shall fight violence, and an important part of this is to give women good opportunities to establish themselves in the labour market so that they have their own money and can control their own lives. These are important issues, and we need to take further steps to combat the economic inequality that still exists in Sweden in 2020.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-640	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its commitment and for highlighting the situation of both disabled women and immigrant women. The Cold Facts told us a few weeks ago that 100 000 immigrant women are outside the labour market. If they came in with lower wages and part-time jobs, the gap between men and women would be even greater. We must do something in budgets and investments. Otherwise, equality will deteriorate and go backwards instead of forwards. In many areas we are making great progress, but not in all. The law is clear. The gender should not determine the salary. I have heard that all my years in Sweden. Yet employers can discriminate on wages without any consequences. But now work needs to be speeded up and sanctions tightened up. It should cost to discriminate. Although many women have both better education and a higher position, they earn an average of SEK 3,900 less a month than men. For 40 years now, it has been forbidden to discriminate on wages, and since 1994, employers have been required to make a pay survey to detect and correct inappropriate pay differentials. Yet far too little happens. One reason the law is toothless is that oversight is inadequate. We are legislating in this House, but unfortunately we are not following them up, which is a general problem. Employers who do not care about fixing the pay gap must be encouraged to comply with the law. If they don't, it'll cost you. There is insufficient supervision since the Equality Ombudsman took over responsibility from the Equality Ombudsman. Among other things, JämO carried out the Million Review, where inappropriate wage differentials of 70 billion were discovered and corrected. Madam President, I would like Several measures must be taken to ensure that wages are equal and equal. It is positive that the government has set up an investigation into supervision and sanctions, but that is not enough. More needs to be done, for example, to demand more efforts to achieve equal pay. Does the Government agree that wage discrimination must be addressed, supervision increased and sanctions tightened? There is hardly any mention of the strengthening of the supervision of the Discrimination Ombudsman. Does the Government also agree that a new million-dollar review should be carried out in order to tighten sanctions against employers who break the law? The DO and the social partners must also work more actively to combat all forms of discrimination, such as sexual harassment and abuse in the workplace.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-651	Madam President, I would like In the last parliamentary term, we tightened up the anti-discrimination legislation. This means that employers have a responsibility to work actively to prevent all forms of discrimination in their workplaces. These include wage discrimination on the basis of gender and sexual harassment. Women should be safe in their workplaces. If the employer doesn't do this job, it doesn't happen very much. That is precisely why I have set up this investigation, which will, among other things, look at the consequences of not complying with Swedish legislation. We shall disseminate the knowledge that this legislation exists, in order to better support employers in their work. It's an important part. But it is also important to say that if you do not comply with Swedish law, there will be consequences. I agree that this is important, even in the case of men's and women's wages, where there can sometimes be wage discrimination. We have a pay gap of 10.7% between men and women. But that figure does not say anything about what women actually get paid because it does not take into account the fact that women work part-time and are on parental leave to a greater extent and have almost twice as much sick leave as men. This, of course, affects the income of life. It is estimated that there is an average of $3 million in living income between women and men, and that is big money. I usually say that money is power, and power is to be distributed equally. These are therefore important issues. Yesterday, as I said, the government decided to set up an equal income commission. It is tasked with working broadly on these issues. These are not simple questions, but we are not just giving up because it is difficult. We must continue to drive this work forward. The Commission shall, inter alia, look at the distribution of public support measures. We have seen that there is inequality in, for example, Arbetsförmedlingen's activities. For example, women may find it harder than men to get involved. But, of course, public intervention should be divided equally. The Commission will also look at how to create equal jobs. Of course, it is also important for everyone to feel safe and feel good at work. The sickness rate must be reduced, and gender equality is an important part of this. That is one of the things the Commission should be working on. It's supposed to do other things, too. It is important that we have set up this Commission, and I look forward to it coming back with proposals on how to take gender equality forward in Sweden.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-661	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Equal Opportunities for good answers. It is good that the government is trying to follow up the laws that employers do not comply with. Unfortunately, this also applies to our own well-being, where the state and municipalities are employers. There are many women-dominated professions, such as my profession, socionomists, where women, despite having a high level of education equivalent to men's, do not have the same wage range. It is of course important to attract more men into the profession, but this does not mean that women's pay should not be increased. On the contrary, women's wages should be raised to make it attractive for men to come and work in women-dominated professions. The entire salary and half the power have been discussed for decades and centuries in Sweden, but we are still not there. More measures need to be taken to make the structural pay gap visible in the professional sectors. I think it is time for an equality pool in every gender equality budget for certain professions that are dominated by women. Most of the time, the municipalities cannot afford it, and even if the social partners – both employers and trade unions – are in agreement, there is no money. It is therefore time to correct this and to have such a pot. I hope the Minister agrees with me. As we mentioned, parental insurance and part-time work are, of course, a reason.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-666	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank the honourable Member for raising these important issues, which we need to draw attention to all year round, not least in the run-up to International Women's Day. But these are issues that we need to work on constantly. This is one of our most important gender issues. I would like to highlight what the Member of Parliament was talking about when it comes to the employers' responsibility of municipalities. This is an extremely important issue. When I was a municipal politician, we made a low-wage investment in the municipality where I worked. It went mainly to women, because they were the ones who worked in the professions where there were lower wages. This is an issue that is important for us politicians at national level, but also at local and regional level, where you are an employer and actually have the opportunity to make such kinds of efforts. Then, perhaps a little surprising, we have had a discussion here in Parliament about the welfare billions. Of course, it is positive that we are strengthening welfare, which is an important issue for the government. During both the previous term of office and this term of office, we have spent billions of dollars on welfare, and now there will be another five billion on welfare in addition to the efforts we have announced in the past. Of those who work in the municipal sector, 80 percent are women, so when we strengthen welfare, we make Sweden a stronger country. In order to build a strong Sweden, it is extremely important that we invest in welfare. For those people who work in the welfare of the local government sector, which is 80% women, this is in fact also an important part of strengthening their ability to do a good job at their workplace. Again: Thank you for raising these important issues in the Swedish Parliament!
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-671	Madam President, I would like Mattias Karlsson has asked me what measures I take to make the 50 replacement jobs in Kiruna happen. The background is that in June 2018, the Government presented a proposal for approximately 120 new state jobs in Kiruna to help replace the jobs that would disappear in connection with the decommissioning of Radiotjänst in Kiruna AB. The proposal concerned a package that included the authorities Lantmäteriet, the Swedish Tax Agency and the National Service Centre. As far as Lantmäteriet and the Swedish Tax Agency are concerned, these establishments have been fully or largely implemented. However, the establishment of the State Service Centre in Kiruna, which was proposed to cover about 50 jobs, has not yet been implemented. The Government has taken several measures linked to the ambition to establish an office for the State Service Centre in Kiruna. In June 2018, the State Service Centre was commissioned to prepare for the localisation of parts of its operations to Kiruna. In November 2018 and February 2019 respectively, the State Service Centre submitted two reports to the Government. In the reports, the State Service Centre proposed, among other things, that the Government should decide that it should be mandatory for additional authorities with large volumes of production to join the financial services of the State Service Centre. The Authority assessed that an establishment in Kiruna requires larger case volumes, i.e. that more authorities use the services of the State Service Centre, in this case electronic ordering and invoice handling services. Without major case volumes, the establishment of operations in Kiruna would have to lead to reductions in the activities of the State Service Centre in other locations outside the Stockholm area. The Ministry of Finance has subsequently drawn up and referred a memorandum proposing a provision to the effect that the authorities decided by the Government should be obliged to join the Swedish Service Centre's electronic ordering and invoice management services. If this proposal is implemented, it is assessed as a need for the State Service Centre to recruit approximately 50 annual workers, which according to the memorandum should be located in Kiruna. The referral has come in, and the proposal is now being prepared in the Government Office. I have recently answered a written question on this subject from Mattias Karlsson's party colleague Lars Beckman. In my answer to the question, I stated that my ambition is to come back with further information on the matter in the near future. I cannot, today in this House, specify the time or the meaning of such a statement, but I can assure you that it is working on the matter and that the ambition to come back to us in the near future remains.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-675	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Minister for his reply. The background to this interpellation debate is the promise that the government made in June 2018 to replace jobs to Kiruna and then the increase in funding that the House decided on when it approved the Moderates' and Christian Democrats' joint budget motion for 2019. In mid-November 2018, we here in the Riksdag decided to replace the radio and television fee with a general public service fee charged via the tax. The decision meant the end of Radiotjänst in Kiruna, which since 1988 has collected the fee from all households that have a television set. For 30 years, Radiotjänst employees have ensured that the funding of a politically independent public service has worked. They have in their way helped to maintain a free and open democratic society. Despite previous promises to the contrary, there was no funding to replace the jobs of Radiotjänst when the previous transitional government presented its budget proposal for 2019. On the other hand, the Riksdag chose to approve the joint budget motion of Moderates and Christian Democrats for 2019, where there was an increase in funding for the Swedish Tax Agency, Lantmäteriet and the Swedish Service Centre for these agencies to create 120 replacement jobs in Kiruna. When Radiotjänst in Kiruna was finally closed on New Year's Eve, just over two months ago, still 50 of these promised replacement jobs were missing. Lantmäteriet and the Swedish Cat Agency have fulfilled or are about to fulfil their commitments, but as regards the State Service Centre, the promised new establishment in Kiruna has not yet taken place. Many people now ask themselves why the services are not appointed according to the promises made by the Government, as the Riksdag has allocated the funds. In the newspaper Kollega, which is the Union's member magazine, an interview with August Tapojärvi, who was then president of the Union Club at Radiotjänst, was held shortly before the New Year. He spoke this way in the interview: I'm not getting any clear information. We're working on it, and that's the only answer I get when I contact them. Does Minister Micko wish to comment on the view that it feels that the government has not kept its promise on this issue?
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-681	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would really like to emphasise that the Government is serious about its ambition to present a proposal that means more jobs to Kiruna. The important thing is that it will be good, both for Kiruna and for the state administration. It is more important than a quick response. As regards the State Service Centre and the basis for the services in question, I can say that the funding invoked by Mattias Karlsson only covered part of this establishment. It was about premises and training, not jobs. So it is still the case that there must be a basis for the State Service Centre to be located there anyway. That is exactly what the government is working on at the moment.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-683	Madam President, I would like Let me go back to the response to my interpellation that the Government has delivered. I may find it very strange that the government now chooses to link a new establishment in Kiruna to requirements for larger case volumes for the State Service Centre's services. In its reply, the Government states that, without significant volume of cases, the establishment of operations in Kiruna would have to lead to reductions in the activities of the State Service Centre in other locations outside the Stockholm area. ..................................................... I would like to emphasise that there was no demand for increased volume of cases when the Government made the promise in June 2018 of replacement jobs or when the Riksdag decided on the increase in appropriations for the financial year 2019. Regardless of this, the business would be established in Kiruna. I am also confused when the Government believes that it is activities in locations outside the Stockholm area that would have to make reductions if operations were to be moved to Kiruna. Why is it the government's desire to secure operations in Stockholm? Furthermore, it is strange that it does not seem to be obvious that a new establishment will end up in Kiruna, even if it is the case that the volume of cases increases. If the volume of cases for the State Service Centre increases so that it entails a need to recruit 50 annual labour forces, the Government states in its reply that these should be located in Kiruna. The government can't mean it. It must be that they will be located in Kiruna, right?
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-687	Madam President, I would like Let me underline a couple of things. One is that the establishment of the State Service Centre's services to Kiruna is about an increased volume for the State Service Centre. This means that, according to the Government's proposal, it is the authorities that, together with the State Service Centre, have to deliver this – it is not from other activities in the State Service Centre. Should we do that today, it would mean moving jobs from locations such as Gävle and Östersund, and it is not relevant to do so. What the preparation is about is the basis for these invoice services and more from other authorities. It is therefore important for this to be good, for this basis to exist and for us to be able to present a proposal that is actually comprehensive. Therefore, it is important that we make a good preparation of this and that we can present more services to Kiruna, as we have said before, and that we have been able to see that it is also a case volume that is actually sufficient to be able to operate there.
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-689	Madam President, I would like Although hope is the last thing that abandons one, I now begin to feel a distrust as to whether the government will really deliver the replacement jobs that were so solemnly promised in June 2018. When I read the annual report for 2019 for the Swedish Service Centre, I can see that during the year it had established operations in administrative services in Sollefteå. Not a word was mentioned about any work to create operations in Kiruna, despite the Government's promise and the Riksdag's decision. As a friend of order, one might ask why this is so. To seek answers to this, I went in and read the regulatory letter for the agency for 2019. Consider my surprise, but the government does not write anything about the requirement for the authority to create a new establishment in Kiruna. The only thing you write about is the budget line that the Riksdag decided on. And in this context it is written that the budget line may be used for expenditure on financing the establishment. You write can be used and should not be used. Then I thought that surely something must have been said in the regulation letter for this year – 2020. So I brought it out too. But even in this year's regulatory letter, the government does not say anything about the requirement for the agency to comply with the promises made more than a year and a half ago. In her reply, the Government says that she promises to return to the matter in the near future. What does the Government mean by the near term? Is it in a few days, a few weeks, a few months or a few years?
i-3eb8f34bfe11fe75-694	Madam President, I would like It is Mattias Karlsson's own conclusion to have mistrust. I do not have this mistrust. We are working to ensure that this is good. This means that it will be good for Kiruna, which has been promised before, and for the state administration. The services of the State Service Centre are funded by a fee, and it is important that this is a preparation that keeps all the way together with the authorities involved. We have said that we should ensure that this is a good establishment. In addition, I would like to reiterate very much that the funding available in the M-KD budget was only part of the funding in order to be able to do this. A good analysis and a good preparation are needed here in order to come up with a proposal that is valid. The state and the government are serious about ensuring that there is a presence from authorities in different ways throughout the country. Kiruna is important there. I can also emphasise that we will come back in the near future with a proposal.
