i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-0	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what measures I intend to take to strengthen consumer protection for consumers who have followed the government's call and converted prepaid travel into vouchers. He has also asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the approximately 1 million consumers who have bought journeys will have their money paid back. The new Corona virus that causes the disease covid-19 is primarily a danger to life and health, but it also has major consequences for society and the economy at large. This is not least a tough situation for the travel industry and for those travellers whose journeys are cancelled. As far as the first question is concerned, it is not true that the government would have called on consumers to accept vouchers instead of money refunds for cancellations. It is not for the government to inform individual travellers of their rights vis-à-vis tour operators or to administer the travel guarantee scheme. There are administrative authorities responsible for this. The Swedish Consumer Agency, which has the task of making information and guidance about consumers' rights and obligations available, has on the website of the information service Hello consumer! In March, it was informed that travellers are not obliged to accept certificates of value instead of receiving their money back. Kammarkollegiet, which handles, inter alia, applications for reimbursement from the travel guarantee scheme, has informed on its website on the conditions under which travellers can be granted compensation due to the current pandemic. It shows, among other things, that if a package tour is cancelled for any reason other than insolvency or bankruptcy, or if the traveller cancels the trip himself, no compensation will be paid from the travel guarantee. In May, the Government commissioned Kammarkollegiet to produce and disseminate information as soon as possible that clarifies whether and under which conditions vouchers and similar vouchers relating to package travel and linked travel arrangements are covered by a given travel guarantee. The information would include the possibilities and risks of having such a voucher compared to a claim for a refund in money if the tour operator goes bankrupt. The Kammarkollegiet has subsequently, in response to the Government's mandate, provided clear information that the vouchers offered by tour operators to their customers in the event of cancellations of journeys rather than repayments in money are not covered by the travel guarantee of the travel company. The authority states that the person who has chosen a tt accept a voucher instead of a refund in money should use it to book a new trip to be covered by a travel guarantee. With regard to the second question, it should first be noted that there is a high level of consumer protection in relation to travel. The regulatory framework is highly harmonised across the EU. The Swedish Consumer Agency has a supervisory responsibility in this area and, as has been mentioned, is also actively engaged in information work towards consumers. If a traveller does not agree with a tour operator on the right to reimbursement of a package tour, he or she may contact the General Complaints Board to have the case examined. The traveller can also appeal to a public court. The current Travel Guarantee Act, which entered into force in 2018, implements a number of provisions on insolvency protection in the EU Package Travel Directive and linked travel arrangements. When the rules were introduced, the government considered it appropriate to design the system in direct line with the requirements of the EU Directive, i.e. in such a way that the right to compensation from the travel guarantee scheme should exist when a trip is cancelled as a result of the insolvency of the organiser. The Parliament had no objection to this, but approved the bill. The Swedish travel guarantee system is therefore currently a purely insolvency protection. If the rules of the travel guarantee scheme were to be amended to cover other situations, such as cancellation of the journey due to the advice of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs or cancellation by the traveller for some reason, this would entail higher costs for the travel agents. Finally, the government continues to monitor and analyse developments and is also examining further measures in the light of the negative consequences of the spread of the covid-19 disease for consumers and businesses.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-11	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Interpellation is, as the Government said, about about 1 million consumers who have paid for travel and may be going on their dream holiday. It may be someone who has been saving for a number of years – a family with children in Hofors to make their dream trip. Then came the virus, which has made travel impossible. First of all, I would like to say that the Government is either not really truthful in its response or also interprets the previous answers from the Government itself and from Minister Baylan. We Moderates have been active on this issue. We have put forward a committee initiative in the Committee on Civil Affairs in order to find a solution that will allow the family of children in Hofors to get their money back. I have asked written questions to the Government itself but also to the Minister for Economic Affairs about how to resolve the situation. There are two written answers, one from Minister Baylan, which was issued on 16 June. There he talks about the fact that many more travellers accept certificates of value instead of refunds, it could be part of reducing the financial pressure on the travel industry. Then reference is made to the EU. In fact, the same thing has been said by the Minister himself in another written reply: a recommendation on the use of vouchers following the outbreak of covid-19. ..................................................... This means that two ministers have given a message to the Swedish people, via the Swedish parliament, that you can and perhaps even should use vouchers and valuables. What, then, is the problem with this, Madam President? Well, it is that the person who has replaced his prepaid trip with a gift card or a voucher ends up completely without consumer protection. If the organiser, airline or travel agency goes bankrupt, there is no guarantee whatsoever. We Moderates have paid attention to this. We have conducted a dialogue with both Sweden's Consumers and the travel industry itself. What we have asked is how we in politics can help to find a solution to the problem. If a family with children in Hofors has paid a large sum and saved for several years to go on their dream trip and there will be a coronavirus then politics must find a solution. At least that's what we Moderates think. It has been proposed that we look at Denmark, for example, where a fund has been set up. The fund is self-financed, that is, politics must spend maybe 6 billion in Sweden. The money is paid back to consumers, but then a small fee is paid. Just as the Government said in the answer to my interpellation, there may be a little more expensive trips in the future. Yes, it might be that every trip for 20 years ahead will be $2.50 (U.S.). Precisely how such a fund would do or exactly how such a proposal would be designed in a Swedish context, of course, the Riksdag does not have the opportunity to sort out, but the government must do so with its investigative resources. That is why we took the committee initiative this spring in the Civil Committee. We wanted to urge the government to find a solution to the problem. We do not think that a family with children in Hofors, who has been saving money for years for their dream trip, should now see the money frozen in. We don't think that's reasonable. My colleague David Josefsson will talk about this from an industrial point of view, because there are a number of travel agencies who have also ended up in a very difficult situation due to the pandemic. I will come back to this in my next speech.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-21	Madam President, I would like I thank Lars Beckman for putting forward a highly topical interpellation. Just as Lars Beckman highlights, today's situation is hitting hard on all Swedes who have booked travel and who, due to the government's paralysis, are in danger of standing up with useless vouchers. They are vouchers that will not be redeemable in the event of insolvency, nor will they be included in the travel guarantee. What I think is important to remember in this context is that tour operators themselves cannot be blamed for this situation. Instead, tour operators are effectively subject to an almost complete professional ban. It has been impossible to arrange travel during the current pandemic, while the Package Travel Act has not been written based on such a situation, especially when the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' travel recommendations are constantly at risk of being changed. It will be an element 22 for the tour operators. Then the big question is: What is the long-term impact on the Swedish travel industry? What happens when consumers realise that the voucher system developed by the government does not provide adequate protection, as Lars Beckman pointed out? And above all, what happens to Swedish tour operators when they can no longer offer adequate consumer protection to their customers? Will travel agencies survive at all, and will they dare to bet when they get caught as the law today is designed? In Gothenburg, from which I come, there are several major travel agencies. And many in the business are very worried about the future. Just before the summer, the Gothenburg-based giant Resia went into reconstruction, and a few weeks ago the language travel group STS – also the one with its head office in Gothenburg – went bankrupt but was soon able to restart the business thanks to new owners. According to a survey of the travel industry association SRF in May, nine out of ten travel agencies feared that they would go bankrupt because of Corona. According to the same trade association, as much as 83 per cent of the employees of travel agents and tour operators were laid-off in August of this year. This compares with 42% for hotels and restaurants, which are another sector that is extremely crisis-ridden. But the travel industry is almost twice as high. The cut in business was 12%. It is thus 83% against 42%, and 83% against 12%. I think we should let this sink in. These figures are breathtaking and of course not sustainable in the long term. If this situation continues, Sweden risks not having a travel industry left after the pandemic. This does not mean, of course, that Swedes will not continue to travel. But if companies, and ultimately jobs, disappear from Sweden, foreign players will instead enter the Swedish market. It is not necessarily to the benefit of either Swedish consumers or Swedish jobs.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-28	Madam President, I would like Government! 1 million travelers have lost money because of the coronapndemine. Many travel agencies have gone bankrupt, just as my colleague David Josefsson told me here. What's the problem? Why doesn't anything happen? The Green Party cannot destroy this issue as well and block a development in order to save this industry. The industry has proposed that it should be a fund to deal with this. What's the government waiting for?
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-30	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that I am here to answer questions in my capacity as Minister of Consumer Affairs, not Minister of Enterprise. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to say, in response to the questions that have been asked, including those from David Josefsson, that the government has indeed given a great deal of support. Then you can always discuss the focus on support for the industries. But we are now, together with the companies, following very closely the developments to see how this beats. We'll have to get back to that. Lars Beckman talks about the tasks we have given and the answers to the questions that have been given in the past. To commission the Kammarkollegiet to investigate whether vouchers could be a system was according to what other countries have done. It is very important that we constantly analyse what is possible to do. It is in the light of this that we have also stated that it may be an alternative. Now we have a clear answer on the part of the Kammarkollegiet. Just in accordance with the answer I have given, it is important to say that it is extremely important for consumers to know what rights they have when it comes to getting their money back. An alternative with a certificate of value means that in that case they should book a new trip. I really want to say that we in Sweden have a high level of consumer protection, unlike many other countries. Then there is always a lot that we need to think about whether it can be done better. Due to the pandemic, it is important how we follow up on this, and it is a discussion that we have with the Swedish Consumer Agency. The General Complaints Board, Arn, receives a reinforcement of SEK 3 million this year. Next year, according to the bill, it will be SEK 2 million more, depending on the cases that exist. Of course it will be important both with the prevention efforts and how we strengthen consumer protection in the context of the current pandemic. Comparisons have been made with Denmark. The system that we have in Sweden, which I mentioned in the reply, with individual guarantees, was unanimously supported by the Parliament and thought that it was a good balance between consumer protection and nutritional protection. No one could have foreseen the pandemic, and this is set in a new light. We also look at how other Nordic countries work. In Denmark, for example, I know that there is now a discussion about the fund that is being held there is really robust and can do this. There must therefore be constant discussion of which actions have the most impact. Changing one system from one day to another is not easy to do. The basis for our way of working in Sweden with the guarantees was decided in the Riksdag 2018. Then, together with the other Nordic countries, we need to see if any changes are to be made. But it remains.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-39	Madam President, I would like There is no political conflict whatsoever about the General Complaints Board, Arn. Arn has examined these questions, whether you are entitled to repayment or not, and Arn has also said that you as a consumer are entitled to repayment. So this is not the issue. The question concerns exactly what my colleague David Josefsson said, namely the travel agencies. It does not matter whether there are any number of ARN decisions in the case of a travel agency if you do not have money to pay back to the consumer. This also applies to the company directly controlled by the Minister – SAS. I don't know if the minister usually reads Dagens Nyheter, Aftonbladet and Expressen, listen to Ekott and watch TV. Many desperate consumers have gone out in the media and said: we must get the money back. 25 000 SEK may be a little money for a minister in a Swedish government. But for a family with children in Hofors, it's a lot of money. Maybe you've been saving up for years to make that dream trip. No one could have predicted the pandemic. But when this happens, the government must, of course, act. In a normal situation, we have a satisfactory level of consumer protection. I'm sure it'll be better at the margin. But this is not a normal situation, Madam President. This is a pandemic. An emergency response is required in an emergency situation. Madam President, I would like I will not stand in the pulpit and speculate, but the government consists of two parties. I would not be surprised if it were the Green Party that is blocking this issue. Perhaps it goes against the inner soul and DNA of one of the government parties to ensure that consumers who have purchased just flights get their money back. How else is it to explain that minister after minister in the spring, in answers to my questions and my colleagues' questions, says that they follow developments closely and will come back with measures if necessary? I think that's exactly how you formulate yourself. It is said that the government is in contact with trade associations and trade unions and is closely following developments. What is the government intending to wait for? What are you waiting for? That the pandemic would somehow magically disappear this month, I don't think the government believes. Nor do I believe that the Council of State believes that the pandemic will disappear before Christmas. So how are consumers going to get their money back? That's what the interpellation is about. What does the government intend to do based on the reality? A parliamentary decision from 2018 has nothing to do with covid-19; there was not a Member of Parliament who would then believe that the whole world would be shut down at the same time. But when that happens, the government must, of course, act. We could have supported our initiative in the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs this spring and said: let us look at the issue without preconditions! Let us look without preconditions, in a Swedish context, at whether you can create the fund that the industry itself has called for and that Sweden's consumers have said they see very positively. I have spoken to representatives of Sweden's Consumers myself and asked how they as Sweden's most important consumer organisation view the issue, and in the case of informal contacts they say that the Danish solution would be good to investigate also in Sweden. We have also said this at European level. The only one who does not seem to be acting on the matter is the Council of State. It cannot be regarded as capable of saying that we are following developments closely. This does not help the family of children in Hofors, who had rolled up SEK 25 000 for their dream trip, Madam President, and who are waiting for a refund to do something else with their children. So the question is again: what is the government doing? What measures does the Government intend to take to help the family of children in Hofors?
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-47	Madam President, I would like The government seems to want to wave away the issue of bankruptcies and say that it is a nutritional issue and not a consumer issue. Actually, I'm amazed at that answer. I would say that the most important thing in maintaining good consumer protection, Madam President, is also to minimise the number of bankruptcies. If the travel agency goes bankrupt when you stand there with a voucher, you are completely unprotected. There is a complete lack of consumer protection. It is also a question of the future from a consumer perspective: Do we want Swedish consumers to be able to book travel through Swedish travel agencies according to Swedish rules, or should we have to rely on foreign travel agencies? The travel industry itself has proposed the creation of a travel guarantee fund and has shown constructively that a small fee for each trip could eventually make the fund self-financed. This would make affected consumers harmless, but it would also make people confidently dare to book new trips in the future. The question is as much about the future as about the approximately 1 million travellers who are currently out of money, because there is no future in the travel industry, nor will this million passengers get their money back. On two separate occasions, the January parties rejected initiatives in the Committee on Civil Liberties to investigate the design of such a fund. My question to Minister Lena Micko therefore remains: What is the government's proposal to strengthen consumer protection and save Swedish jobs and Swedish travel agencies?
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-51	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that I am above the insinuations that come from Lars Beckman's side. That is how it is – and I think most people in our country actually see it – that if it is something that the government has taken seriously, it is the pandemic, but given all the efforts we make in different ways, both in health care and in the economy. It is clear that there will always be more to be desired, but I am convinced that the efforts we make to get people into jobs and to enable companies in our country to survive and grow are of great importance to the family of children in Hofors. The same applies to the existence of a functioning welfare system. Then, of course, there are always different efforts to consider. What's the most effective effect? I have great respect for the fact that we have different interests there. For me, as Minister of Consumer Affairs, it is of great importance that we ensure that we have the enhanced consumer protection we have in our country, but I do not think anyone could have imagined that the pandemic would go this way. As a result, new situations arise. The legislation is clear here, but David Josefsson was into this with what then happens to the travel industry and companies. We have a strong business in our country. We have a lot of tour operators, unlike the other Nordic countries. We hope that these organizers will continue to operate and develop, but of course they are going through a crisis. There will always be a discussion about how much the state should go in and give to different industries, whether one industry is more important than the other and so on. I have great respect for that. So far, we have chosen to say that we are sticking to the solution that exists with the individual guarantees and that we then have the general support for companies. If you want to change that and have a completely different system, it can be easy to say: Yes, we do that right away! But it is also the case that it has just been launched. Then you can think about what you need to add.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-54	Madam President, I would like I note that the Government does not contradict me in that it is the Green Party that is blocking the issue. It is not entirely unthinkable that this is the case, because it is air travel and travel. I guess that's the height of evil for an environmental party. My interpellation is therefore about what measures the Government intends to take to ensure that the approximately 1 million consumers who have bought trips will get their money paid back. On two occasions the Minister has now referred to the possibility of going to Arn. Yes, many consumers have done so, and they have been right. According to Arn, they're going to get their money back. The problem, as David Josefsson has highlighted in the debate, is that travel agencies do not have money – and everyone knows why. Reality always beats rhetoric, will and other things. The reality is that 1 million consumers are out of business with around 6 billion. That family of children in Hofors who has saved 25 000 SEK for their dream trip is therefore completely without consumer protection. They can report the travel agency to Arn as much as they want, and they'll be right- but they won't get any money back. That's what it's all about. As the Minister for Consumer Affairs says, there are several ministers involved in this matter. Nevertheless, it requires the ministers to talk together and do something. Six months later, you cannot continue to say in your answers that you are following developments closely. It is not even said that the government is going to do anything; it is said that it is following developments closely. I believe that the millions of consumers who have paid for the trips actually expect the government to do something. It could be an initiative to investigate, to look at the Danish model or something else that means that travel agents do not continue to go bankrupt – which means that each individual consumer sees their money literally flying away.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-57	Madam President, I would like I represent the entire government, both the Social Democrats and the Green Party. When it comes to the high level of consumer protection we have, I stand by the view that we do. Then, of course, it has been and is extremely tough for both people and companies in the crisis we are going through with the pandemic that is going on. As far as consumer issues are concerned, and in particular the possibility of being reimbursed for missing journeys under the Travel Guarantee Act, it is the case that the Swedish Consumer Agency is in charge of this. They are closely following up on what it looks like now. When I say that we are following this, one can choose to interpret it in different ways. You can interpret what Lars Beckman does, that is, nothing is done. I sit with the knowledge interpret it as that we work very actively to see what we further need to do. There is every reason to see what we can do together in our country, both consumer movements and companies in different industries. This cannot be the sole responsibility of the State either.
i-JmdYw7s1ArySAwtmrSaJkq	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth, Minister Peter Eriksson, Minister Anna Hallberg and Minister Lena Micko. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-60	Madam President, I would like I am addressing Peter Eriksson, the Minister for Development, and I intend to raise the issue of the migration circus initiated by the government. There have been extensive tours around Sida's selection of new premises, and for a few years it has obviously been a priority for the aid authority with its responsibility for billions of taxpayers' money. First it was Botkyrka in Stockholm County that was the intended place instead of today at Gärdet in central Stockholm. This is something that Minister Eriksson has confirmed to me on an earlier written question. But now it turns out that already in October 2018, Sida had negotiated with the world's largest property advisory company, Cushman & Wakefield, about vacant premises in the bank SEB's former premises in Bankhus 90 in Sundbyberg – also in Stockholm County. Now they seem to end up there in former bank premises.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-63	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. For some years, the government has moved some authorities from the City of Stockholm to the rest of the country. This has contributed to an increased state presence in a number of municipalities and other parts of the country. I think it has been an important initiative. I think you should see the Sida project in that perspective. At first the idea was that Sida was going to Botkyrka, but it turned out that it was difficult to find suitable premises at good prices so that taxpayers' interests were taken care of. Now it has happened in Sundbyberg, and I think it looks like a good solution at lower costs, which means that we can also use a larger share of the money for aid.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-66	Madam President, I would like I have several colleagues in this House who do not come from Stockholm. I believe that most of us do not see Sundbyberg, Gärdet and Botkyrka as the whole country. However, I will come back to the question raised by the Minister for Development at the end. How much is it supposed to save taxpayers' money on the transfer of government?
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-68	Madam President, I would like It is quite essential to also ensure that the Stockholm region operates and has a state presence. It is not just a matter of the City of Stockholm. It makes a difference if we place authorities outside Stockholm City in the region. It is a bit difficult to answer the question exactly before there are any contracts written. You'll have to wait for the answer.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-70	Madam President, I would like Of those who lack Swedish citizenship and who are convicted of rape in Sweden, only 20 per cent are expelled. The other 80 percent stay in Sweden. Many of these people are committing new serious crimes. 19-year-old Tommie Lindh was murdered earlier this year when he tried to protect his friend from being raped. The murderer is a 23-year-old man from Sudan in Africa who has been convicted of several sexual crimes in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Why does the government allow 80 percent of all foreign citizens convicted of rape in Sweden to stay here?
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-72	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is extremely important that those who commit crimes should be convicted, prosecuted and put in prison for the protection of victims and others. However, there are also rules that say that we cannot refer people back to countries where they risk, for example, the death penalty or torture. Sweden has worked for a long time to negotiate conditions for countries to take back people who have committed crimes, but that is not always possible. For a long number of years, more stringent legislation has been introduced, not least in the case of sexual offences. Among other things, we have pushed through a law of consent, which provides increased protection and support for women who say no. We are strengthening the protection of victims, and there will be tougher penalties for those who commit sexual abuse.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-74	Madam President, I would like The government talks a lot about what has been done, but the figures actually speak clearly. 80% is not expelled. We believe that everyone who comes to our country and commits serious crimes should be expelled. We should not have other countries' murderers and rapists living in our country. In fact, I am absolutely convinced that virtually everyone agrees on this, except perhaps the government itself. Let me turn the question around. We believe that the number of rapists who can stay should be 0%. What does the government think that figure should be?
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-77	Madam President, I would like We believe that Sweden, like countries all over the world, should comply with international conventions, not refer people back to countries where they risk the death penalty or torture. It has been a view that both this government and previous governments have considered entirely reasonable for a long time in Sweden. One should not arbitrarily adopt statements based on inappropriate grounds, but actually follow closely international conventions and thus ensure that these people are detained in Sweden.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-78	Madam President, I would like We are building a lot of new infrastructure in the form of roads and railways today, but too much broadband and new electricity and power lines are also planned in many parts of the country. All of this is of course very important for society to work. In all these constructions, this means that a lot of agricultural land or forest land is used. This will also result in major infringements of the property rights and of the private landowner. There is an increased requirement to use as low-ground technology as possible when building new power and electricity lines, for example. To pool as much infrastructure as possible in order to use as little land as possible is something that should be used more and better around the country. There is also a food strategy that says that we will produce more food in Sweden. My question is therefore to Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth: How do the government and its authorities work to minimise intrusion, for example by pooling as much infrastructure as possible so that as little land as possible is used?
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-82	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Larsson, for a very good question! That is quite right – we are faced with a situation in which we are already making significant infrastructure investments in the country, both in rail and in road, with the current national plan. In the future, we will revise the national plan and put an infrastructure bill on Parliament's table, which I imagine will include even more efforts to keep the country together and modernise the infrastructure, but also to ensure that we meet the climate challenge. Then the demands for increased co-planning will become increasingly important. We have recently commissioned the county administrative boards and the Swedish Transport Administration to report on how to make the planning process both faster and more efficient. I think that is absolutely necessary. You should have as good co-planning as possible. But it will – and I would like to be honest with it – become target conflicts when the common need of society to get the fastest route or the best route sometimes means that we have to pay land compensation to farmers who stand with productive forest land.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-85	Madam President, I would like I am nevertheless pleased that the Government has taken these initiatives towards, among other things, the county administrative boards and the Finnish Transport Administration. This is exactly what we're saying. We are planning too much, we are facing major investments and we have many wordings in the January agreement on infrastructure and so on. There are also very large investments in electricity and power lines around the country. This is really just a call to the government to continue and push to co-operate even more. I look forward to our working together on this.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-88	Madam President, I would like I share that view. In particular, it is important that the planning process has well-functioning consultations with everything from municipalities to local organisations, communities and others. That process is extremely important, and the times when it has not worked are often because communication has not been completed in good time. We shall both facilitate the planning process and have a well-functioning communication but, at the same time, be honest and say that sometimes there will be goal conflicts where society's interests take precedence.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-90	Madam President, I would like Our regional railway lines are in dire need of rehabilitation, as the government and the Swedish Transport Administration have focused unilaterally on the busiest routes. Some of the regional railways that need renovation urgently are Kinnekullebanan, Lysekilsbanan, Bohusbanan, Stångådalsbanan between Kalmar and Linköping and Tjustbanan between Västervik and Linköping. Regarding the last two, Stångådalsbanan and Tjustbanan, all parties in Region Kalmar have made a request for an urgent upgrading of these paths to the Swedish Transport Administration and the Government. I see that there would be great benefits to climate and society in accepting such a petition. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure whether he has taken note of it, what he thinks of it, and whether he intends to give more space to the regional railways in the future infrastructure planning.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-93	Madam President, I would like I certainly share Jens Holm's view that investment in the rail system is important. We make the biggest investment ever in the railway in Sweden. We are renovating and renovating – we are making a 47% increase in railway maintenance – and at the same time building new ones. Spadtag is being taken for Norrbotniabanan, the great, fantastic railway project that was stopped by the alliance government in 2006 but is now getting renewed momentum. How important would it have been for Sweden if it had been built today with Northvolt's establishment and the possibility of labour market commuting? Within the framework of the process of an infrastructure proposal and a national plan, we will have to consider how we can invest in additional important railway parts – even in the small-scale railway network, be so safe – but also on new main roads for Sweden.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-96	Madam President, I would like One of my questions was whether the Minister has taken note of the request from all parties in Region Kalmar. I have a suggestion for the Minister: why not borrow the money for the high-speed rails? Borrow SEK 200 – 250 billion, put that money in a separate project organization and build high-speed roads quickly! Then we will have money left to invest in railways throughout the country, such as the regional railways.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-98	Madam President, I would like It's never free to borrow. Loans must also be paid. I think the most important thing in this case is that we have sufficient resources to invest both in new main roads and on railways throughout the country. We must not end up in a situation where we put different objects against each other, but the whole country must be connected. This applies to the current national plan, and it will apply in the future. I have noticed that Kalmar is very keen on the course. I hope that the friends in Östergötland are, too, because it is an important part of the enlargement of the labour market.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-101	Madam President, I would like Last week, together with the January parties, the government presented its budget, which according to their own statements is historically large. You can sign that in some sense. It is a very large budget – SEK 105 billion is the scope for reform. Within this space of reform, the government and the January parties could not shake up 50 million, which was what the Prosecutor's Office requested. My question today is therefore: did the government and the January parties forget about the Prosecution Authority, or did they simply ignore the Prosecution Authority's request?
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-103	Madam President, I would like It is true that it is a historic budget. In a situation where we have a pandemic going on, it has been important to be able to make major investments to provide resources to health care, to care for the elderly and not least to all the companies affected by the pandemic through various support efforts but also to do so carefully in a way that does not undermine public finances – some party wanted to add 100 billion a month – but is responsible. In recent years, the Prosecution Authority has received real contributions, which mean that in some sense it has received more resources than it has requested. Now we have an effective justice system and a police officer who has more resources than ever. This leads to more convictions. Of course, we will be following developments in the resources for the prosecution.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-106	Madam President, I would like It is not enough to follow developments. There is a need for action here. Of the contributions made in recent years and which the government often highlights, most are actually investments based on the alliance budget that went through 2015 and the M-KD budget that went through 2019. In fact, the government pulled down on the Prosecution Authority in 2017. The efforts back in time can be thanked to the KD for. Now the Liberals and even the Center Party have opened up an amending budget. Doesn't that indicate you did the wrong thing?
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-109	Madam President, I would like This indicates, above all, that we are a government that takes responsibility for the country's economy but is also making a real effort to safeguard health care, care for the elderly and all the jobs and businesses that are threatened in the pandemic and the economic crisis that follows and to be able to prioritise everything from security systems to other parts of society. In that trial, of course, additional resources for the prosecution should also be considered.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-111	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Hallberg. I am deeply concerned, Madam President. The government has failed in its dialogue with our Nordic neighbours. I'm a Heater, but I don't know if the border is open or not anymore. Trade has been affected. Social life has been affected. Not least, Nordic cooperation has been affected. The vision for the Nordic region is that we will be the world's most integrated region. Now it feels like we've gone back 50 years, not during wartime, but during peacetime. I also receive alarming signals that the Covid-19 has given the countries cause to devote themselves. Maintaining Swedish border trade is of course not a Norwegian core value, but the risk seems obvious that the pandemic is allowed to cause the clock to turn back many years. My question is what plan the government has to counteract this and once again strengthen Nordic cooperation.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-115	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. The government has not failed to influence the other Nordic countries to make their national decisions in this respect. They must, of course, have the national mandate to decide on border issues. What we and, above all, as Nordic ministers, have done in recent months is that we have been incredibly active in trying to create dialogue and understanding, but also to see what it means for Nordic cooperation in the short term and the long term to close the borders in the way they are now doing. Sweden and the Swedish Government have chosen to have open borders. We have argued strongly that this is how we want to see the Nordic countries. Then the Nordic countries, especially Norway, have taken decisions that open and close the borders every two weeks. We have been very critical of this and pointed it out. I was in Oslo myself the last time yesterday and said that this is not sustainable in the long term. So we have really tried to influence. Now it is said that we have failed to influence the other governments in their decision-making. I'd like to say that's not where we're supposed to be either. But, of course, we will try to influence.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-119	Madam President, I would like Nordic cooperation is based on solidarity, coordination and cooperation between the countries. This is particularly true in times of crisis, when cooperation is most needed. I think that right now we are very far from the vision we have set up together. I believe that the government and the other Nordic governments have quite a lot of work ahead of them in restoring confidence. At least we warmers are waiting for a constructive plan.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-121	Madam President, I would like I fully share the view that we are further from that vision today than we were six months ago. Sweden has taken the most active role in trying to dissolve the knots and ensure that the border can be opened as quickly as possible – not least for economic reasons, but also for social reasons and in terms of relations between our citizens. We are therefore pushing the issue very hard on Sweden's side. It is one of the issues that is at the top of my agenda as Minister for the Nordic Region. I am also looking forward to further discussion, because we need to do this together.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-124	Madam President, I would like I want to ask my question to Minister Lena Micko. The pandemic has hit Sweden hard. Welfare around the country – care, school and, not least, care for the elderly – has been tried hard. The staff have been working for many and long hours. The rapid economic downturn is also reflected in the tax revenue of municipalities and regions, which risks jeopardising their ability to offer good welfare to our citizens. That is why the historic contributions now proposed in the budget proposal are crucial. I would like to ask the Minister for Civil Affairs: what are the most important investments in the budget, not only for this year, but also for the coming years?
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-127	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Eva Lindh, for a very important question! This budget certainly contains great, historic efforts. It's about health care, care for the elderly and school. It is important that this is visible throughout our country. I believe that it has a great deal of support for the population and also, of course, for the employees of municipalities and regions. The pandemic has had major consequences, but we also saw the great needs before. Above all, it is important that municipalities and regions fundamentally prioritise a great deal of these resources themselves, but they should go to welfare. Then there are also some targeted efforts. Overall, I believe that this is very important for us to manage a good welfare forward.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-130	Madam President, I would like This is certainly welcome and important efforts. For those of us who are passionate about care for the elderly, it sounds good with the targeted investment in care for the elderly. But I wonder how the Elderly Care Lift will strengthen the quality of care for the elderly?
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-131	Madam President, I would like This is an initiative that has already begun in the country and is now being further strengthened. It is based on the agreement of employers and trade unions, and then the state is involved as a party and takes large costs. This is very conscious when we see the need to strengthen a large part of the staff's recruitment and training conditions. The state will then pay for training on paid working hours; it will pay for nurses and carers. This means, I think, an enormous amount for us to get the lift in care for the elderly.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-133	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Eneroth about road traffic safety and the increasingly harsh opinions of the Swedish Transport Administration regarding applications for competition and road showcasing. This year, of course, the situation has been different because of Corona, and many races have been cancelled. But now planned for the next season, and 400,000 road cyclists need new training targets. For many bike athletes, participation in cycling races is also an important part of sports practice itself. The most famous is the gigantic Vätternrundan, but most races are arranged by small associations, entirely with nonprofit forces, and have maybe 100, 150 or 200 participants. How do you see that exercise runs that have been conducted for 30, 40 or sometimes close to 50 years and are completely non-profit-making now may not be possible because the Swedish Transport Administration places such strict demands on road safety?
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-136	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Hansén, for a very good question! I'm a biker myself and think that not least Vätternrundan is a fantastic race, as well as many other races organized by non-profit forces with a strong commitment to promoting cycling. It is clear that the Finnish Transport Administration also has a mission to promote this and to facilitate the conduct of such competitions by civil society. I can have respect – you should have it – for us to impose specific restrictions during a pandemic; I think we all do. I also have respect for road safety. It is important to take it into account so as not to endanger other road users or the exercisers themselves. I want us to see improved collaboration between the Swedish Transport Administration and civil society precisely because it is so incredibly important to take advantage of the power and commitment that exists not least in Cykelsverige.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-139	Madam President, I would like Trafikverket is one of the heaviest consultation bodies, but it is the county administrative board in the county where the race starts to make decisions. In Örebro County, from which I come, Vänern Runt was granted permission with the condition to change laps on the race before the 50th anniversary to reduce the number of left turns. This is, of course, a road safety issue. It turns out that you can decrease from 41 to 38 left turns. This is a race of 600 miles over three days. The County Administrative Board only handles complete applications. Is it to Trafikverket they're going to turn to?
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-141	Madam President, I would like I like left turns, I'll admit it. But I think it's good to swing in both directions sometimes. I want it to be as good an application as possible and good collaboration between Trafikverket and the County Administrative Board, but it is important to listen to civil society. These are nonprofit forces working on weekends and nights to organize a race. I find that extremely urgent. I would like to take this opportunity to give this signal here today, but I am also, of course, following this up in my dialogue with the Finnish Transport Administration.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-142	Madam President, I would like I address my question to the Secretary of State. Yesterday came the announcement that Sida's head office will move to Sundbyberg. As my colleague, Mr Wallmark, mentioned, there have been many trips around the move, and it is now clear that the government's decision to relocate the agency from the current premises was not well thought out. There are many questions. What has been the cost of the move of Sida's head office, Sweden's probably most expensive change of address, been so far, and what will the end note land on? Peter Eriksson justifies the decision to relocate Sida's headquarters with the fact that state presence throughout the country is a question of legitimacy. Let me point out that the government's priority of spending tax money is undoubtedly also a question of legitimacy. Does the Minister of Civil Affairs think it is a reasonable priority to spend millions on moving Sida's headquarters 17 kilometres?
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-146	Madam President, I would like Peter Eriksson has previously answered the question about costs and said that this is something we follow. But I want to say that the government's policy is that we want authorities to be present throughout the country and move away from Stockholm's inner city. That's what this is about. It is a socio-economic issue that is important for us to have growth and jobs everywhere in our country. It is also about vulnerable districts outside the inner city of Stockholm. That is the answer that is important in terms of the responsibility and role of the state in this. Sida's move will of course also follow very closely.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-148	Madam President, I would like The Finnish Immigration Service's July 2020 forecast is concerned about the number of detention places. The money is not enough, and the assessment is that you will have to reduce the number of detention places from today's 520 to 450 unless the government in the budget bill gives feedback on how to resolve this precarious situation. What, then, is the feedback in the budget bill? Well, the government does not reconnect at all and does not allocate a single crown extra. Madam President, I would like These places are needed. There's 100 percent occupancy on them. Persons who do not have the right to be in the country are released due to lack of space. I would therefore like to ask Minister Eneroth why the government intends to reduce detention places.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-151	Madam President, I would like One should probably remind Mr Andersson that we are in the midst of a pandemic. We are in a situation where we have significant challenges in healthcare to take care of people who are sick. We need to provide resources to care for the elderly and to municipalities and regions to maintain public transport and to ensure that we save jobs and businesses. We are in the midst of a major international crisis. In this situation, we are pooling our energies with a budget of over 105 billion extra. It is clear that those resources must be allocated as much as possible, and there is of course a continuous dialogue also between the Ministry of Justice and the Migration Agency on how to deal with the issue of detention places, be so sure!
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-153	Madam President, I would like Recently, it has been revealed how leading people in Islamic Relief have made abominable anti-Semitic statements. At the same time, several researchers have shown clear links between Islamic Relief and the Muslim Brotherhood. This is evidenced by investigations in France and Germany. Despite this, Islamic Relief Sweden will also continue to hold the status of strategic humanitarian partner to Sida. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Development how he justifies a Swedish partnership with an organisation linked to anti-Semitism and Islamism and how this partnership rhymes with the government's declared promise to combat all forms of anti-Semitism.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-155	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Adaktusson, for the question! I think anti-Semitism is despicable. One should also be very clear about the demands that cooperation from the Swedish side with organisations that have anti-Semitic features should be discontinued. Islamic Relief is a British organization. It has previously seen such statements, but now those people have resigned, also from Islamic Relief's Swedish parts. Sida itself appoints its partners, and I know that thorough evaluations have been carried out. This has also been done on the British side. Islamic Relief is an organisation that has made very important contributions and is close to operations in places where humanitarian aid is really needed, and where you often work in a good way.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-159	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Hallberg. The Nordic countries are interdependent, not least in our border regions. Therefore, it has been painful to see how the consequences of the measures introduced in connection with the coronapndemine have penetrated directly into our Nordic cooperation. In my own county of Norrbotten, which borders both Norway and Finland, we have been hit very hard by border restrictions. The hospitality industry has suffered greatly, health care staff has been threatened, and a lot of people in Haparanda-Tornio have not been able to go to school, meet their relatives or come to work. This leaves a deep mark, and I am afraid that it will affect cooperation in the future. My question to the Government is: What lessons can we learn from this? You developed your agenda in the answer to a previous question. Is it possible to say anything more about the work in the future?
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-162	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Fredrik Lundh Sammeli, for the question! I'd like to get a little deeper. I answered Arman Teimouri's question earlier. There is no doubt that Nordic cooperation is now under great pressure. On the Swedish side, we are the government that has taken the most initiatives to get it back on track. We are in a marathon together, and we are concerned that we have not even now coordinated how to get out of the crisis together. That is precisely why I am now travelling to my Nordic colleagues in the Nordic capitals to have a dialogue that goes a little more deeply. When it comes to Finland and the border in Norrbotten, we have managed to get some work commuting started, which was not possible from the beginning, and the border municipalities have opened up a little. But now you shut down. I am convinced that we will solve this, but it will take time. We are in a bit of a hurry now, and that is why Sweden is so hard on the other countries. I think we're the most concerned right now. But as I said, we get to work together, you work in border regions and we work against governments and so on. Thank you for asking.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-167	Madam President, I would like Sweden's most important road is Europaväg 4, which runs between Haparanda and Helsingborg. It is 1 590 kilometres long and an incredibly important artery for both goods and people. On the entire stretch, E4 splits just one city, namely Örnsköldsvik, feeling not least for its hockey team Modo, I might add. There is a proposal for a bypass outside Örnsköldsvik. It has been investigated but is not included in the national plan. My question to Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth is therefore: Will Bypass Örnsköldsvik be included in the next national plan, including funding?
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-169	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Jörgen B erglund, who is now joining the ranks of Members from the region who are pointing this out! We also have a prime minister who eagerly cheers on the ice hockey team from there. However, he does not poke in the infrastructure investment. However, I am listening very carefully to all the requests right now for the work we are going to do on the forthcoming national plan. What I can say and which is very important in this context is, of course, that we put road safety high. It is important that the major European roads have a high level of road safety. This is evident not least from the 164 billion we are spending today on road maintenance and increased road safety on our road network. In view of the forthcoming revision of the national plan, I will of course also have a close and good dialogue with representatives of Västernorrland, not least on the E4 at Ö-vik. I can guarantee you that.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-172	Madam President, I would like The delegation against segregation recently granted over 900 000 SEK to a project to counteract segregation in Malmö. One of the associations that runs this project is Group 194 Malmö and is led by a man called Hussein Shobash. It is a man who openly boasts of his background in a terrorist organisation that has been guilty, among other things, of massacres of Israeli children and rocket shootings at Israel. In addition to this Group 194 Malmö in social media actively spreads anti-Semitic propaganda. They celebrate the murder of civilian Jews, and they spread images of children with automatic weapons and caricatures of Jewish men. All of this can be found out by a simple googling.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-175	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ludvig Aspling, for the question! I certainly do not share the view that the government is doing nothing. On regular occasions, there has been both a tightening of the allocation of resources and a careful review of the valuation bases of the organisations applying for state aid resources. I'll honestly admit I don't know Group 194. It is probably in the area of the Ministry of Justice, so I would suggest that the honourable Member put a more precise question to the responsible minister. But basically there should be no doubt that resources should go to organisations that stand up for democracy and respect for human rights at all levels and do not have racists in them.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-178	Madam President, I would like At the moment, work is under way to develop a new national plan for traffic and infrastructure at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Roads and railways have no intrinsic value in themselves, but it is about people and companies being able to live their lives and carry out their activities. People should be able to get to work, study and leisure activities. We will also contribute to a Sweden that holds together, increased housing construction and improved conditions for the business community. Last but not least, we will contribute to the transition to a fossil-free welfare country. It should be ecologically, socially and economically sustainable. Social sustainability includes, among other things, gender equality. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure: how can we work to ensure that the gender perspective and gender equality have a greater impact on the work on the new plan?
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-180	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Carina Ödbrink, for a very good question! We have added the starting points of socio-economics and gender equality to the Swedish Transport Administration's directives this time. It hasn't been there before. I myself have said that I think that there should be an end to a period in which we are building infrastructure solely on the basis of the needs of men and cars. I've got a lot of criticism for that. But, seriously, we can see throughout history how some infrastructure investments have been made. There has been a lack of equality and a gender perspective. I want it to be there. Women are in greater need than men of having a functioning public transport system. You often have shorter commuting distances because you have duplication – at home and at work. Then it must be there when we consider what important infrastructure investments we are going to make in the future. This is particularly true when it comes to perhaps expanding the labour market regions and creating better opportunities for work commuting. A gender perspective is incredibly important also in infrastructure planning.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-183	Madam President, I would like Recently, the National Intelligence Centre stated in a report that fraud involving personal assistance and labour immigration can be linked to organised crime as well as violent extremism. Today's legislation is completely toothless, and the scammers can continue to milk our welfare system at billions. We Moderates want to stop labour migration in the case of personal assistants, tear up confidentiality barriers between authorities and allow the Social Insurance Agency to make unannounced visits. What does the government intend to do to stop these frauds immediately?
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-185	Madam President, I would like The government is making considerable efforts to put an end to fraud, not least when it comes to cheating. This is the case whether it is the tax system or the welfare system. It's about taxpayers' money. It is about being careful about how we use the resources and that they can go where they are going – to care for the elderly and to health care. I can appreciate whether the Moderates are prepared to tighten up or discuss labour immigration at this stage. There has been a discussion in the past about what rules we should actually have. This occurred not least most recently in the Migration Committee. I think it is important that those who work in Sweden do so under fair conditions and are not exploited. They should be able to have reasonable rights and should therefore also be able to have protection when they are on the Swedish labour market. This is what we are working for in transport policy, which is my responsibility. This applies to the whole labour market. Society has a strong responsibility to ensure that people are protected from the exploitation of unscrupulous employers who press working conditions and wages.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-189	Madam President, I would like Last year, a decision was taken on the closure of herring fishing between May and August this year. This misguided decision has been directly devastating to the business community in primary Sölvesborg, Simrishamn and Karlskrona, who have tried unsuccessfully to bring about a meeting with the Minister for Rural Affairs. After the fishermen had lived on the hope of receiving compensation from the Fisheries Fund, the Minister for Rural Development today announced that no compensation will be paid for the four-month ban on herring fishing. My question is: what is the government's view of coastal small-scale fishing? Many other industries have received billions of subsidies. You must understand, too, that this is a direct blow to the identity of these municipalities. I cannot see it any other way than trying to phase out fishing by the back door.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-192	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Tobias Andersson, for the question. I'm an avid angler myself, and I like to eat fish. On this occasion, however, my knowledge about the stoppage of herring fishing is relatively limited. What I know, and what is important to remember, is that we obviously have a common interest in ensuring that we have well-functioning fishing quotas and good conditions for the fishing industry. However, as far as the more precise answer to the question is concerned, I would ask the honourable Member to address the responsible Minister of State, Mrs Jennie Nilsson.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-194	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Micko. In mid-September, the government announced the opening of new service offices in vulnerable suburbs. Of course, it is great that the state takes its responsibility and states that no one else controls areas within Sweden's borders and that at the same time it shows that it cares about all areas and the people who live there and gives them greater opportunities to reach our important authorities. Of course, we do not have the same problem picture – with criminal gangs and other things – in the northern parts of Sweden, but the presence of the state or what has often become absent is still a big problem. Will these efforts stand against the expansion of service offices in other parts of the country? Speaking of service offices, I would also like to know if you can say anything about the development of service offices that already exist in Storuman, Torsby, Åsele and Vansbro, for example.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-197	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an urgent question, Patrik Lundqvist! We have clearly indicated from the government that the expansion of the service offices applies to the whole country. In the latest budget proposal, it is about the extension continuing in vulnerable districts and the rest of the country. The addition we make to the investigation, to which we gave the directive a year ago and which will work until the end of the year, is also about the whole country – both vulnerable districts and the rest of the country. Then I would really like to emphasise the importance of finding different forms of cooperation in the country. This needs to take different forms. It is about taking into account the conditions where you live and where you are. I believe that it must be cooperation between the state and the municipalities, to a large extent.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-200	Madam President, I would like In the Swedish Security Service's 2019 Yearbook, it is possible to read about how the Chinese influence work towards Sweden is broadened and deepened. An example could be, according to Säpo, threatening economic measures if Sweden carries out activities that China dislikes. At the same time, China is an important trading partner for Sweden – trade can also be assumed to grow. Therefore, increased economic exchange risks further exposing us to Chinese influence. One can then use trade policy to get Sweden to reduce or mitigate its criticism of China, for example as regards human rights or the situation in Hong Kong.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-203	Madam President, I would like Thank you, David Josefsson, for a very important question! I am convinced that we can keep the balance between pointing out the values that we stand for and, at the same time, dealing with a large and important economy like China. It is extremely important to do both. Sweden has recently taken forward legislation to protect us from unwanted investments in Sweden. There is a connection to this. It is both a matter of dealing with China and of pointing out the values and shortcomings that we see in Chinese society. We must be able to trade with such a large economy, which is so important to our business community and our growth. As far as investments in Sweden are concerned, we will take and have already taken measures to protect ourselves from unwanted investments. It's going both ways. We in the government are fully aware of this balance, and we must keep it. There are two ways in which we have to cope here, and we have a very good strategy for that.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-207	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Tomas Eneroth a question. A new investigation into Bromma airport was recently published. The study is mainly based on economic starting points. One can imagine that it is a commissioned work from the government partner Miljöpartiet. Arlanda Airport needs to be expanded with a fourth runway. Today, SAS owns 70% of all landing and take-off permits, and other airlines from around the world share 30%. This is not sustainable in the future. If all flights are to leave Arlanda, as the investigation suggests, a fourth runway is necessary. Once the coronan folds, it is expected that the flight will increase. It is extremely important to have an airport in the Stockholm region that works for both the region and the rest of Sweden. When will the government put the cards on the Arlanda table?
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-211	Madam President, I would like It is true – aviation faces significant challenges. At the beginning of the pandemic, we received reports that all regular flights in the world were basically stationary. This says something about the great challenge that exists for the whole transport sector, not least for aviation, as has been seen in the economic conditions for regional and national airports. This is the reason why Swedavia has made the assessment that there are now no market conditions to operate also Bromma in a situation where it has responsibility for another nine state airports. We will of course analyse Swedavia's conclusions. I have been clear throughout this period that it is important that we ensure that we have socially important flights in place. This is one of the reasons why we have decided on public service obligations and that we have given additional resources to the regional airports, also to Swedavia. Sweden needs a flight, but the flight also needs to be changed. We will monitor this in the future.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-214	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to the Minister for Infrastructure. Swedavia airports received 3 billion state aid in June. Stockholm Skavsta got zero. The airport has been hit just as hard as Swedavia's airports during the Corona crisis but has not been given access to the aid. The airport is under threat, here and now, and also has an important social function, as the Minister mentioned earlier in relation to Arlanda, for ambulance flights, sea rescue and coastguards. But neither the Minister for Economic Affairs nor the Minister for Infrastructure has endeavoured to meet Nyköping municipality and representatives of Skavsta. While we are talking, Sweden's flight capacity is deteriorating significantly, which will be extremely negative for Swedish industry but also for everyone else who wants to travel abroad by air. We're not gonna stop flying, but we're gonna fly climate smart. So I get signals that Stockholm Skavsta Airport – the third largest airport in Sweden – is threatened with closure. What does the Minister of Infrastructure intend to do with this?
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-218	Madam President, I would like That's absolutely true. As I said to the previous questioner, it is an incredibly tough challenge for airports. When virtually all flights were down for a long time, the revenues of flights decreased. Short-term lay-offs or other measures have been used to maintain capacity. With the support of the Swedish Parliament, we in the Government have received additional resources in the form of state aid to regional airports, also to ensure fire and rescue flights. These resources have been based on the state aid system that we have for regional airports and which goes through the county plan allocation. This is the starting point for Skavsta, which is within two hours of travelling distance from Stockholm, does not get part of the resources.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-220	Madam President, I would like The E22 past Söderköping in Östergötland County is a very difficult stretch, and the Minister for Infrastructure knows this well. The stretch has been investigated for over 60 years, and now the municipality and Trafikverket have finally agreed on a good place where the bypass can be located. But then the county administrative board says no because there is hazelnok in the area. Hasselsnok is quite abundant there and in the areas around it, and the EU also classes this species as viable. It is clear that when infrastructure around the country is to be developed and new projects are to be put into service, we will always find environmental values, but somewhere we must have our new infrastructure. At this point, Söderköping has waited incredibly long and, especially during the summer months, has purely catastrophic traffic situations. How long do you have to wait? And how much are these things supposed to mean when we're going to have new infrastructure?
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-222	Madam President, I would like Thank you, John Widegren, for a very good question! It relates in part to a question that I had earlier, about productive agricultural land. I think everyone understands what a fantastic challenge it is to be the Minister for Infrastructure, because it is full of conflict, whether it be productive agricultural land, hazelnut, important biotopes or other protective measures. That is the difficult conflict that we have. Therefore, it has been important to find processes where we can urgently take a stand and pass such decisions so that important infrastructure investments do not take too long. I know how important and urgent it is with the E22 in Söderköping, and I also know how important it is with many other infrastructure investments in the country, to connect labour market regions or to find more climate-smart transport modes. That is why we are working intensively, not least in the run-up to the forthcoming national plan, to study the planning processes so that the trial can go even faster and the conflict of objectives can be resolved. We're supposed to respect the target conflicts, but we're supposed to be able to deal with them faster.
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-224	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Infrastructure. At the moment, speed reductions on roads E45, E14 and 87 are current, and the Government's mission to the Finnish Transport Agency thus has major negative consequences for the hinterland of Norrland. The roads in question are heavily trafficked by commuting, tourism and heavy timber transport. Unfortunately, these roads are in very poor condition due to neglected maintenance. Instead of making the efforts and investments that would be needed, the Finnish Transport Agency chooses to reduce the speed to 80 kilometres per hour on long sections in Jämtland County. This obviously has devastating consequences for a county like Jämtland. My question, therefore, is: is the Minister prepared to provide the means needed to secure the speed of the roads, which maintain both accessibility and attractiveness for the region?
i-c7ea9a450d8c07f8-227	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Saila Quicklund, for an important question! I fully understand those parts of the country where there may be longer commuting distances that get reduced speed. The reason is that we have been underinvesting in infrastructure for a long time. It was only when we took office and it became a Social Democratic led government in 2014 that we could choose to spend 100 billion more on infrastructure investments – 164 billion just on road maintenance. As late as now in the budget, we are adding 1.5 billion extra precisely to strengthen road maintenance for rural roads. What we opened up to in the national plan, precisely to increase road safety, was an opportunity for regions to co-finance, for example, the set of central rails so that they do not slow down speed but can maintain good speeds on commuting routes. This dialogue must continue, but we must also respect that we continue to work on zero vision and reduce mortality. In fact, last year was the year when we had the lowest number of people killed and injured in traffic ever. We shall be very proud of this.
