i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-2	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. This year's edition of the Commission's work programme is ambitious, to use a diplomatic expression. The new Commission clearly intends that the Union should have the same political direction as the previous one, that is to say, greater concentration of power in Brussels, more flagrant violations of the Union's constitution, and more and larger spending areas and authorities in an ever-swelling budget. Furthermore, the new Balkan Member States, whose problems of organised crime and corruption will soon have a greater impact on us, and a bureaucracy that is increasingly less willing to take into account the individual needs of individual Member States. The number of legislative cases, action plans and projects is usually too large to take up this kind of debate. So instead of keeping it all on an overall level, I thought I would highlight a couple of individual things that we consider to be of great importance to Sweden. Of course, the programme is also largely characterised by the extraordinary situation in which we find ourselves. The Commission is proposing a number of measures in the light of the covid-19 crisis which can only be considered extreme. It is important to remember that there is a big difference between acting quickly and resolutely and acting unconsidered and hasty. I am genuinely concerned that the Commission is about to do so later. Where we stand today, 13 million people have fallen ill in covid-19 in the EU. Over 300 000 people have lost their lives, and another unknown but potentially very large number of people will live with chronic suites of the infection. A further number of people have suffered as a result of over-burdening in health care in general. The economic effects of closures, disruptions in trade and consumption patterns, perhaps particularly in the travel and tourism industries, have affected millions. Hopefully, hopefully, Europe will soon have left the worst behind. At least I think we can see a light at the end of the tunnel in the form of a vaccine. There is an often quoted saying that you should never let a crisis go to waste. That proverb is attributed to a doctor who explained the meaning that a crisis in a patient's health can be a catalyst for changing behavioral patterns and lifestyles and thus for improvement. But there is another way of interpreting the same proverb, namely that a crisis may be an opportunity to push through political proposals that would normally have been impossible. I am afraid that the Commission has just adopted the latter interpretation of the proverb. While Member States are struggling to deal with the health crisis and a position in the economy, the forces that want to see further steps towards a federal superstate are moving forward their positions. An important step in this direction is, of course, joint borrowing of money. The Corona Fund, the Next Generation EU as it really is, means in practice that Sweden finances loans to a number of countries that have maxed out their own credits and that they do not think they can afford to borrow even more. The name Next Generation Europe is perhaps one, what to say, accidental cases of honesty. You plan to spend a lot of money now and send the bill to the next generation. The loan to be raised by the Union is approximately SEK 7 500 billion, i.e. the equivalent of the Swedish state's total expenditure for about seven and a half years. Madam President, I would like There are a number of obvious problems. The first thing I want to do is to remind the House of what the Treaty says, that is, the European Constitution, about precisely joint borrowing. Article 123 of the Statutes of the European Central Bank and the central banks of the Member States... shall be prohibited from giving Union institutions, bodies, offices, central authorities, regional, local or other authorities, other bodies governed by public law or public undertakings in the Member States the right to overdraft their accounts or to grant them other forms of credit. ..................................................... Furthermore, Article 125 provides that a Member State shall not be responsible for or assume obligations entered into by central, regional, local or other authorities, other bodies governed by public law or public undertakings of a Member State. So, no joint borrowing, no joint liability for debts. Madam President, I would like The absence of even a discussion about the fact that the entire corona fund is clearly contrary to the Treaty makes me genuinely concerned. But there is another flaw in the project, namely that the reason why Spain, Italy and a couple of other countries have ended up in such a difficult situation is not really the virus itself. The real reason is that those countries regularly choose populists, socialists or some stand-up comedians as their representatives, who have as their main policies to buy popularity with publicly funded benefits for borrowed money without considering that a buffer may then be needed on a rainy day. That pattern of behaviour will not change as long as the EU enters and finances the same political system that has caused the problems from the outset. To those who believe, for example, that the fund will save the economies of southern Europe and prevent mass unemployment, and so on, I just want to say: think about another lap. The instrument to ensure that countries implement the necessary reforms in a more responsible way in return for contributions is the so-called Semester. It is an instrument that has already been used for ten years, apparently without sufficient results. Madam President, I would like In other words, the chances of the crisis leading to a change in the lifestyle of the patient are very limited. The real reason for the fund is exactly the same as the Stability Mechanism and the Stability and Growth Pact established in the years following the 2008 financial crisis, namely to save euro cooperation – in short – and to use Swedish tax money for that purpose. I don't see that as a justification. As if this were not enough, another part of the deal is that the loans should be secured by means of what is a little fixed-up called own resources or EU taxes. We will see a European plastic tax in 2021, a corporation tax is planned for the following year and then an international transaction tax that is likely to be effective in moving companies from the EU to the UK. I am proud to belong to a party in this House that has had enough sense and backbone to dare to stand up to the Union on this issue, but at the same time I am ashamed that so many parties have refused to have their voters as their first interest and say no to the Corona Fund. Let me move on to legislative activity. There are a large number of proposals in the pipeline. Some of them are quite good, for example, an increased responsibility for human rights in global value chains. That is something we support. However, there are also a lot of less thought-out proposals, such as compulsory quotas for company boards, the taxonomy regulation for energy law, which means that hydropower is suddenly no longer sustainable – as if the water was running out – and interference with Member States' health and safety regulations. There are two proposals that I think will have more influence over Sweden than the others. It is the proposal on statutory minimum wages and the Migration Pact. The proposal on minimum wages poses a direct and serious threat to the Swedish model of wage setting. The first thing I would like to remind the House on this issue is once again what the European Constitution says about the competence of the Union in this area. Article 153 of the Treaty provides for certain rights for the Union to act in the field of employment, but paragraph 5 contains a certain limitation which I think is quite clear: ..................................................... There can therefore be no doubt that the Union has absolutely no right whatsoever to legislate on minimum wages. But it does, and strangely enough, no one in the Commission seems to regard it as a problem. With regard to the soft derogation proposed for Sweden, for example, there is a clear risk that it is no more than a chimare. We pointed this out at the first session of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, and it now seems to be confirmed, among other things, by the joint opinion of LO, PTK and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, which deals with the risks of these legislative acts. The best thing we can hope for is for the directive to be withdrawn in its entirety or, in the alternative, for Sweden to have a stronger, explicit and legally unambiguous derogation from the whole act. However, unless it is expressly stated that the directive must not be applied in any part to the Kingdom of Sweden, we expect all 21 MEPs to vote 'no' and the government to state clearly and publicly that this is a red line and that it is prepared to use all possible means to stop the proposal. The problem, however, is that the directive was created on the initiative of Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, who himself proposed EU legislation on wage setting with the declaration on the so-called social pillar adopted in Gothenburg in 2017. The fact that the same government then said it wanted to fight against the directive has lost a great deal of confidence. Madam President, I would like Moving on to the Migration Pact, the European asylum system is one of the most tragic children of mourning in the Union, both figuratively and literally. Conflicting interests have progressively built up a system that contains the most perverse incentives that can be envisaged at all. On the one hand, there is a legal right for everyone who comes to the EU – and who knows what story gives a positive asylum decision – to stay and live with a material standard of living far beyond what they could hope for in their home country, which drives people to Europe. On the other hand, the EU finances police officers, in a very loose sense, in North Africa and enters into agreements with an Islamic quasi-dictator in Turkey to stop the same migrants from coming here. In other words, what the Union is doing is holding up a purse in one hand to attract and a purse in the other to stop irregular migration. The parties that are inciting this deadly cat-and-mouse game, both in this House and in Europe's capitals, are a group of people who are responsible for financing the Islamic State, for the slave trade in Libya, for Sweden's so-called vulnerable areas becoming more and larger and for men, women and children at the bottom of the Mediterranean. Following the crisis in 2015, the Union has been trying to reform the asylum system since 2016. However, progress has been limited and a new effort is now being made with this work programme. The proposal that is now on the table, the so-called migration pact, certainly contains elements that we can support. But our overall assessment is that the proposal will not mean the breathing space that Sweden desperately needs. For example, the proposal repeals the Dublin Regulation. However, its rules on burden-sharing remain in practice, with an extended right of redress in a country where relatives can be found. This means, admittedly, that Greece, Italy and Spain will in theory remain the main responsibility for managing the reception of asylum in Europe. However, given how many people have or could have relatives in Sweden, it is likely that Sweden's disproportionate burden will remain. Just as now, Sweden will depend on the countries of southern Europe choosing to control their borders and to comply with the new rules instead of doing what was done in the past and simply sending the migrants north. Furthermore, the proposal provides for a broader family concept, a certain mandatory redistribution and an opportunity for the Union's authorities to decide how countries organise their reception. We regard this as totally unacceptable. Although it looks like the legislative process will be as difficult as it is long, it is not impossible for the proposal to end in deterioration for Sweden. It is the government's task to put a hard on the negotiation, but I can see that this government has hardly given us reason to hope too much. As I said, there is much more that I would like to raise in this debate. I have not even come to Albania and North Macedonia. But I've gone over time. I apologize for that and stay there.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-40	I would like to point out that the honourable Member exceeded her speaking time by more than 75%.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-41	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the European Commission's work programme in a so-called review report. This means that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, like all the other committees, has read and analysed the European Commission's work programme and then has a debate on its content. The debate itself and the decision taken by Parliament today will have no impact whatsoever on the very content of the European Commission's work programme, but is more a way for Parliament to create debate on EU and EU issues. The committee therefore proposes that the Parliament add the opinion to the file, i.e. that the matter be closed. At EU level, there are now proposals to increase supranationality by changing the forms of decision-making within the common foreign and security policy, called the Gusp, so that no one can understand what it is. Instead of all Member States having their own foreign policy, EU cooperation has in recent decades tried to agree on a common foreign policy for the EU. The result we have seen – it has become a watered-down and rather toothless European policy. One challenge that has been faced is that a single Member State out of the 27 has been able to stop joint wordings and opinions by being against. This has been particularly true of Hungary, but other countries have also used the tactic of being counter-versive towards the whole of the EU to get a specific opinion, often on some other political issue. The autumn example was Cyprus, which completely blocked a credible EU policy towards Belarus by hanging it up in the conflict with Turkey in the eastern Mediterranean. Although the Cypriots were right in substance, it was a bad behaviour on the part of Cyprus that has only punished the Belarussian people. They are the ones who have suffered the resistance of the Cypriots. How, then, is this problem to be addressed by the European Commission and the Swedish Government? Yes, by moving even more power to the EU and Brussels. It wants to introduce so-called qualified majority voting, that is to say, it is enough for two thirds of all countries to think equally in order for the EU to decide that this view applies to all EU countries. One might of course think that foreign policy, it is not something that individual Swedish citizens or for that matter the Swedish Parliament should be doing. However, the system of qualified majority voting may mean that Swedish foreign policy is not decided at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Stockholm or in the Swedish Parliament, but is determined in Brussels by other countries. All power is based on the people, and the parliament is the people's main representative. But what if Swedish foreign policy is not determined by those elected by the Swedish people? What does Sweden do on the day when, for example, the Visegrad countries, which are more and many times stronger than Sweden and our neighbouring Member States, decide on a foreign policy that does not conform to our values? All these questions would, of course, be answered by the supporters of the proposal, but so far I think that answers have been thin. In these coronatides, we have seen changes in the way the EU works. Ministers have more and more turned to informal video meetings, and today we had discussions for the forthcoming FAC– i.e. the monthly meeting of foreign ministers– which gave the feeling of being at a political science seminar rather than at a meeting where foreign ministers decided something. When you make decisions, you do so through something you call written consultation. For us in Parliament, this has had major consequences. Our transparency has been limited. The time we have to react to proposals has been tightened and reduced. Documents that are classified in practice become secret, because how can I read a document that is only in a safe in Stockholm when I am at home in Värmland? The EU's way of working before the pandemic was difficult for a democratic parliament to penetrate, but with the pandemic it has only gotten worse. It may be what Mr Aspling is talking about, that is, the European Union is using this crisis to make it even more difficult for us who want to be democrats. Here the government has a great responsibility for democracy. You cannot put it in the Swedish parliament and say that we should arrange for the problems that exist, but the government has a heavy responsibility for the democratic role of the Riksdag as well. Having said that, Madam President, I am in favour of our reservation on reasons No 2 and of our special opinion No 4.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-53	Madam President, I would like In the work programme, the Commission sets out its policy priorities for the coming year, as well as the legislative and other initiatives it intends to present. Overall, we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs welcome the focus of the work programme and the Commission's focus on exploiting the recovery from the effects of the coronapndemin to turn society and the economy into the demands of the future. Strengthening the EU's competitiveness also in the long term requires the EU to promote free trade, invest in education and research and take the lead in the development of artificial intelligence. A growing debate within the EU is on the division of competences between the Member States and the Union. It will be a matter for debate at the forthcoming conference on the future of Europe. Nevertheless, we believe that the focus of the conference should instead be to promote participation and civic support. We would like to stress the importance of the Commission's work on better regulation and evaluating the effectiveness of existing legislation as a means of reducing administrative burdens. New proposals must be based on sound impact assessments and on gender mainstreaming of all work. As regards the role of the EU in the world, we share the view that the EU should be a strong global player and defend a rule- and value-based multilateral world order. We welcome the Commission's priority of the Western Balkans and the Eastern Neighbourhood, as well as a continued focus on the Southern Neighbourhood and Africa. It is also important that the EU updates its approach to the Arctic. A majority of the committee has taken a position to look at the possibility of moving, under certain conditions and in certain areas, from unanimity to qualified majority voting in the common foreign and security policy. The need for this became clear in dealing with the Belarus crisis, where the necessary sanctions were too long blocked by a Member State which used the unanimity requirement to pursue a completely different issue. Another important step is that we in committee believe that the negotiations on a sanctions regime for serious human rights violations and violations should be given high priority. In the examination of the work programme, opinions were given by the Constitutional Committee, the Tax Committee, the Justice Committee, the Civil Committee, the Defence Committee, the Social Security Committee, the Social Affairs Committee, the Environment and Agriculture Committee and the Labour Market Committee. We support the disagreement that our representatives of the Social Democrats and the Green Party have expressed in the Civil Committee. In this context, they support the Commission's priority of the proposal for a gender balance in listed companies. One important reason is that it is clear that individual Member States' actions are not sufficient to exploit the opportunities for competitiveness and growth resulting from the good use of available skills, including women, on company boards. We also support the representatives of the Social Democrats and the Environment Party in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture. In this context, they argue that the EU Forest Strategy should be coordinated, coherent and equivalent to and of the same relevance as the EU Biodiversity Strategy and that this is the fundamental prerequisite for both strategies. With that, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal that the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Commission's action programme for 2021 be added to the document.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-60	Madam President, I would like What we see as perhaps most problematic in the Commission's work programme is the proposal on minimum wages, which seems to be a direct and real threat to the Swedish model of wage setting. The background to the proposal is the so-called social pillar, a political orientation document that was adopted in Gothenburg in 2017 on the initiative of Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, among others. Paragraph 6 of the Social Pillar Declaration contains an explicit reference to the issue of minimum wages, and the draft directive on minimum wages refers to the declaration in no less than eight places. Today, the government is saying that it wants to fight against this directive, which seems to be somewhat contradictory. What I think has happened is that the ego of the Prime Minister has made him simply sign something that he hoped would be historic without taking into account the consequences of the proposal. In a short interview after the summit, the Prime Minister claimed that it was a boast that the pillar would lead to increased supranationality, but this does not seem to be the case. I would therefore like to ask Annika Strandhäll if she can admit that this was a mistake in retrospect.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-63	Madam President, I would like To begin with, Ludvig Aspling is completely wrong when he believes that the starting point for the discussion on minimum wages we have today in the European Union is the social pillar of 2017. It's directly misleading. Ludvig Aspling may not know that when I became Swedish minister I had 15 years of background in the Swedish trade union movement – among other things as vice-chairman of one of the European internationals. Of those 15 years, I spent at least 10 years with trade union colleagues at European level discussing our conflicting views on minimum wages. It is an issue that has been discussed among EU countries for many, many years. It is now time to have a proposal for a directive. The Swedish government – not least the former Minister for Labour Ylva Johansson, but also the current Minister for Labour Eva Nordmark – has been crystal clear that the government in no way supports legislation on minimum wages in the EU, that we will do exactly everything in our power to ensure that we do not land there and that, if that happens, we want an exception for Sweden. We are defending the Swedish wage-setting model, and we will not accept the EU interfering in Swedish wage-setting.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-66	Madam President, I would like No, I have not studied Annika Strandhäll's career in detail, but I do not think it is relevant for the debate. Annika Strandhäll points out what they will do in the future and that they will fight against this. Well, that's all well and good, but my question wasn't about that. My question was whether the social pillar was a mistake in retrospect. Annika Strandhäll can say that there is no link between the pillar and the proposal on minimum wages, but the facts are nevertheless facts. In black and white it is stated in eight places in the draft directive that this is done with reference to the social pillar. There is no denying this. As I said in my first speech, paragraph 6 of the social pillar also contains an explicit reference to the issue of minimum wages. There's no denying the connection. Instead of ducking for the question, I would like Annika Strandhäll to try again. Was it a mistake to sign this declaration on the Wen?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-71	Madam President, I would like Let me be perfectly clear to Ludvig Aspling. I didn't ask you to study my CV. On the other hand, I referred to the fact that I have a long experience of the issue of minimum wages and the discussion on the issue that has preceded at least the last 10 to 15 years at different levels in the European Union. Of course, it does not have its origins in the social pillar, whether it is referred to or not, but it has a much longer background, as Mrs Aspling probably knows. The important thing in this is that the Swedish Government has been crystal clear in our communication with representatives of the European Commission and the European Union about the Swedish Government's position on this issue throughout the time we have been in government. We will not accept the EU interfering in Swedish wage formation. We defend the Swedish collective agreement model, and together with Swedish trade unions and representatives at all levels for many years we have been extremely clear on this point.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-74	Madam President, I would like In the eight minutes that I have here, I would like to comment on the views of the Moderates on the Commission's work programme. In the work programme, the Commission sets out its policy priorities for the coming year. The focus is on exploiting the recovery from the consequences of the coronapndemine to turn society and the economy into the demands of the future, where the EU will be a strong global player and defend a rule- and value-based multilateral world order. That does not mean that we lose sight of it. D that we must meet the Union's long-term challenges. Clearly, Europe's competitiveness must be strengthened. The USA and Asia are players who show very good advances in this area. We do this by promoting free trade, investing in education and research and taking the lead in the development of artificial intelligence. The Moderates welcome the fact that the committee has adopted the positions on increased focus on world trade and respect for the WTO acquis as an important factor for the EU's long-term competitiveness. Madam President, I would like Important tools to achieve this are investment in education and research, and the EU's fast-moving international competition embraces the opportunities – not only threats but opportunities – offered by the development of artificial intelligence. Furthermore, with regard to the Renewable Energy Directive, we believe that nuclear energy, in the same way as renewable energy, is a prerequisite for the necessary climate change and that the Commission's future work should be stepped up in order to achieve a fossil-free energy system in a cost-effective way, not to put different fossil-free energies against each other. Furthermore, we believe that the implementation of the social pillar should not be a priority part of the Commission's work programme. Rather, we see that the Commission needs to take a step backwards in the area of social policy and focus instead on the economic recovery following the Corona crisis. This is necessary because the social pillar leads to more supranationality in the area of social policy, and it is important to safeguard national decision-making powers in the areas of employment and social policy. Madam President, I would like At a time when completely different issues are on the agenda and almost paralyses the whole world, we must not forget that there is a time after the corona virus's ravages. Safeguarding and developing Europe's competitiveness is the best policy for the future, because without competitiveness, the other objectives of the Commission's work programme will only be empty hopes. A new focus on jobs, growth and investment is needed. It is necessary for us to afford to do what we want together. We also need a connected digital single market and a balanced and forward-looking trade policy that governs globalisation and does not become a trailer to it. We also need to have Europe as a stronger global player. Madam President, I would like What, then, are the global challenges facing a growing population in a world that lives ever longer? When I spoke a year and a half ago about the previous and then outgoing Commission's work programme, I mentioned six challenges for the future. These were then in effect, and they have become no less urgent now than they were a year and a half ago. The first is about food and food security. We will need more efficient production to feed more people and produce them on a smaller surface. In this context, we must at some point dare to lift the lid and tear the patch. The stubborn opposition to GMOs puts a paralysing hand over what will be one of our most important future challenges. The second area is health. Deficiencies and epidemics have been brutally supplemented by lifestyle diseases. The third area is communication. In a world that is constantly connected, there will continue to be a need to move physically. We can see that today when we have restrictions on moving physically. The ongoing pandemic has clearly demonstrated how important it is to be able to handle both physical and digital contact. Anyone who leaves behind the worst ravages of the pandemic with developed communication systems will have much to gain for the future. Madam President, I would like Furthermore, we have energy and security, which today are closest to being considered hygiene factors. But the most important thing is knowledge in order to make our ambitions a reality. Knowledge and education are the ingredients for development, for growth and thus for poverty reduction. We also need to prepare for the next lifestyle revolution, and it's called AI, artificial intelligence. Artificial intelligence today has the potential to change more than the internet has done, based on existing technologies. Digitalisation and artificial intelligence will be an absolutely necessary development for Sweden, the EU and the world to meet our welfare commitments. Research for ethically safe AI needs to be started right now, which is something the mission needs to take into account. Madam President, I would like The EU has accumulated increased importance and opportunities to work for peace, democracy, human rights, the importance of the rule of law, sustainable development, security and stability. All the countries of the Union have a responsibility to prepare themselves for future opportunities, but also to contribute jointly to the European Union's collective strength. The EU is no stronger than its weakest links. Therefore, the EU should work to contribute in its own development to the strengthening of its individual Member States in this area. In doing so, I urge the Parliament to add to the documents the report on the Commission's work programme.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-94	Madam President, I would like Of course, discussing the Commission's work programme at this stage is a task that we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs have. We could wish, Madam President, that we did not live in Corona time, because then there would certainly have been more in the Chamber and several committees involved in the debate. This is, of course, a whole that everyone in Parliament gets a share of, so that we can discuss and be early out when we prepare our views on EU issues. The work programme has also been discussed in the EU Board, where the different views of the parties have been expressed. It is a new Commission, which has had a tough start. Among other things, it took a long time for the Commission to arrive. Then it quickly ended up in a pandemic. Mr Covid has not been the best branch of the EU, if you will say so. We have seen and experienced the closure of borders, the suspension of trade and how what we thought would be an internal market have become a highly selective market for some time. However, in a situation like this when everyone starts to think about themselves, the EU has been there as an arena where they have met and experienced the need to find solutions. Of course, it is also an important picture to take with you. Without Europe, which had the key to resolving the closed borders and barriers to trade, we would not have come as far as we have done anyway. I think it is a picture to have on the retina when we discuss the EU forward. Protecting citizens and freedom is, of course, vital. It is part of the basis of the European Union. Developing a strong and powerful economic base is a call that is about our welfare and that we do it together. Building a climate neutral, green and fair Europe is an important mission that is on the European agenda and also on our agenda here in Sweden. Promoting Europe's interests and values in a global context is absolutely important. The guidelines of the current President of the Commission capture those elements. We in the Committee on Foreign Affairs can say that we have not focused on the whole, but we have focused on, above all, the role of the European Union in the world. That is our first focus from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. This does not mean that we do not see what has been brought forward from the other eight committees. Of course, we support the views expressed in those committees. A stronger Europe in the world is something that we hope we can contribute to, because it is about values. It is about human rights, it is about democracy and it is about getting a functioning judicial system in the countries beyond the EU. That mission is even more important today than it was ten years ago. Democracy is going backwards, the system is going backwards and human rights are backtracking in the world. If the EU cannot live up to its own proud expressions and be serious – whether it be Venezuela, Hong Kong, Belarus or other countries – we lose our voice. Then people lose hope in the world, hope also internally. It has been said earlier in the debate that the qualified majority that we want to see in certain matters in the Foreign Affairs Council is leading the wrong way. But, Madam President, when the right of veto is used in the bodies that we have, we see how it is blocking human rights, sometimes also peace and reconciliation. We usually talk here about abolishing the right of veto in the Security Council or at least finding ways to restrict it. Here we have the opportunity to restrict the right of veto on sanctions, on Magnitsky sanctions and on serious violations of human rights. Then the EU Foreign Affairs Council can and must be able to take decisions that are not kidnapped, sometimes by a completely different issue, as has also emerged in the debate on Belarus. So it is important to see that way as a road that we need to go. When we look at 2021, the pandemic, the management of the pandemic and the lessons learned from the pandemic are of course important. But recovery is also important, because it is about how we manage our economy and how we manage our jobs and entrepreneurship at home. We would have liked the recovery fund to have had a different structure. We pushed it clearly from the Swedish side. However, if the alternative was to say no to the possibility of recovering the economy is, of course, the path that we managed to push forward better. We see that there are major challenges here. We hope that we will be able to arrive, so that the fund is not used as a way of continuing on the Hungarian or Polish path towards increased repression, less rule of law and less freedom. The democratic lock to be applied to the use of the fund is therefore important. Madam President, I would like I could touch on many of the issues raised by the committees, which are on the table for 2021. We've been talking about migration issues. It is extremely important to get a new order in place there. We have the green issues and the recovery after the pandemic. That is, of course, extremely important. Finally, I would like to point out the position of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. We are behind a reservation there together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats. We still share this view, although we have not reserved ourselves in this opinion. I would also like to point out what the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture points out about the importance of ensuring that we do not receive a conventional import duty on the CO2 border mechanism. We should not devote ourselves to building walls, but we should devote ourselves to building good regulations, preferably multilateral ones. I support the committee's proposal in its opinion: that the opinion be added to the file.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-106	Madam President, I would like Kerstin Lundgren has been one of Parliament's warmest supporters of introducing a global EU sanctions regime, a so-called Magnitsky legislation or Magnitsky sanctions. Today, the government decides on this. I understand that it is a great victory for Kerstin Lundgren, because she has done a lot of work to get to that point. What are Magnitsky sanctions? One might say that this has its background in the Russian accountant Magnitsky, who was arrested and killed under a little mysterious circumstances. The Russian system simply ensured impunity for those responsible for his death. They were never convicted of the crime they had committed. This really started in the United States. The American who was in contact with the Russian accountant has pushed for legislation to condemn the people responsible for the auditor's death and punish them. The Commission's proposal introduces a freezing of assets and a travel ban. What I have not heard so much from Kerstin Lundgren about when it comes to Magnitsky legislation is about the rule of law. It is something that we have often seen burst. I will give three examples. In the wake of the eleventh of September, three Swedish Somalis had their assets frozen for about seven years. Some of them were forced to live on welfare benefits. They had a very difficult time getting redress, and when they were running legal proceedings, the Left Party even forced them to pay their own court costs. Another example is the Left Party sanctions against the International Criminal Court, the ICC, which is now investigating crimes committed by American soldiers in Afghanistan. The third case, about which I do not have much time to tell you, is the suppression of the Kurdish PKK, which has led to a peace process not being achieved in Kurdistan. I therefore wonder how Kerstin Lundgren views the rule of law in the Magnitsky Act.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-113	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for the question! Had we had a longer debate on these issues, Håkan Svenneling would surely also have heard about the issues of legal certainty. Of course, they are an important part of it. But following, for example, the trial against Magnitsky, where Magnitsky, who was already dead, was called in to form part of a legal process in Russia, gives a clear picture of a judicial system that does not work, where there are no conditions for a fair trial. In such situations, it is of course extremely important to have the possibility of imposing Magnitsky sanctions so that impunity cannot prevail. Strafdom is a path to conflict and something we must try to overcome. The ICC is something that we lift in other contexts. It is extremely important to strengthen the ICC and try to get several cases there. We need to develop legal certainty in the global environment too, so that we can have order. Whether it's in Left Party decisions or in other contexts, legal certainty is of course important. It may also be a matter of conditions to be able to have a process of criticising a decision in such cases. We have sanctions in place for example in the case of Belarus. We would like more sanctions, and I think it would be reasonable to also mark Magnitsky sanctions, which I and we would like to see included not only violations of human rights but also corruption, which is a scourge and which fattens systems that authoritarian leaders want to keep alive.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-116	Madam President, I would like I hope that Kerstin Lundgren, having succeeded in getting her beloved Magnitsky sanctions through, will shift her focus to the rule of law. I am concerned that these sanctions will mean that the people who are set up under a Magnitsky law will not have the opportunity for a legally secure process. In the rear-view mirror of history, we can see that organisations, companies and individuals have sometimes been placed on these lists a little too easily and not sufficiently legally secure. The motives for the people being there have not been clear, and they have ended up in lengthy processes. In some cases things have gone well in the end; other cases are still ongoing. I am very concerned about this. That concern cannot be quite contained today, because neither I nor Kerstin Lundgren have read what the actual conclusions of the European Commission look like. It's still a secret for a few more days. Hopefully we'll see about it next week. Nevertheless, the European Commission and Sweden have a responsibility to ensure that there is a great deal of legal certainty if they introduce this very clear person-oriented sanction regime against individuals. I think that it is very easy to become political in relation to these sanctions: to point out certain countries or certain types of people depending on where they are, without any common thread in the form of equivalent assessments. Kerstin Lundgren wants to introduce Magnitsky sanctions against Belarus. I understand that will. I think like this: In Belarus there are 59 people, I think, who are currently listed. We're talking about more. This is based on the sanction regime that the EU has against Belarus. Then perhaps it is foolish to start having different types of sanctioning regimes against the same countries. The problem is, for example, Russia, which we certainly have sanctions against, but where there are specific people responsible, for example, for the death of Magnitsky. There are also such examples around other countries in the world where we do not have sanction regimes.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-121	Madam President, I would like Legal certainty is something that builds the rule of law, and the EU stands for the principles of the rule of law. At least that's what we're fighting for. We do not really think that all countries are doing so today, and that is a challenge. But it is clear that regardless of whether it is under the current system of sanctions or under Magnitsky's legislation, the aspects of legal certainty are included. I have no idea that this is something that is being cheated in that part by the government or by the European Union. Why I think you should consider Magnitsky's sanctions in the case of Belarus, but also in other contexts is precisely because it is a global marker of sanctions. It is not just about Russia, it is about a global solution. It is also important to point out that this is an issue in which we try to interact with like-minded people. Here I see our Baltic neighbours, who have introduced such sanctions, as an important circle to also seek to strengthen. Their markers in the case of Belarus, we should do everything we can to build under and hold on and not undermine in any way. It would therefore be good if the EU could do as well as the Baltic States.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-124	Madam President, I would like As in so much of the political work these days, it is the spread of the Corona virus and the global pandemic that characterise the work programme of the European Commission for 2021. The spread of infection with which the world is struggling today is unparalleled. Personal tragedies and lamenting concerns are mixed with economic decline and pompous political leadership. Against this background, the Christian Democrats, unlike at least a few of the parties in this House, want to highlight the importance of international cooperation and the crucial importance of Europe. No country is able to deal with the current situation on its own. The way forward is more joint and responsible cooperation, cooperation capable of delivering solutions to real, cross-border problems, whether they are life-threatening viruses, climate change or organised crime. The citizens of our country and of the rest of Europe have the right to make demands for effective international cooperation, especially in times of crisis. Therefore, it does not hold to allow national self-interest and short-termism to govern decision-making. That is why political leadership is needed that is willing and able to live up to the Union's values of solidarity with the most vulnerable, even if they are beyond the borders of its own country. Madam President, I would like In its work programme, the Commission sets out the policy priorities for the coming year and the initiatives expected. The focus is on the pandemic and its effects, but also on the opportunities now available to accelerate the necessary changes and strengthen society's capacity for recovery and resistance to various forms of disruption. The driving force continues to be the Commission's overall aim of building a fairer, healthier, greener and more digital Europe. The measures concern both tackling the crisis and exploiting the recovery to transform society and the economy. Madam President, I would like In order to meet the Union's longer-term challenges, the Christian Democrats highlight the importance of strengthening Europe's competitiveness through more effective free trade and through investment in education, research and the development of artificial intelligence. On the major and important issue of the EU's role in the world, we share the committee's view that the Union should be a strong defender of human rights and a rule-based multilateral world order. We welcome the European Commission's priority of the Western Balkans and the Eastern Partnership as well as a continued focus on the Southern Neighbourhood and Africa. In view of the developments in Belarus and the slowness of the implementation of sanctions against the regime, it is important to draw conclusions in this regard for the future. In the defence of human rights, it is time to leave the unanimity requirement and move to qualified majority decision-making in the common foreign and security policy. Madam President, I would like We usually talk about politics being about values and human views. For the Christian Democrats, this means highlighting the importance of personal freedom, combined with social responsibility and solidarity with the most vulnerable, in other words the views that have been the basis of European cooperation for decades. This is of great importance, not least in relation to the outside world. Whether it be the war in Syria, the dictatorship in Iran, the development in Russia or the persecution of the world's Christians, the EU has an opportunity to make a difference. That is why the Christian Democrats are in favour of a Europe that speaks with one voice in foreign policy and which always prioritises human rights. Combining the vision of cooperation and reconciliation with the vigilance of subsidiarity is the specific mission of Christian democracy. There is no doubt that the European institutions need to be more aware, reminded and understanding of the limits to what the EU should and should do. Without this understanding, the foundations of the European idea are threatened, but also the peoples of the European Union. That is why we are raising the finger of caution in the ongoing debate on the so-called social pillar, but also on what is called own resources in European languages. In working towards a sustainable EU budget, EU tax and new charges are not the way forward. The EU's already significant budget provides scope for both savings and for important redistribution into the priority areas. Christian Democrat Konrad Adenauer has said that the fate of Europe is the destiny of every European state. Europe is free and independent states, but at the same time a cohesive entity. Safeguarding this and working towards it will be one of the major challenges of the important but also very uncertain time ahead. With this, I call for the committee's proposal to add the opinion to the file and refer to the specific opinion in which I support the dissenting views expressed by the Christian Democrats in other committees on the future programme of the European Commission.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-141	Madam President, I would like It takes only an hour by plane from Sweden to Minsk in Belarus. What is happening in Belarus right now should involve the whole of Europe. Unfortunately, it doesn't. There is a struggle for freedom in which people rise after decades of abuse of power, dictatorship, corruption and oppression. The European Union has been very successful over the years. After the southern European countries freed themselves from juntas and fascist regimes, they became members of European cooperation and were integrated and democratised. This has been very successful. After Communism collapsed as a social system in Eastern Europe, a number of former Soviet republics and satellite states became members of the European Union and were democratized. But Belarus never went that way. While Czechoslovakia, Poland, Hungary and other countries, which were part of the Soviet empire or satellite states, had a strong democracy movement and chose a new path after 1989, repression continued in Belarus. I think it is important that we see that our commitment to conflicts around the world should apply wherever countries are. But when it is our own neighbourhood, it is especially important that we also exist to help the people who protest, for those people who dream of freedom and for those people who in some cases also have to pay with their lives to breathe the same free and fresh air that we can here in Sweden. The Belarus issue is the most important challenge for the EU when it comes to democracy-building for the coming year and for a long time to come. We really must do everything to support the struggle for freedom there. It is clear that this work programme for the Commission, and indeed the entire functioning of the EU in terms of the preparedness and action of the institutions in terms of budget allocations and much else, is about dealing with the ongoing covid-19 pandemic. This also means mobilising all the strength and resources to cope with this pandemic. We in the Liberals are very clear in our support for the European Union and in our support for the deepening of European cooperation in several places. So to speak, we do not have the same spinal reflex to say no to the fact that the European Union, too, can stand firm, deepen cooperation and also be given new powers. We see and have seen a number of major crises and challenges. This applies to the financial crisis a number of years ago, to what was particularly affected Greece a number of years ago, to the climate crisis and to the migration crisis. Now we have the pandemic, which is both a health and economic crisis. In the past, there have been other major challenges that may vary a little in terms of the speed of progress, the extent to which they affect our societies and so on. But they have one thing in common, and that is that when one comes out at the other end of a major crisis such as the financial crisis or the migration crisis, new structures have been formed and new bodies created. And there are different types of initiatives that then become reality. These could be stability pacts, for example, in terms of the economy, and it could be a new migration legislation. In Sweden, after the 1990s crisis, for example, we received new regulations regarding budgetary discipline in the Riksdag and many other things. This means that if you are completely locked on to the fact that you must not mess with the relationship between the different levels of European cooperation, you end up in a situation where you are incapable of making decisions to deal with huge crises. We must realise that Sweden is not an isolated island, nor is it the European Union. However, the European Union is a cooperation between 27 Member States, and in order to make European cooperation stronger in the future and cope with the major challenges we face, there will also be a need for new thinking at the institutional level. I hope that the European Commission will initiate such investigations and deepen European cooperation in various ways. Madam President, we can take migration as an example of this. What does the European Union's migration policy mean? What happened in 2015 was that the legal acts determining the European Union's asylum and migration policy were broken down. It is not surprising to look at how they are constructed. After all, the whole idea of the Dublin Regulation is that the country in which a person puts down his or her big toe is responsible for the person's asylum application. This means, in practice, that if the European Union's regulatory framework is to be maintained, the very great responsibility for dealing with refugee crises in the southern European countries of the Mediterranean, especially Greece and also Italy, Spain and so on. But when the regulations broke down in the autumn of 2015, people searched along trodden paths north in Europe; they wanted to go to Germany, Denmark, Sweden and other countries. These are countries where the labour market is stronger, which have a better reputation, if you put it that way, in migratory circles and where there are large diasporas. This put a huge strain on us. The conclusion that we in the Liberals have drawn, and that many other parties have also drawn, is that we must take joint responsibility for solving such a challenge. Just as we need a joint responsibility in Sweden, where we say that it is reasonable for all municipalities to stand up for the reception of new arrivals and that some municipalities should not be able to evade that responsibility, we need to have a division of responsibilities in the European Union where those countries that do not want to receive a single cow today are actually also involved in taking responsibility. It is a very important issue, not only for the European Commission, but also for the Council of Ministers and for the national parliaments, to back through these changes in the area of migration. It does not necessarily have to happen exactly as proposed, but this must be threshed throughout the machinery so that we can have legislation that will enable the European Union to address these issues together. If we fail to do this, we will fatten further ultra-rights and populist gapheads who want to close the borders completely. That is certainly not a way forward. These debates will continue. But when I look out over Sweden, I am very happy that the banner of the European Union is still hanging here in Parliament. There were, I suppose, a number of parties who were even opposed to it being suspended in this House when it went on a number of years ago. Now the support for European cooperation is much broader and much more rooted in Sweden, both politically and with the Swedish public. This is something I welcome, but I would like there to be stronger support for deepening European cooperation in the direction that we in the Liberals are advocating.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-156	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 1, and we also support our specific opinion. It is a time of trial when the pandemic has taken off again, a time of anxiety, pain, sorrow and a great tiredness. It is also a trying time for many of the country's cultural entrepreneurs. The income of the cultural sector was stunning in March, and the form of trade bans that have affected the sector is still a reality. People are allowed to leave their homes when there is no financial support or waiting for information for many months. The silent year 2020 is a reminder of the importance of culture, both economically and socially. Culture and sport offer arenas where we can express ourselves, discuss, question, exult, laugh and cry. This is something deeply existential that we all need to feel good and be able to live a good life. The ecosystem of the cultural sector is a plethora of public funds and companies of various sizes and forms of association, which are now being torn apart. We live in an uncertain time, with contradictions growing in Sweden. Gang crime continues to increase, and innocent people's lives are at risk in the fight for dirty victories. Culture and sport have an absolute intrinsic value but can also counteract intolerance, prejudice and lies. Madam President, I would like The Moderates don't promise everything to everyone. We make a clear priority to make culture accessible to children and young people, especially in vulnerable environments. Cultural analysis report 2019 confirms that publicly funded culture belongs to groups where parents have a high level of education and income. Therefore, we Moderates want to transfer resources from culture and education that are primarily consumed by adults to initiatives for children and young people. The first steps were taken with the 2020 budget, and we will continue in 2021 along the same path. We give priority to children and young people, for whom books, music, theatre, sports and healthy adult role models are not obvious elements. We therefore reject the government's proposal for free admission for adults in state museums in favour of strengthening culture aimed primarily at children and young people. We strengthen Creative School, support for children's literature and the digitisation of libraries, sports packages in weak areas and financial support for outdoor organisations. Child and youth sport is an important part of our public health but also an essential bridge builder for social inclusion. People living in exclusion have lower health, shorter life expectancy and less experienced quality of life. We give priority to the fight against this. Sport is more than sport itself. In associations hundreds of thousands of children and young people are raised by voluntary leaders. These leaders expect children and young people to take responsibility, be on time, adapt to the club's values and function socially as team and clubmates. It is clear that sport can be considered the world's best crime prevention organisation. Madam President, I would like Over the last few years, peoples' education has received significant financial reinforcements as a result of the previous major reception of refugees, among other things, which is why we are now proposing a downward adjustment of the allocation. Instead, we want to use the released resources for our investments in children and young people. Folkbildning plays an important role in our democratic society, and it is with great concern that we are taking note of media reports on how tax money is misused in the name of popular education. Organisations receiving grants must, of course, stand up for democratic freedoms and rights and an equal approach. Therefore, control systems urgently need to be further developed and democratic conditions clarified in order for organisations to benefit from public financial support. After the change in relations between the Church of Sweden and the State in 2000, the State committed itself to co-finance the preservation of the church's cultural heritage. Each year the state contributes about a quarter of the maintenance through the church antiquarian compensation. Since 2009, this amounts to 460 million annually, and we therefore believe that an increase is now justified in order to preserve our ecclesiastical cultural heritage. Madam President, I would like Free culture is a key element in our young 100-year-old democracy. The struggle to protect democracy must never fade, and the right to equal value must never become mere placard politics. Democracy must be defended every day through education, accessible libraries and trust. When democracy is restricted, it is always the freedom of the media, religions and artists that is first restricted. The objectives of cultural policy, which were already established under the previous alliance government, indicate the direction the state wants to take in cultural policy. According to the objectives, culture should be a dynamic, challenging and untying force based on freedom of expression. Culture must therefore be protected from political clout, and the distance of an arm's length must always be a reality. Municipalities, regions and the national level should not go in and condition – that is, govern – the art and the free institutions, however well-pleasing these ambitions may be. The government should therefore review regulatory letters and government commissions in order to reduce the political governance of the content of art and culture. Culture and art have their own value, but they also give us tools to explore who we are as human beings and in what context we are. They are also an excellent path to social inclusion. Culture and education must never be reduced to just one interest within the narrow accounting framework that we call cultural policy. Culture in its broad sense concerns everyone and is a prerequisite for our entire Western democracy. Madam President, I would like Free arts are one of our most important means of safeguarding freedom of expression. We view with concern all kinds of radicalisation and extremism with anti-democratic pretences, whether religious or political. When we debate cultural policy, the discussion tends to narrow down into different extremes. Some believe that state aid should be cut substantially. Others want to steer culture politically based on balanced goals, one might think, such as integration and gender equality. But it may also be that one wants to govern from ideological viewpoints. This is all wrong. Culture should be free from political governance. It is only when it becomes an inclusive arena where all differences meet. State aid makes culture accessible, but the possibility of alternative funding needs to be highlighted and emphasised. Madam President, I would like We'll re-fill the arenas, scenes, parks, restaurants and cafes with conversations, cries, laughter and tears. There will be a stream of sound from Narnarladan in Sunne, Dramaten in Stockholm and the market in Jokkmokk. It is important that we learn lessons from the silent year 2020. Culture must never be reduced to a peripheral special interest or the extended arm of clouting politicians.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-178	Madam President, I would like Now that we are debating the Culture Committee's report 1, on the spending framework for culture, the media, religions and the various tribes and branches of civil society, we are doing so at a time that is already historic and unprecedented at the same time as we are in the midst of it. We are doing so in a field of expenditure that is particularly hard hit by the coronapndemin. Everything's on its butt, and nothing's right. The situation of Swedish culture and sport and civil society is extraordinary. The pandemic has taken its grip on the industry's players like an incurable cancer, and unfortunately the treatment has sprung. A regulatory framework that in many eyes has been illogical and poorly calibrated and has had poor accuracy has been a break across the cultural area, even in environments where events could be arranged more infectiously, while shopping centres, malls and public transport held large crowds of people. The spread of infection has been a fact. The pandemic and its consequences in the sense of the need for several special support and supplementary amending budgets have also underlined the need for a debate on the actual freedom of culture. Given that, in the event of major disruptions and long-term rigidity, the level of such freedom can rightly be called into question by state subsidies and emergency aid. How free is one in dependence on the hand that feeds you? Misunderstand me – we have agreed across party and block borders and demonstrated responsibility and generosity as we have both argued for and pushed for further additions in a difficult time. Something else would have been unthinkable. At the same time, I believe that we will have to have a more in-depth discussion on the vulnerability of the fact that much of the state expenditure we are debating today is so high in subsidy terms. The Swedish model – the cultural architecture model – is in its design constantly dependent on the care and maintenance of primarily a single craftsman: the public. I believe that cultural breadth, freedom and independence of culture, as well as today's and tomorrow's practitioners, would benefit greatly by giving more social bearers scope, incentives and creativity to fund and organise cultural life. More markers would appear, more voices would be heard, creative clusters would be formed and new prints would be made. Let this for all of us, along with vital economic stimulus and more accurate regulations, become a time of reflection and impact assessment of the long-term state of affairs. Let us learn from our Nordic neighbours and not least the Danish model in this respect, where foundations, non-profit forces, business and cultural and creative industries are grown to jointly secure cultural diversity and a more nuanced cultural palette. Madam President, I would like Much is different, and in a time of crisis there has been a consensus on specific cultural policy safeguards that have been launched. However, if this is normal, it is the clear cultural policy reasons that stand firm as well-known milestones before us in a comparison between our overall motion and the overall work of the government and the January parties in the report. The Swedish Democrats' total envelope this year exceeds the January parties' SEK 300 million. We are therefore investing a great deal in the overall field of culture. This year it is justified – the map should be adapted to reality and not the other way around. The vigilant one also notes that our ambitious reform proposals are beyond extraordinary measures given the pandemic. We prioritise cohesion when the government prioritises polemics. We prioritise our collective memory when the government prioritises myopia. We prioritise freedom under responsibility when the government prioritises freedom under identity policy. Politics is the art of the possible, but also the impossible. All politics is about priorities, and we obviously like different. Where we see needs, the January parties look backward. Where we see stimulation, the January parties see style. Where we see breadth, the January parties see political governance. Madam President, I would like This is reflected in the fact that we see that Sweden's value lasts. Our cultural heritage billion is firmly established; its necessity is becoming increasingly apparent, and demand is high from both actors and the general public. This is reflected in the fact that we, who first pushed the issue of production discounts for the Swedish film industry, are now also the first to budget for implementation. The issue is more than investigated, and every day Sweden loses competitiveness by rolling its thumbs. This is reflected in the fact that our reform agenda connects the power of culture with more areas of society and welfare instruments to break up drainpipe thinking and consider human beings as a cultural being, whether we are streaming films or sitting in the cinema, whether we are at the Royal Opera or Knäckebyhult's retirement home and, for that matter, whether we take part in the digitisation of the libraries or sink in Gustav Vasa's letter in the National Archives at Vadstena Castle. This applies regardless of whether we pursue cultural heritage crime across the Baltic Sea or mark out human traces in roadless land and link nature and cultural conservation. In the state funding for the cultural area, we need to operate with the breadth, the fine arts and the social trust. This breadth is in our budget. We are making great efforts and less down-priorities along with conscious redistributions from areas where segregation has gone before cohesion and lack of democracy has gone ahead of the purpose of democracy. Until better structures are in place for target fulfilment, application, accountability and transparency in support, state-sponsored roll cannot continue. Isolated anti-democratic actors who have become entrenched in Swedish contributions must not be given an inch at the expense of constructive actors such as in the field of public education. Madam President, I would like I will not go further this year into the financial framework or dance some sort of tabletango, but move on to two specific opinions which we from the Swedish Democrats' group have added to the report. For the sake of simplicity, let us gather them under the very special name of state-Swedish public broadcasting. The Parliament has previously issued an announcement to the government to introduce an event list containing the largest and most popular sporting events and classical parades such as the Olympic Summer and Winter Games. In recent years, viewing opportunities at these kinds of events have varied, but the problem picture has not fundamentally changed. The broadcasts should be able to be received, we believe, by at least 95% of the population of the country. Many events that the general public expects access to build community, raise frame of reference and forge cohesion. We do not share the government's assessment that there are insufficient grounds for introducing an event list and therefore do not believe that Parliament's announcements have been finalised, de facto. Furthermore, we are pursuing the issue of an investigation that will review the terms and conditions of public service. The future role of public services and the organisation of public services are large, comprehensive and fundamental elements that were not investigated in the previous investigation. Our view is that public service can be streamlined, modernised and cost reduced, while safeguarding the programme companies' unique mission. Having said that, Madam President, it remains to be looked forward to a constructive debate and to wish both the President and the committee colleagues a really good and joyful Christmas in advance.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-198	Madam President, I would like The past year has been a great test for all of us and for our society. We have not been able to meet loved ones in the way we have wanted, and we have had to get used to concerns about health and economics. It has been a part of many people's everyday lives in recent months. Moreover, we have had to give up much of the activities that we appreciate most in life, and with that there is also an emotional emptiness. No digital experiences can replace the feeling that only live music can give or the expectation that arises in a dark salon before the curtain goes up, the cool experience of standing in the middle of a cheerleader to cheer on the favorite team or the adrenaline kick that you get after an inspiring, creative association meeting with really good coffee. The inspiration that appears on a writer's evening at the library is also not replaceable. The own running round stands flat against the pier in the stomach before the start signal goes for a larger race. And for all those who usually perform or play for full parlors and grandstands, of course, the void is even greater. In addition, many after nine months are suffering from the pandemic of empty bank accounts. There are sparkles of light in the dark. Many have discovered new interests, taken up their own creation in the home, focused more on their health and found their way out into nature. In the spring and summer we could see that interest in outdoor life and visits to cultural history environments and nature reserves increased a lot. Perhaps the crisis can also lead to greater involvement in how to organise our society and strengthen welfare. My hope is that more people can now support the Left Party's view that culture is not a luxury that we can have or lose, but a necessary part of our lives. Several cultural policy issues have been debated during the crisis. Perhaps now there is also a desire from more people to address the structural problems that should have been addressed a long time ago, such as the difficulties of cultural workers to qualify for our security systems, to get their allowances into contracts and to get the right to unemployment insurance, to name a few. Madam President, I would like I hope that all the talks that the government has had with the cultural sector during this crisis can lead to a better cultural policy, safer health insurance and better SME policy. Only then can we attract a greater diversity of people to the cultural sector. It is also my hope that the force that I have seen in cultural workers in social media roll-calls, in manifestations and in public debate during this period can lead to lasting organisation. It will then be possible to tear down old structures and get out of the crisis with a feeling that not everything was in vain. Madam President, I would like There have long also been challenges for non-profit cultural life and other parts of civil society. For example, large parts of civil society organisations have not received their contributions for a decade, and this of course affects the possibilities of developing new activities and getting more members. We propose in the budget 10 million more for outdoor organisations. They have a great responsibility to increase the public's knowledge of the environment, the right of public access and how we can stay in nature. It should be seen as a first step in strengthening that sector, which we believe has much to add to better public health and meaningful leisure time. Next year is the year of outdoor life. We hope that it can be implemented in a good way, even though the government is not fulfilling its promise of increased resources. We also want to see the increased contributions to youth organisations become permanent and not temporary, as the government proposes. Hopefully there will soon be a time when we can gather again for physical meetings, association activities and cultural events. Then it is more important than ever that there are functional and accessible premises throughout the country. We therefore want to increase the funding for the assembly halls by an additional 25 million, so that more associations can use this time for the necessary renovations and stand ready to open the doors when the spread of infection is reduced again. Madam President, I would like In the Left Party Budget Movement The way out of the crisis – a plan for equality and green transition, there is extensive investment in welfare and a reformed tax system to increase equality. For us, culture is part of the well-being, and we believe in building a stronger cultural life and association life long-term. We are therefore proposing to invest more than 900 million in addition to the Government's proposal. In line with our equality policy, we want to give children and young people equal access to culture and sport. We therefore propose free sports school, cultural banks in the municipalities, where you can borrow equipment, and support for more recreation centres in smaller towns. We see that there is a need for support for municipalities to be able to remove the fees to the cultural school and therefore allocate 300 million. It should not be the thickness of the parents' wallet that determines whether a child is able to attend cultural school or not. But for more children to be able to take up space, more educators are needed. In fact, there is a decision here in Parliament to allocate 40 million to more places of education for cultural school educators, but only half has been allocated so far. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to highlight our commitment to Category 16. There are many unemployed cultural creators who are now looking for a new job, and the search pressure is great for the start of the autumn. The municipalities are increasingly having problems getting hold of cultural school educators, so I wonder what the government is waiting for. Let's get to work! Madam President, I would like In the Government's proposal, we also lack forward-looking investments in cultural heritage, so we have set aside funds for, among other things, the Technical Museum to offer free admission for children. We also allocate resources to carry out a national tour that has been started so far in some places, but we think it could come out to the whole country so that more children can discover how exciting technology is. We also allocate increased funding to the maintenance and accessibility of cultural heritage environments. This is a long-standing lack of funds. As with our investment in increased maintenance of assembly facilities, this is an initiative that creates jobs throughout the country. The increased holiday beach at home this summer showed that there is great potential to develop the tourism industry linked to the cultural heritage. There really is something to do here. The second major part of our cultural heritage package is about digitising the collections for research and preservation but also for making them accessible to the public. The organisation Sweden's museums expects that the need is over 300 year-olds to be able to graze the digitization. We have proposed an investment in a project over three years to implement digitalisation. Then we also want from the Left Party to see a continued investment in the Museum of Movements in Malmö, something that has been started up. For a number of years, people have worked with pre-studies, and civil society has been very committed. Now the government and the January parties are pulling the carpet for this initiative, which we find very unfortunate. The explanations that have been given are, in my opinion, weak excuses. Here they really had the chance to get an innovative museum outside Stockholm. Madam President, I would like An important part of our quest for an equal society is everyone's right to knowledge. The Swedish model of independent folk high schools has been a success story in many ways, and we want to strengthen the opportunity for more people to take part in the pedagogy and the second chance that this form of education entails. We therefore invest in higher remuneration per place on a general and special course as we believe that this has been neglected for a long time. We also propose more money for more study hours for newcomers who learn Swedish. We believe that it will pay off quickly when more people can get to work sooner. Our proposal is 185 million more than the government's, and I regret that several parties want to go the other way and cut the funding for peoples' education. Madam President, I would like My speaking time is running out. Time is fast when draft budgets of over 900 million are to be presented. To conclude, I would like to make it clear that the Left Party is abstaining from taking part in the decision on the first part of the report, because our framework exceeds that of the government, but I support the committee's proposal on the other points.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-218	Madam President, I would like Sweden is in a worrying and uncertain situation. We will deal with the extensive impact on our society that the coronapandemy has had and has at the same time as we will be able to solve the major problems that existed before the pandemic and that in many cases have worsened. These are, above all, the unemployment that is at risk of getting stuck, the health debt that has been added to long-term care queues, the deficiencies in care for the elderly and the increasing crime rate. Coping with this requires leadership and the ability to prioritise the resources we have and launch reforms that can help solve the problems. Today, there is also a brain drain from different parts of cultural life. Sound technicians, concert bookers, stage workers and others are looking for other professions. The question is whether they will return to the cultural sector. There is a huge force in our society that we have seen in the great efforts of health care workers who have worked hard to save lives and health, of entrepreneurs and employees who have fought for businesses not to go to the grave and of non-profit organisations and churches that have continued to stretch a hand to the vulnerable. The Christian Democrats are a strange and uncertain time, and the question is whether even if the pandemic eventually gives way, we have the ability to live as we did before. Is this a paradigm shift we're looking at? The talk about the self-realization of the individual and that we find the strength we need in our own inner ring as a false basic chord. Instead, we call for community and warmth, near heat. We long to show compassion in words and deeds, and we who have grandchildren long to give them hugs and lift them up in our arms. But we experience cropping because of a virus that affects us physically and mentally, and we ask ourselves, What is the point? We are approaching Christmas, a Christmas that we will not forget in the first place. Too many people knock on the door with loneliness. It is five per cent of Sweden's population, equivalent to half a million people, who celebrate Christmas alone. Now we are experiencing a time during the coronap pandemic when we are forced to live in a form of isolation that reinforces the image of loneliness. A pre-pandemic survey showed that one in ten Swedes did not have a single friend, that 63 percent had never borrowed anything, such as tools or flour, from a neighbor and that 16 percent did not know the name of a single neighbor. At this time of pandemic, the elderly are particularly hard hit by loneliness, and there is much to be said about how the care of the elderly has been broken on several levels. In the last survey, prior to the pandemic, approximately one in three persons over 85 reported that it was alone. Among those between 75 and 84, 25 percent of men and 18 percent of women said they had no one friend. Madam President, I would like What we are experiencing now stands in stark contrast to the Christian Democrats' aims for a good society. In our programme of principles, we say that in the small community, people have the chance to be seen and supplemented. It is in interaction with others that the individual develops into a unique personality. Today, more than ever, it is a perspective to strive for – when the pandemic drops its grip. The Christian Democrats' policy on culture, the media, religious communities and leisure is strongly influenced by civil society initiatives. We believe in people's ability to create communities where compassion and practical help go hand in hand. I do not believe that the state would be able to control the ship Mother Svea, all ships have women's names, but the fantastic voluntary efforts of individuals and associations around the country. We are committed to strengthening civil society because it reaches the individual who needs help. There are thousands of examples around the country of pure heroism, and they should of course be encouraged. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats pushed the government throughout the spring and summer to get in place a turnover support even for one-man entrepreneurs. This is important not least for all those in the cultural sector who carry out their activities in this form. In the amending budget presented in September, the government had finally heeded this, which means SEK 3.5 billion for 2020 and l, 5 billion for 2021. We Christian Democrats also support the proposal for extra support for the cultural sector due to loss of revenue during the pandemic. This means 1.5 billion for 2020 and l billion for 2021. However, we want to divide the support for 202l so that half a billion goes to the cultural sector and half a billion to civil society. We allocate SEK 100 million to public spaces, SEK 100 million to support outdoor organisations and SEK 260 million to support the non-profit sector. Of the latter, 50 million will go to non-profit organisations in their work against homelessness among young adults where mental ill-health can be a contributing factor to homelessness, and 10 million will go to a targeted effort towards the loneliness of the elderly. We are making a major and urgent effort of SEK 850 million per year to introduce a leisure card for all children between grades 2 and 9. The card is loaded with financial support for participation fees in leadership-led activities in the Swedish association life and cultural school. It can be said that it is a development of what we previously called leisure money, which has been discussed here a few times before. We also strengthen the Living History Forum by 10 million. We want the Foundation, in addition to informing about Nazism and Communism, to also inform about violent Islamism. A completely new and very important grant is a sports venture for the elderly with SEK 20 million. We also have our own investment of 15 million for non-profit music organizers. Although we are alone in this, we want to see a classic list that highlights the most important literature through Swedish history. Madam President, I would like It is more urgent than ever to build something new. What was previously too cold a society needs to change to warmth and proximity. We need each other, and we need faith and hope and build wisely together. The last thing that leaves man is hope. I would therefore like to conclude by referring to civil rights lawyer Bryan Stevenson, who, as one in four, is receiving the Right Livelihood Prize this evening, including for his significant efforts among those sentenced to death in the Christian Democrats. He says that hope is a powerful force, a superpower, that can change the world. I agree with the specific opinion of the Christian Democrats.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-240	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister for the Environment and Climate Policy Isabella Lövin, Minister for Finance Magdalena Andersson, Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth and Minister for Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind. Minister for the Environment and Climate Policy Isabella Lövin answers both general policy questions and questions within her own area of responsibility. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-242	Madam President, I would like This weekend, Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson told Sydsvenskan that he wants to tear up the system of labour immigration and reintroduce rules where Sweden only allows the labour migration of qualified workers, such as engineers and doctors, after a test of whether there is a need in the country. At the same time, it is stated in the January agreement that the current rules on labour immigration should be safeguarded. It is not easy to know what the government wants. My question to Isabella Lövin is: Does she share the view of the Minister for Migration that certain forms of labour immigration should be prohibited?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-245	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Maria Stenergard. It is true that in the January agreement we agree that labour immigration is something that is important. We have set up an investigation to look at the so-called competence demonstrations, which are a problem that we need to address. It is something that makes it impossible for people who have the skills that Sweden needs to stay. At the same time, the investigation looks at the type of work permit where one might suspect that there is an abuse associated with a residence permit. There is, of course, a problem that we may need to address.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-247	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats want to take a strong stand against fraud linked to labour immigration. People should not be exploited or exploited by our regulations. That is why we want to ban labour migration to personal assistance, where we know that there is widespread fraud and serious organised crime. It seems that the Minister for Migration is sometimes on the same track, but the investigation referred to by the Minister does not say anything about it. So what does the government really think?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-250	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for the question, Maria Stenergard. What we agree with our cooperation parties is what I said: we stand by labour immigration that is needed, and we also look at the possible abuse that exists. There we must, if necessary, put forward further initiatives to prevent this.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-252	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. The government's management of the pandemic can ask many questions about. It is both about its preventive nature and its responsiveness. As you know, the government has a general ambition to get more people to go by public transport instead of by car. This is done primarily by taxing and charging motorists. Unfortunately, however, the government seems to have overlooked the possibility that the car has to be a partial solution to reduce the spread of infection in the Christian Democrats in particular.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-256	Madam President, I would like The car is important to many people in order to get to work, and it is too much of Sweden absolutely necessary for you to have the opportunity at all to work. This is something that we in the government are well aware of. That is why we also think it is important that our fleet of vehicles should be changed so that we can build such a fleet that will also make it possible for the whole country to get to and from work in the long term. As far as the pandemic and congestion tax are concerned, it is an issue that we have discussed in the government with the Stockholm region. This is where congestion taxes are levied, and it goes to infrastructure investments in the Stockholm region. But the Stockholm region has not been interested in paused the congestion tax. On the other hand, we come with the special tax reduction, the corona tax reduction, which means that if you have increased labour costs during the pandemic, you also have the opportunity to get this corona reduction.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-260	Frau President! Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. It is clear that a paused congestion tax is a temporary measure to reduce the spread of infection and perhaps even save lives before we get a vaccine available to the population. Does the Minister of Finance not think it would be reasonable to find other financing solutions for the infrastructure projects that are ongoing not only in Stockholm but also in the Gothenburg area, with the West Link?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-262	Madam President, I would like We have not wanted to cross the Stockholm region in terms of congestion tax. On the other hand, we see that the car is important, and that is why we have ensured, among other things, that during the crisis parking benefits will no longer be taxed in the same way as before. We also have the special corona tax reduction. In addition, the Tax Agency will be generous in its application, so if, for example, you get a taxi ride paid by the employer, you will not be taxed in the way that is done during normal times.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-264	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. It's about 80 and 90 roads. Since 2014, Trafikverket has been working to systematically adapt the speeds in large parts of our national road network. It's about 500 miles on state roads. Among other things, the speed of certain distances is reduced from 90 to 80, and this often arouses criticism among citizens. This also leads to appeals, which the Government is aware of. This applies, for example, to road 23 in Kronoberg and Kalmar County. Instead of the permanent speed reductions, I would like to see variable speeds mediated by dynamic speed signs, which, with reference to road conditions, traffic intensity, weather, etc., can mean both higher and lower speeds. My question is: How does the Government view working more with dynamic speed boards rather than unilaterally permanent speed regulation on individual road routes?
i-CCRnL9auC9zor6NCYr8PfT	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Per Schöldberg! I'm positive about dynamic speed signage. There are such experiments today that the Swedish Transport Administration is conducting, where one can adapt according to current conditions such as what the weather is like and how the traffic rhythm is. This type of experiment continues. However, it is also important that we continue to improve road safety. We are making historic efforts in the current national plan to help co-finance not least so that the county roads can get central railings. In this way, we would not have to reduce speed, but in some cases we would even be able to increase speed and short commuting distances, but still ensure that we travel safely. We therefore need to work in different ways to improve road standards and road safety, but also to be able to use new innovations, such as variable speed signs.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-271	Madam President, I would like The systematic speed adjustment will last for ten years, from 2015 to 2025. We're in 2020 now. Is there a mid-term evaluation planned? That's a pretty long time suit.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-272	Madam President, I would like This is an investment that the Swedish Transport Administration makes and which is continuously evaluated. At the moment, there is a great deal of focus, not least on how we can meet the wishes and demands of regions in the country that above all on longer commuting distances do not slow down speed. Then co-financing of the centre railings is a variant. At the same time, we should remember to lower the speed from 90 to 80 on a distance, it is 50 seconds of time loss, while saving lives and reducing mortality by 40%.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-274	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for the Environment. Clean and safe drinking water is the greatest need for people. That is something we must be very careful about, even in a country like Sweden that has no major shortage. Vättern is Sweden's second largest lake, drinking water revenue for almost 300 000 people and a Natura 2000 area. The lake is threatened from several different directions. Among other things, Vättern is one of the Swedish Armed Forces' training areas. The exercises at Vättern are mainly flying exercises above the lake and exercises where ammunition is pushed out over the lake and ends up in the water and then at the bottom. In recent years, the Swedish Armed Forces have been authorised to shoot even more out over Lake Vättern's water. The protests from the residents around the lake are of course large. My question is this: what does the Minister for the Environment think about the fact that Vättern, which is an important source of drinking water, is also being used for environmentally dangerous defence exercises?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-279	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hanna Gunnarsson, for this question which, of course, is not quite easy to answer! Sweden needs a defence force, and the Swedish Armed Forces have unanimous decisions in the Swedish Parliament behind them. Increased needs have also been identified, which of course also means increased need for training at the Swedish Armed Forces. So it is in the national security interest to do so. At the same time, of course, we have a great need to ensure food and water supplies for the kingdom. It is also a security issue. My answer to Hanna Gunnarsson's question is that we have legislation to protect drinking water supply and environmental testing that also applies to the Swedish Armed Forces.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-283	Madam President, I would like Like the Minister for the Environment, we sometimes end up in situations where legislation goes a little against each other. One problem is national interests. The total defense has very strong national interests that may be opposed to other social interests such as the environment or housing construction. Could the Minister of the Environment be willing to review legislation in order to enhance environmental issues in national interests?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-285	Madam President, I would like The environmental code is the legislation that we have to test against. There, the Riksdag has decided that the national interest in the defence has a special position. It is something that can go beyond the ordinary environmental test, because it is a matter of national security. This is a debate that needs to be taken in the Swedish Parliament.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-286	Madam President, I would like Sweden needs a pandemic law that regulates restrictions and recommendations based on a risk of infection – not through the Order Act, as today, because the Order Act regulates the police need for order regardless of infection. A pandemic law is being prepared by the government. The Social Affairs Committee has received information from the government about the work and content of the forthcoming law. It was then apparent that questions of financial compensation to traders, associations and others are not included in the memorandum prepared because such questions lie with the Ministry of Finance. I thought proposals came from the government. The Christian Democrats believe that some kind of framework or principles for financial compensation must be stated in the forthcoming Pandemic Act. My question is, Madam President: what is the view of the Minister for Finance on this issue?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-289	Madam President, I would like We are in the midst of a very serious pandemic, which, in addition to endangering people's lives and health, has also had a major economic impact. It has not been a pandemic in our adult age in this way. However, I have seen many economic crises, including when the Christian Democrats were in government during the financial crisis. I note that this government, with social democrats and environmentalists and in cooperation with the Center Party and the Liberals, has acted very differently precisely with regard to the Swedish business community compared to what the Christian Democrats did during the time they were in the government. We have really tried to use the strength we have, thanks to our paying off on the public debt, to ensure that we support viable companies through this crisis – unlike when the Christian Democrats were in government position and we had a veritable closure of too many Swedish industrial companies. It was work that never came back. This also applies, of course, to the future.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-291	Madam President, I would like Taking responsibility for their reign is hardly a characteristic of this government. You point fingers and send the responsibility somewhere else, so also now. Let me repeat the question: does the government intend to present a pandemic law without questions about financial compensation to traders and others who are affected? Will this not be included? Will there again be a law that does not capture the whole process, which we need?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-293	Madam President, I would like So these were examples of the government taking responsibility in this crisis in a way that previous governments have not always done. When we have legislation, of course, we go forward with the legislation. Then, of course, we will also look at the financial consequences and the need to support companies – just as we have done throughout this year, where we have made sure to provide historic support to ensure that viable companies are able to survive through the pandemic.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-296	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind. It's about media politics. Media policy is something that is rather rarely discussed in this House, while at the same time it is very central. It is central to people in their lives, but it is also central to the functioning of democracy. At the moment, the Swedish media are in a rather difficult situation. This is due to a digital shift in which business models need to be redesigned. This is because Facebook and Google take a large share of advertising revenue. At the moment, there is also a pandemic to deal with. We agree in the January agreement to strengthen media support and do so too, which is very good. But I would also like to hear the views of the Government on the future developments. A situation where more and more people depend on state aid is problematic – we also want free media to look at us.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-300	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Christer Nylander, for an urgent question! Free and independent media are central to our democracy, both a strong public service and the strong and free commercial media throughout the country. That is why this government has been extremely active in both reforming media support and taking steps to also strengthen press and media support to enable journalism across the country. During the pandemic, the media have been under extreme pressure. We have given EUR 700 million in targeted support to the media during this time. We have also made several decisions, even as late as today, and increased distribution aid and improved the possibility of plugging the white spots around the country. We see the digital development perhaps even faster now, and then it is still important that we have a high level of readiness to support the media. I am prepared to follow developments closely and see if we need to take further steps to get the right support system in place.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-304	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply, and I also thank him for the efforts that the government has made during this period. That has been absolutely necessary in the situation in which we find ourselves. I think 2019 was a rather difficult year for Swedish private media. It was somewhat better in 2020 thanks to the efforts that you have made in the budgetary cooperation that we have. We don't really know how it will be in 2021, but there is a lot of evidence that it will also be quite difficult due to the digital transformation. Therefore, perhaps there is reason for this House to think more often about what it means when more and more media become dependent on state aid, while at the same time it is quite important that they are free from power and able to examine us.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-307	Madam President, I would like It is crucial that it is an arm's length distance, and an extremely long arm's length, especially perhaps in terms of support for the media. After all, we have set up special innovation support in the media support system, and it aims to support the media in the transformation that they are in. But let's realise that, as Christer Nylander says, this is a development that will have a major impact on the media sector and that we need to have a high level of preparedness to support the media in the future and find effective models that meet correctly even then.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-308	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. It is about the report that the OECD produced earlier this week, E conomic Outlook, for December. In it, the OECD highlights three important areas for politicians to consider during the Corona crisis. The first is that the OECD believes that we must invest in education, health and digitalisation. The second point highlighted by the report is how important it is that we now invest in order to prevent inequalities in the world becoming even greater in the wake of the crisis. Thirdly, the OECD wants increased international cooperation to reduce the risk of nationalism and isolation. In view of this, I would, of course, like to ask the Minister for Finance about her reaction to the report.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-311	Madam President, I would like That's an exciting question. The OECD report is very interesting. It draws a dark picture of the situation here and now but also a huge hope of how the situation can develop in the world in terms of health and not least economics when we get a vaccine. Their recommendations are very close to the policy of the government. In the budget that we have presented to Parliament, we have very large training efforts with 55 000 more training places next year. We have major investments in health care and care for the elderly – a major investment in care for the elderly in order to ensure everyday life for our elderly. We also have important efforts to reduce the gaps, including a special pension supplement for the elderly who have worked a full, long working life but still have a low pension. It will make life more secure for the elderly and also increase justice in society.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-313	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would like to hear from the Minister for Finance what this view of the risk of the crisis leading to increased inequality is like in the context of EU cooperation. Is there an understanding among other European leaders that we need to counteract this trend?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-315	Madam President, I would like There is a growing awareness in international economic policy discussions that gaps are bad for economic development. It is a very interesting discussion that we unfortunately hear far too little of in Sweden. I am very concerned about the right-wing parties in Sweden who still seem to believe that increased inequality and greater gaps are driving the development forward. In international discussions, when I meet many of my colleagues, I believe that cohesive societies are good and that they also boost the growth of the economy.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-318	Madam President, I would like As a player but also as a coach and judge in my sport handball I realized quite early that those who were awarded the best training times were the guys. We know that equal sport is a prerequisite for a strong sport in Sweden. It's been quite a while since I was active myself, and I know it's improved, but I also know there's still a lot to do. We are still in the midst of a serious pandemic, and sport has been hit extremely hard. However, it is gratifying to note that the government has made a number of efforts to ensure that sport survives this pandemic. But my question to Minister of Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind is: How does the government ensure that the money that is now being distributed to Sports Sweden not only goes to the boys but also to the girls and that they do not spread and continue to increase the inequality and inequality that exists in sport?
i-GkkftuwK6FaiNRSCheUP7T	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Emma Hult, for the question! I believe that all of us who have both been involved in sport and are also involved in sports policy dream of a future in which everyone regardless of gender and background should have equal opportunities to grow and develop in their sport. To get there we need to work with a lot of different types of tools both nationally and locally. This is an issue where we are not there yet, but we cannot be satisfied until we are really there. It is important right now that sport is going through a huge steel bath in the coronapdemine that this hard blow to sport does not reinforce existing inequalities. That is why we did so in the new billion and the support that we clarified the demands of the government that the sports movement should also be able to take account of just equal conditions and that the crisis should not deepen inequality. I'm glad to see it's made a difference. Last week we were told that elite football has assumed its responsibilities and given women's football on the elite side all the support they have sought – at the expense of the gentlemen in that case. That's right. That is exactly how we are going to act on these issues.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-325	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. That was an extremely encouraging message. After the pandemic, we probably will not have a completely equal sport in Sweden. What does the Minister of Sport think would be important that we also work with in the future? The Minister mentioned that we need to work with different tools. Who could it be?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-327	Madam President, I would like On the other hand, we need to continue working with equal opportunities. It is about everything from training times to the possibility of having access to different halls and which halls you develop. The Government has given a commission to Boverket to review how to support the municipalities in this. There is a great deal of responsibility at the municipal level when it comes to equal pay. The sports movement has taken an important step with an initiative called Put the ball into motion. Here we need to respond both nationally and locally.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-328	Madam President, I would like This government repeatedly says to avoid party political bickering. I agree, and I think it is a wise attitude. The Prime Minister then deals with blaming others for the government's failure to deal with coronas. The Minister for Industry suggests that the government is presenting economic emergency packages, emergency packages initiated by the Moderates. My view is not that it is to overcome party political bickering but, on the contrary, to contribute to it. My specific question to the Minister for Finance is therefore: does the Minister for Finance share the picture that it was the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats who presented a committee initiative in the Committee on Finance with a new crisis support for the partnership and limited partnership on 17 November and that the government and the cooperation parties agreed to it on 26 November?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-329	Madam President, I would like Throughout the crisis, we have had very good discussions with the Committee on Finance on economic policy. On some issues we have not felt the same, but we have been able to cooperate well. The government has worked extremely actively to come up with these historic crisis packages. The policy pursued by the government in this parliamentary term has not been seen in modern times. Some of the work we have done has also been speeded up because it has gone faster in Parliament, including on the initiative of the Christian Democrats. As far as trading companies were concerned, such a committee initiative was on the table. The government worked quickly to find a solution and has looked at the issue since before. I am pleased that there is a consensus in Parliament to resolve this issue.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-333	Madam President, I would like I address my question to Minister Tomas. Sweden risks being left without drivers because it has not been possible under the coronapendemin to carry out trainings and training courses for so-called YKB, a driving licence, which is a requirement for being active in the profession. This certificate shall be renewed every five years through refresher training. According to the Swedish Transport Agency's forecast, more than 100 000 drivers are now at risk of being banned. The consequences for society are far greater as important deliveries are at risk of not being delivered. It may be medical equipment, corona vaccine or important deliveries to our industry. The situation has been known since last spring. However, the government has chosen not to act, which has now led to a committee initiative on the matter. My question is therefore: will the Minister take urgent action to introduce a new derogation for the whole of 2021 with regard to the requirement for further training within the YKB, so that Sweden does not risk standing without drivers for socially important deliveries?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-338	Madam President, I would like Patrik Jönsson's history is not true. Sweden was one of the countries that early initiated their own legislation and an opportunity to obtain a derogation for YKB. Then we negotiated through the EU, and the Commission initiated common rules so that not every country will find its own separate rules on what will apply to transport through the EU. We have pointed out to the European Union that we need to ensure that they are extended. The Commission has not yet given any information on this. It's extremely serious. This means that 2,600 drivers are unlikely to be able to complete YKB now in December. But we should remember that it is 1.5 per cent of the total number of drivers in Sweden. So it is not in that way that Transportsverige will stand still. In fact, in 2020 more drivers were trained than in 2019. But, of course, it is extremely serious for individual drivers. We are doing what we can to ensure that the EU quickly brings about a new extension of the omnibus package.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-341	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Isabella Lövin. The pandemic is going the wrong way right now. The only light in the tunnel is that there will soon be vaccines and that we can therefore start with vaccinations. Given the difficulties Sweden had during the mass vaccination of swine flu and the major difficulties the government had last spring in getting started properly with the testing throughout the country, I and the Center Party urged the government already in April to quickly start vaccination planning. My question to the Government is: Do you now have a plan ready, so that you can guarantee that the Swedish population will be protected at least as quickly, preferably faster, as the governments of our neighbouring countries have ensured that their respective populations will have good protection against covid-19?
i-E5o9UZFtvGDpL6cCGkcnML	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Anders W Jonsson! The government has been very active in ensuring that, when the vaccines are approved, we will have access to doses for the Swedish population. We have already guaranteed more doses than the population of Sweden. It is true that these are not yet approved, and they are of different kinds. When it comes to planning for how it should be done, we start from the Swedish Public Health Agency's national vaccination plan. It was produced on behalf of the government, and the first version was presented on August 31. When we know more about the vaccines and how to handle them – some require extreme cold – we will be able to provide more details on how to distribute them.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-347	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. Since the liberalisation of vehicle inspection, the number of inspection stations has increased in densely populated parts of the country. But there are areas in Sweden where accessibility has become very small. For example, the car test has closed its station in Tärnaby, and there are no other alternatives. They're referring to Storuman. In between, it is 130 miles [130 km] of a single road, and the journey takes about three and a half hours of return. Others get an even longer journey. It takes at least half a working day and a lot of fuel to carry out the statutory car inspection, which must be available to everyone within a reasonable distance and not least in a part of the country where the car is a necessary means of transport.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-350	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Jessica Thunander! It's extremely interesting. It also shows the danger and weakness of rapidly privatising businesses in the belief that it will provide a good range of services throughout the country. We see that instead it means concentration in big cities, while no one takes overall responsibility. We have seen this with regard to pharmacies and some other activities. Unfortunately, it is also evident when it comes to car inspection. I am concerned about whether we are going to have a development in which the possibility of having their car inspected throughout the country deteriorates and where there are greater gaps and differences. The inspection industry has a great responsibility for the supply it actually offers. There is also a state-owned company, which I assume takes a special responsibility to ensure that citizens are provided with good service. We are, of course, following developments and are prepared to act.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-354	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister of Culture. The cultural cooperation model was introduced by the Alliance Government in 2011 and has been described as one of the major cultural policy reforms. In consultation with the collaboration parties, the Government has decided on 1 billion in conversion aid to culture in 2021. The money has not yet been distributed. In the past, the authorities have been given the task of allocating such funds. It is now time for the government to show confidence in and believe in the capacity of the regions and to allow them, through the cultural cooperation model, to take responsibility for the billion to be allocated. Does the Minister have faith in the regions' ability to distribute the money? And does the Minister continue to believe in the model of cultural cooperation?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-358	Madam President, I would like Yes, I have great faith in the ability of the regions. In the budget for next year, the government has strengthened the cultural cooperation model by 150 permanent million and an additional 150 million in temporary support. It can be interpreted as emergency aid to allocate in addition to the support we have provided this year to the cultural cooperation model. We will have to come back to what the distribution of the new start-up billion will look like. However, I find it remarkable that Roland Utbolt is asking this question, because the Christian Democrats are drastically cutting down on the model of cultural cooperation in their next year's budget. It harms the ability of the regions to maintain the important infrastructure of regional cultural activities, as employers of many freelancers, in support of non-profit cultural life but also as regional nodes and important cultural centres throughout the country.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-361	Madam President, I would like At home in Skåne, the Moderates already cut before the pandemic down on public transport. Now, during the pandemic, they continue to cut back. They put money from the government on high and improve the results instead of giving the actors a good public transport. At the same time, they choose to introduce planing, i.e. cut back on working time, for train drivers and the like. This means crowding on buses and trains, deteriorating working conditions and raising money to get a good result. This is confusing for the citizens. Could the Minister for Infrastructure please explain what the government has done to invest in public transport in the crisis, so that citizens can see what is the moderate government in Skåne's responsibility and what is the government's responsibility?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-363	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ola Möller, for the question! It's very interesting. Public transport is very important for people to get to work. This applies not least to all those who do not have the opportunity to work at home, do not have a car, cannot ride a bike or otherwise get to work. Then public transport is needed. But in a pandemic, we must also ensure that you can travel safely. That is why we have contributed historically large sums to public transport: 3 billion in state subsidies this year and 2 billion already decided for next year. Of course, I am extremely concerned when, as in Skåne, public transport continues to be cut. Then there is a risk that there will be congestion on buses and people will be infected. I therefore intend to ensure that the next distribution of state subsidies will be tested on the basis of conditions to maintain volume. If you can't do that, you should not receive the state subsidies that we distribute.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-365	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Infrastructure. The costs of the new metro in Stockholm have increased. The region and municipalities are prepared to pay their share of the increased costs. But one might wonder what the government is up to. After a long wait, a negotiator has been appointed to negotiate away the responsibility of the state for the increased costs. In addition, it has chosen to lump together several major projects that have come different stages in this negotiation. There are great risks to this. There may be delays for those projects that have advanced far and less quality for those that are forced to speed up. Is the government prepared to at least divide the projects into the forthcoming negotiations?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-368	Madam President, I would like I'm a little surprised by the question. It was, of course, a strong request from not least regional representatives and moderate representatives in the region that we should appoint a negotiating person to launch a discussion in the light of the considerable costs involved in the construction of infrastructure in the Stockholm region. This is not the government's project, but this applies, among other things, to the metro project for which the Stockholm region is responsible and which has been increased by SEK 9 billion. This amounts to approximately 50% cost-reimbursement. At the same time, of course, it is also in the interests of the government and the state to ensure that there are well-functioning communications throughout the Stockholm region. We have therefore set up a negotiator to see how we can find good solutions in the difficult order of priorities that it can mean when to find potential savings items or when the region needs to be prepared to provide resources in order not to set up important infrastructure investments that are needed in the region.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-371	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Finance. In these times, there is a lot that is hard on society and not least small businesses. They are honest workers who work from early morning to late evening to row their dream in port and succeed in the life project that has been started. With some of the world's highest taxes, a friendly hand is expected from the state in times of crisis. Good support does not, however, help if you cannot take part of them. For example, I was contacted yesterday by a woman who since the 90s has run a clinic where she works with chronic pain in the elderly. During the spring, she had to let her business rest in order to be able to go to checkout. Because she had unemployment benefit, she cannot now take part in the turnover subsidy. This was an example.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-375	Madam President, I would like The government has taken a wide range of measures to support both large and small companies, thus saving Swedish companies and Swedish jobs. Among other things, we have introduced more opportunities to go to unemployment insurance if you are self-employed. In addition, there is special support for self-employed workers who lose a lot of turnover. There is also a special possibility to set aside money in the accrual fund and to have previous tax refunded. Then you have up to six years to offset future losses, but you can also wait for tax payments for many years. So there is support for the smallest companies. But you wonder how the Swedish Democrats think when they ask this question. They want to increase the burden on small businesses by doubling restaurant VAT. For precisely the industry that has the toughest now, the Swedish Democrats want to double VAT. Then they talk about life's work at risk!
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-377	Madam President, I would like I agree with what the Minister for Infrastructure said about the payment of state compensation for public transport in Sweden. It is very welcome that the EUR 3 billion have finally been paid out. Unfortunately, this is a state compensation for lost ticket revenues that only applies for the period March to midsummer. We see that public transport continues to get on its knees. The government has announced EUR 2 billion in the next budget, that is, for next year, as the Minister said. But there is still a lost ticket app from Midsummer to New Year. Regional public transport authorities are losing almost SEK 1 billion a month. Does the Minister think that the EUR 3 billion that has now been paid out is sufficient to compensate for this year? What else does the Minister intend to do? Does he intend to allocate extra funds for lost ticket revenue this year, not for next year?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-380	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the question! This gives me room to say that, in addition to the EUR 3 billion earmarked state subsidies for public transport and the EUR 2 billion coming next year, we have made historic contributions to general state subsidies for municipalities and regions. It is municipalities and regions that have the main responsibility for public transport. In fact, it is a unique event for the state to go in and help municipalities and regions to maintain public transport. This is how we think we should act during the crisis. We have to help each other. Although it is a municipal and regional responsibility to ensure that even during a pandemic there is a good public transport system, the state ensures that general state grants provide better conditions for municipalities and regions to deal with the challenges. We are also paying for earmarked state subsidies. But then it is important that these are used to maintain the volume and not to make savings in public transport.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-383	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Infrastructure Eneroth, who is now given another chance. In this House we have the exciting situation that we have decided on a sector target to reduce CO2 emissions in the infrastructure sector by 70% by 2030. It's ten years away. The Finnish Transport Agency has now released an initial report for the major infrastructure bill. It points to three ways to reach the goal. It's about biofuels, electrification and a price increase at the pump. The hook is just one in all three examples points to a problem. Biofuel is not enough. I have noted that there are also parties who do not really want us to be able to import this. As far as the electricity side is concerned, it is noted that we are not getting wires in place and that we probably have too little electricity in view of the fact that we are closing nuclear power. And it is noted that the last option – to raise the price to SEK 50 – is probably not socially acceptable.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-387	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Jacobsson, for the question! I agree that 50 kroner is not realistic. The Finnish Transport Administration also says in its forecasts that this is a calculation example. But it is true that it is through biofuels and, not least, recycling that we are able to reduce emissions from the first stage, perhaps road traffic. In the future, it is likely to be from the flight. It is through electrification that we have the opportunity in the coming years to radically reduce emissions from road traffic in particular. We have even appointed a special electrification commission and commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to plan for 3,000 kilometres of electric road. We are also expanding the charging infrastructure and the Swedish electricity system to meet this challenge. We also need to work on transport efficiency. I believe that this is a challenge that can bring even greater savings by finding smart transport. A clear example of this is how we could better coordinate transport as e-commerce increases. Otherwise, the number of freight transport risks increasing dramatically. I am hopeful about the efforts of both the government and the business community themselves.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-393	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. In the wake of the Corona, unemployment is increasing rapidly. Young people, born abroad and workers are most severely affected, not least in the service and trade sectors. Growing unemployment also means an increased risk of poverty and inequality, something that we Social Democrats want to counteract. For us, jobs and security are among the most important tools for reducing gaps and building a stronger Sweden.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-396	Madam President, I would like Unemployment affects many people, but above all those who have a slightly weaker connection to the labour market. This applies not least to our young but also to new arrivals. It is important that you are prepared to change. For example, the restaurant industry is an important sector for both young and new arrivals. There are fewer jobs there now. Then you have to think about where the jobs can be, for example in the care of the elderly. You have to make sure to change, and there should be good opportunities to do so. That's why we're expanding the training places by 55 000 to next year. We are also ensuring that there is more labour market policy. We also ensure that there is financial security. We have raised both the roof and the floor of the unemployment fund and made sure that more young people can come in. There we differ from the Moderates, who now want to lower the unemployment fund both for those who have worked for a long time and for young people who can now get 11 000. The Moderates think it's too much and want to bring it down by 3,000. There's a difference depending on what the government looks like.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-398	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Finance. In Sweden, we have financial support for people who need the car, for example, because of functional variations. For these people, the current system of bonuses – malus has very large negative financial consequences. For large groups the possibility of investing in their own car will be very limited. A family with children who after 1 May need a large minivan can receive 40 000 SEK in financial support to buy in the car. But in the three years that follow, you will have to pay up to $100,000 in extra vehicle tax.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-402	Madam President, I would like Bonus – malus is an important way for us to have a better fleet in the future. We are going to have a fleet of vehicles that emits considerably less than today. It is important that we do not buy SUVs that emit a lot but instead buy vehicles that emit less, preferably electric vehicles but also other things. It is also important for people with normal incomes in the future to have the opportunity to buy a car, a used car that does not have too much emissions, and thus be able to continue to go to work when the oil price is at risk of rising. But of course we need to look at what the bonus – the Malus system can have for effects. Of course, we must also keep an eye on how other forms of aid can be shared if there are special needs and there are no other possibilities.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-404	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Culture and Democracy Lind. The non-profit sector is an important sphere in our society alongside the private and public sectors. Society supports countless activities that are considered to be of great value. In recent years, it has been repeatedly noted that public support has been given to anti-democratic and violent organisations. All the parties in here seem to agree that this is unacceptable. At the same time, the government is delaying making proposals to remedy the problem, which means that organisations that we already know should not receive support continue to receive it year after year. The price of slowness is paid in times of crisis, especially in these times during the pandemic, when funds are needed elsewhere. It's a failure. The government's proposal on democracy criteria is delayed. My question is this: what does the Minister intend to do to ensure that public support for anti-social organisations can be frozen until there is a detailed proposal on the table?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-408	Madam President, I would like It is vital to have a free, independent and vibrant civil society, both for democracy and for all the important social efforts that are being made. I have been clear on countless occasions that public funds should only go to activities that are compatible with the fundamental values of society. Of course, they should not be misused. We have continued to work on the strengthened, clarified, uniform and long-term conditions of democracy. As it has emerged that we need to look further at the issue of the confidentiality of personal data in order for this legislation to be useful, it goes without saying that we need to investigate it, so that we do not have new democratic conditions in place which cannot then be applied. It is wrong that it should be a matter of conscious procrastination or disinterest, as some in the opposition would lie. We're gonna work on it. We have the ambition to present clarified democratic conditions during this term of office. We have also carried out further efforts and initiatives to strengthen supervision.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-411	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövin. Last year, weapons were stolen from the Government Office – not once, not twice, but three times. These were powerful guns acquired to protect the Government Office in the event of terrorist attacks. Now it turns out that the weapons ended up with criminals, and this week it was reported that one of these weapons ended up with a 15-year-old who was on the run from an HVB home. This is a worrying situation, given that we already have the most shootings in Europe per capita. It is worrying that the government cannot control the weapons available to protect the Government Office. What will the government do to prevent a fourth and a fifth theft? Why is the security legislation not used to check the guards, which could have been done?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-415	Madam President, I would like I thank Mikael Oscarsson for the question. It is important to point out that responsibility for the aforementioned weapons, which have been stolen, used for criminal activities and recovered, rests with the security company which, in accordance with procurement, is to protect the Government Office. There is, of course, a further investigation into this. The Government Office has also announced a review of its agreement with the security company.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-417	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Isabella Lövin. I found out that it was the last question time for Lövin, so I quickly rushed here to have the opportunity to ask a question about the four and a half years when Lövin was a minister responsible for climate change. A lot has happened these years. Just to give you a few examples: industry has gone from being quite reluctant to the transition to launching large-scale fossil-free conversion projects. The price of emissions within the European Union has more than quadrupled. Electric car sales are now breaking record every month. It's been some incredibly exciting years. I would like to ask the Government to describe these years and the work of the government itself during this time.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-418	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Lorentz for drawing attention to this. It has certainly been an amazing journey to experience. Since this Parliament laid down the Climate Act and the climate policy framework, a fantastic activity has started in Sweden, not least in the business sector. Now we have gone from great scepticism in the business world to the fact that business is now at the forefront of the transition. Yesterday, I and Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan took part in a launch of a brand strategy for batteries where large companies, the mining industry, Northvolt, established in northern Sweden, scale up and show in concrete projects what the green transition looks like. It's a great journey to have been through.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-420	Here I am somewhat condoning the fact that it was a more general issue than a question of the official duties of the Government. But it was one of the last questions to Minister Lövin, so forbearance is allowed.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-421	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. The new VAT rule in trade with mobile phones, which means that instead of the seller, the buyer will be liable for accounting and payment of outgoing VAT, will apply from 1 April 2021. We made a decision in Parliament on this yesterday. The aim is to prevent large-scale VAT fraud. This trade is a question of qualified and organised economic crime of a very serious nature. The tax loss due to VAT fraud amounts to a large amount. How effective does the Minister of Finance estimate that this change will be to stop these systematic frauds?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-425	Madam President, I would like Reverse VAT obligations are an effective way of stopping this kind of VAT fraud on those goods. My assessment is that this will be effective, but we will of course follow developments closely. These are a wide range of measures that the government has taken to stop and reduce the opportunities for tax evasion and evasion. It is important for there to be fair competition between all those who are doing the right thing, and it is also important to stop the flow of money into organised crime. This is about stopping gang crime and organised crime. Here the government works hard by being hard on the crimes with increased penalties, by employing more police officers and by the police being able to work more preventively. Here, the municipalities receive additional support. But we're also going to go to the money. There, the measures taken systematically by the government to stop tax evasion are an important part of combating organised crime.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-428	Madam President, I would like When jobs are gathered in and around cities, a well-functioning public transport system becomes important for people's everyday lives to function. With today's priority rules governing the type of traffic that gets track modes unfortunately weighs daily work and study commuting feather light towards long-distance trains. This means that in the bloodstream of municipalities around our big cities there are places, such as Gnesta, where people now take the car despite the rails and the station being in the middle of society. It is bad for the individual because the train had saved time, it is bad for the opportunity to expand the housing market in municipalities with commuting distances that still have plenty of room for more and it is bad for the environment. Is the Minister of Infrastructure willing to work actively for a change in the priority rules so that even train for study and work commuting can weigh heavily in future train path distributions?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-430	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Ann-Sofie for the question. It is highly topical. Recently, I met representatives of Sörmland who raised precisely that issue. It's interesting. It is incredibly important that those who commute daily to work know confidence and security. Yes, we will continue to work on the discussion of priority. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to say that perhaps absolutely crucial is not the allocation or the priority but the capacity. Sweden needs more rail. It's tight on the tracks. New main lines are needed, and more railway efforts are needed to ensure that space is available for long-distance trains, freight trains and commuter trains. After years of underinvestment, we are now making the biggest railway investment in modern times. Now we are investing in both railway maintenance and building new railways. This will also increase the possibility of improving commuting. Priority is of course important, but Sweden needs more rail. It's climate smart, and it's simple.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-434	Madam President, I would like Looks like there's a record number of shootings this year. This compares with already high levels from the previous year. What's worse, it's record-breaking shootings leading to prosecution and conviction. The Cold Facts program stated this week that not a single gang-related murder in Malmö has been cleared up since 2015. This is because the government has allowed development to go so far that gangs manage to scare entire communities into silence. Later on in the part of the Cold Facts, we were told by the Minister of the Interior that the Government intends to come forward with a proposal that is now under investigation, namely the Crown Witness System. In the same investigation, the question of giving an anonymous witness in court is also raised. My question goes to Minister Isabella Lövin: Can the government give the same clear information that the government intends to go ahead with and introduce the possibility to testify anonymously in court so that the public can stand up as witnesses against the gangs without having to do so with their own and close lives as an effort?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-438	Madam President, I would like I thank Adam Marttinen for the question. There is absolutely no doubt that there is a major problem with gang crime, killings and explosions. The government takes this issue very seriously. We have adopted a 34-point programme with a wide range of points to tighten the penalties, to provide greater opportunities for police and prosecution services and to prevent gang crime. When it comes to how these criminals are to be convicted, legal certainty is extremely important. That's why we set up the investigation. In the case of anonymous witnesses, it is also important that an anonymous witness cannot be identified in such a way as to threaten legal certainty. This is something the government needs to take a stand on.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-442	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. At the last meeting of the Social Security Committee, Minister Shekarabi announced that people on sick leave who were to be tried against the entire labour market at day 180 should now be tested against the labour market at day 365. If this is not possible, they should be tested against the labour market at day 550. Have the costs of proposing such changes been reviewed for employers and governments?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-445	Madam President, I would like It is a proposal that is examined, referred and ready for decision. As with a regular processing process, this proposal has been drawn up and, of course, it is also cost-estimated. It is extremely important that we can make these changes. Today, a person who has good opportunities to return to his or her regular employer, and undergo rehabilitation, is placed in an unreasonable position, instead of being insured. It's not a reasonable situation. Here we need to increase the opportunities for people to come back to their regular jobs. This applies not least now, when we see how health professionals who got sick in Corona are on their way to rehabilitation and can come back instead to be insured out. It is just one example of how lightning has shown how health insurance that was created by the Moderates does not work in practice.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-447	Madam President, I would like Last week, the government announced its intention to amend a decree to the Migration Agency concerning the Temporary Upper Secondary Education Act. The Government wants to run over the Migration Agency's practice for what should count as permanent work and change it from two years to one year. Madam President, I would like This means that only one year's employment is required for persons without protection to be given priority to permanent residence permits. We in the Swedish Democrats have been involved in gathering a majority in the Social Security Committee to announce to the government that this amendment must be stopped. Everything suggests that there will be a majority in favour of the committee's proposal in the House later today. My question to Minister Lövin is quite simple. Does the government intend to comply with the Riksdag's announcement, or does it intend to proceed with the amended regulation anyway?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-451	Madam President, I would like I can only regret that the Swedish Democrats, together with bourgeois parties, have gathered a majority for this. This makes it impossible for the young people who came here in 2015, who have attended high school in Sweden and learned Swedish and who want to get a job here, contribute to welfare and build up Sweden. They are also affected by the pandemic, as those who understand it will be at least twice as difficult to get a job during this time. I also regret that the Centre Party abstained on this issue. The Government is waiting for Parliament to deal with the matter. That is the message I can give today. I very much regret the Parliament's position, but we await Parliament's handling.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-454	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Government, the members of the Committee on Culture and the Committee's secretariat for their constructive cooperation during a very difficult period. I would also like to thank you for all constructive discussions with the industry by industry and with association after association, as well as with companies, writers, journalists, technicians, actors, directors and many others. Thank you to those of you who, despite an almost impossible situation, have managed to keep the business on its feet! We know that many have been forced to give up. Sometimes it has been because we in politics may not have been quick and creative enough. We have not always been able to resolve the inherent contradictions that sometimes exist or the difficulties that may arise in trying to combine complex systems in a pandemic that we do not know how long it lasts and how it works. Today this morning we have received some statistics from SCB showing that culture, entertainment and leisure have decreased by 8 billion during the first nine months of the year. Over the same period, the number of employed persons in that sector has fallen by 10 per cent. Madam President, I would like In budgetary debates, it is a little bit in the format that we should beat our chests and say that our alternative is right, that we have thought correctly and that the others are wrong. However, I think that there is reason for all of us to be rather humble in this situation. The issues that the Committee on Culture has to deal with have been particularly vulnerable in the pandemic. Culture has had to cancel and reschedule, and many have not been able to meet audiences for months– sometimes after years of preparation. Bookstore, libraries have had fewer visitors. Theatres and concert halls are closed. The Scouts have not been able to sell grilled sausages on walborgsmässoafton, and the Lions flea market has had to be cancelled. Newspapers have gained a boost in importance and the number of inquisitive website visitors but lost advertising revenue. Large sporting events have had to be changed, and marathons have had to be carried out digitally. Study circles have not been able to be completed as intended. Madam President, I would like I believe that many who have not done so in the past have now seen how central this area is to society and to us as individuals. In a pandemic, many of the really big questions are posed about society and about us as people and people. It is a time where culture may be needed more than ever. We would really need more places to gather to talk to each other. But we can't, because we're not going to spread the infection. We would really like to have more matches, more performances, more cinemas, more exhibitions and more concerts to together for a short while forget the inconveniences we face in everyday life. But we can't, because we don't want to infect the risk groups. We would need writers' talks and philosophical discussions about books, thoughts and theatre plays, but it is not possible, most of the time we have to cancel. And in these times of crisis, we would need more sport, movement, outdoor life and culture, but that is not possible because of the pandemic. Instead of switching up and taking a step forward, one has had to step back and set up because of the Corona virus. Many have seen their revenues disappear, many have seen their jobs go down, and many have had to close their businesses and claim them out of business. It's an incredibly difficult time we're going through. If any good has come out of this, I hope it is that more people have realised how important this sector is for society, for people and for us people in our growth and our understanding of ourselves, and that they also draw conclusions and are prepared to act on the basis of that understanding. This also applies, of course, to the education of the people. I would say that education is perhaps more important than ever in the situation where we are now. We also know that many have used the questions people have to spread conspiracy theories when they really need to spread education and knowledge. Madam President, I would like During this year, the Liberals and the Center Party, together with the government, have presented a wide range of urgent support. It has been necessary and important, and for me it has been obvious to do so. At the same time, it must be recognised that it is difficult to design aid properly in such a situation. But you have to be honest and say it's not that simple. We did not know from the outset how long the pandemic would last, and we still do not know. We do not know how it will spread, exactly who will be affected or which regions would be most harmed. In the beginning, it was quite easy to see that it was reasonable, for example, to provide support for lost revenue, but the longer it goes on, the fewer it is that loses revenue, because they have no longer planned anything that generates revenue. We're running out of revenue losses, so to speak. This means that other ways must be found to support those affected by the pandemic – some form of fictitious loss or to think about which infrastructures absolutely cannot be lost. I will admit that we have certainly made a lot of mistakes in the cooperation on emergency budget support. We obviously missed a lot of groups in the first support, and sometimes it has been too long before the support has been put in place. It has not been due to lack of interest but more to the fact that we did not know what the pandemic looked like, how it would affect Sweden and how it would affect the cultural sector, the sports sector and civil society. Sometimes politics is quite difficult. I think you have to be humble and realize it. We have learned from the mistakes we have made and made changes when the mistakes have become visible. Those who have not previously been included in the government rolls as beneficiaries have been particularly difficult to reach, at least in the first rounds. During the pandemic, it has become quite clear and sometimes almost brutally clear that social security systems and the business environment are not adapted to the specific circumstances of this sector. That is something we must take with us and learn from. We do not know today what the long-term consequences of the pandemic are. We must be prepared to remain active in our support. Madam President, I would like In several extra budgets, the Liberals, the Center Party and the government have deployed support for culture, the media and civil society, and in the budget for 2021 we continue. 1 billion will be allocated in 2021 for the conversion and re-launch of cultural activities throughout the country, where regional culture will receive permanent reinforcement. To strengthen the conditions for cultural creators, SEK 80 million will be allocated annually from 2021 onwards. The museums get more money. 50 million goes to increased public art purchases to strengthen the position of artists. The Jewish Museum will receive 2 million a year from next year. Form/Design Center in Malmö receives 3 million. The state contribution to the cultural school doubles. Creation school will be added SEK 25 million annually during 2021 – 2023. These are some of the things we do in this budget. Madam President, I would like It's a long line of bets we make. They are good, they are important and they are real, but we could certainly do something different or even better. However, there is one thing in this budget that I am particularly pleased about, and that concerns spending on reading. I am becoming increasingly convinced of how crucial it is to get more people to read. That's true at any age. We need more than ever to train our ability to read and reveal. We need more than ever the ability to think abstractly and put ourselves into the situation of other people and how they live their lives. We need more than ever to train our ability to think for ourselves. To quote the recently deceased literary scientist Harold Bloom, should the individual be able to maintain the ability to form his own opinions and judgments, it is not without importance that he continues to read on his own. That is why I am particularly pleased with the efforts we are making on reading in the budget. The reading delegation's proposals will be implemented. Book start is being expanded. We're strengthening the libraries. We'll spend more money on reading. A reading-promoting boost for public librarians is introduced. A reading council is set up. Investing in students' reading skills. Madam President, I would like This is very good. 2020 has been a year of trials for culture, the media and civil society. Many have been hit very hard, and many have gone very badly. It has made great demands on us politicians, and I believe that 2021 will make even greater demands on us, because we need to get a fresh start in these sectors. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-480	Madam President, I would like It is as the Italian author Silvia Avallone describes it: ..................................................... Never in modern times have we read so many obituaries in the newspapers. Streets and neighborhoods that have previously been full of people look absolutely desolate. We who can isolate ourselves at home, without the opportunity to receive guests or visitors. All places that represent life, freedom, conversation and meetings are now closed. The year 2020 is the year when cinemas, theatres, sports halls, cultural centres, libraries, museums, galleries, concert halls, amusement parks and other institutions have had to cancel and shut down in order to provide protection – protection for all elderly people and for all those with compromised immune systems and to assist those who are working for long shifts in hospitals. Human meetings have suddenly become a danger to life and health. And everything that gives meaning to a life is set on pause. As yet, no one knows the extent of the pandemic's aftermath, not everything now that the spread of infection is again increasing in the world and here at home in Sweden. Earlier this autumn we could see a recovery, but the increased spread of infection now has a clearly dampening effect on the economy. Our priority is to protect life and health, but at the same time the economic consequences have become apparent. So far, the government and support parties have decided on over 200 billion in aid to protect businesses, jobs, life and health. In addition, there will be additional guarantees and liquidity enhancements of hundreds of billions. Crisis packages are unprecedented in scale but also in speed. And they have made a difference, especially for the industries and activities included in the ecosystems of culture, sport and civil society, which would otherwise have risked being knocked out in their entirety. Already in our country the government launched one and the cooperation parties a crisis support for culture and sport of SEK 1 billion. Since then, we have decided on emergency support for civil society of 500 million and an additional 500 million for the medium- to medium-term sector, as well as covering the loss of income from the state and regional cultural institutions. Madam President, I would like If, last spring, we had no idea of the long-term effects of the pandemic, we know better now. The vulnerability and vulnerability of the sector in the pandemic has been at the heart of the cultural budget that is the subject of today's debate. It is a historic cultural budget of an additional SEK 3.4 billion to Sweden's cultural life, and behind it is a serious and purposeful work by the government and the cooperation parties. Our common priority has been to cover as far as possible for loss of income, to strengthen the security of art and cultural creators and to guarantee support and compensation for activities. That is why we have introduced a new crisis aid of 1.5 billion for cultural life and 1 billion for sport for this autumn. In addition to this, we have allocated 1 extra billion to 2021. We know that a restart takes time and requires targeted resources. As a result, Sweden will have the most generous crisis support in the Nordic region for the cultural sector. However, in view of the evolution of the pandemic, we are also prepared to take further action. Madam President, I would like For us social democrats, it is important that there is access to culture, meeting places, sport and education throughout the country and that cultural inequality is repressed. Early efforts with a focus on language, reading, music and aesthetics should reach children and young people. The opportunity for cultural experiences, education and a deeper understanding of the society in which you live and work should each have a right to. This is precisely why we are making further investments in regional culture through the collaborative model. For 2021, this means a reinforcement of 300 million, and for 2022 it means a reinforcement of 150 million. We are doubling state support to the cultural school to 200 million in order to continue to broaden and deepen the supply and thus the opportunity to reach more young people. We also implement the Reading delegation's proposals and extend the efforts to strengthen libraries. In 2020, SEK 55 million will be allocated to Book Start for children's language and reading development. We introduce a reading promotion lift for librarians and set up a national reading council. In addition, SEK 150 million is allocated to public libraries. We will also reinforce Creative School. But one of the most important investments in this budget is about the security of art and culture creators. The government and the cooperation parties are investing 80 million permanently in the conditions of cultural creators. This means that scholarships and compensations will increase by 43 million, that the Swedish Arts Council's support for free groups and organisers will be increased by 16 million SEK, that free actors in the image and form area will be awarded an additional 6 million SEK and that the centre will receive 5 million SEK and the performing arts alliances will receive 10 million SEK. Art life has been hit hard during the crisis. Cancelled exhibitions and fairs have made it difficult for artists to reach their audience. As a result, sales have also decreased, resulting in a loss of revenue for many artists. Moderna Museet and the Swedish Arts Council will therefore receive an additional SEK 25 million each for the purpose of investing in Swedish art life in 2021. We also carry out efforts to strengthen the Swedish cultural heritage. We contribute SEK 28 million for 2020 to several state museums and an extra SEK 25 million to the Nordic Museum, Skansen, Technical Museum and Work Museum. Madam President, I would like In connection with the examination of this autumn proposal, we also intend to call for amendments to the law on the financing of public service broadcasting. The Government proposes that the public service fee be reduced. In Kammarkollegiet's reporting it appears that at the end of the year there will be a relatively large surplus in the public service account. Therefore, this adjustment is needed. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to express concern and indeed surprise. When I read KD's and S D's budgets on culture and education, I wonder a little if we live in the same reality. At a time when the sector is going through its most difficult test ever, these parties are proposing extreme reductions for large parts of culture and civilisation. The Swedish democrats are also proposing major reductions for peoples' education. Efforts that are necessary to strengthen culture and sport's own ecosystems are largely lacking in the Swedish Democrats' and Swedish Democrats' budget movements. Madam President, I would like The government and the cooperation parties will continue their efforts to assist the sector until it is again possible to open up to public activities. I am very proud of the cultural budget agreed between the government and the cooperation parties. But I am also extremely humbled by the fact that there are still major challenges. We will continue to fight for a strong culture and culture, so that we can once again devote ourselves to what gives meaning to life.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-494	Madam President, I would like I just want to make it clear that we have the same framework in this area, but there is quite a difference between the appropriations. Then it's said. I would like to raise the issue of outdoor life, where for the second year in a row we are strengthening the government's budget, so to speak. If you start from it, we will add SEK 30 million extra. In 2021 it is the year of outdoor life. The government contributed 3 million last year. But this year, i.e. before 2021, there is no reinforcement for Friluftslivet's year. We all know that it is outdoor life that has increased significantly during the pandemic. People have felt secure in being able to go into the forest. People who have never been on a hiking trail have done so. There was a queue up on the mountain this summer. This is incredibly pleasing, but it also makes demands. I heard that the Sörmlandsleden has never picked as many cigarette butts and snusbuses as this year. Ideal activities can do this to some extent, but there is also a need to strengthen a lot on these leads. I am surprised that the government has not contributed this extra money, especially to the coming years when it is the year of outdoor life that we have known for a very long time. So my question is: Why hasn't the government added more money to Swedish Outdoor Life?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-499	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for the question! I agree that outdoor life has really been boosted this year. I also found my way out to the fantastic mountains in a completely different way this year than before. I share Lotta Finstorp's idea that we need to invest more in outdoor life, but in the year that we have soon left behind, major priorities need to be set. I hope that we will be able to come back and see that, in this area too, efforts will be made in the future.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-501	Madam President, I would like I just have a brief supplementary question. I know that Swedish Outdoor Life is incredibly worried about what to do in 2021. Does the honourable Member think that there is an opportunity to somehow raise more money to celebrate Friluftsliv's year 2021?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-502	Madam President, I would like The government is constantly reviewing the reinforcements that need to be made. What we have shown over the past year is that we are fairly fast-footed. When reinforcements have been needed, they have returned and done so. There will be reinforcements in this area if we see that there is room for it. I hope we can see it, but I can't say more than that.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-503	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by correcting a view expressed by the Social Democrats about our view of peoples' education. I would like to say in principle: the concept of population formation cannot be squeezed into a specific table of appropriations in Category 17, in which different parties in this House set different priorities from year to year. We add funds to different parts. Our downgrading of the population is no greater than before. It is also the case that we have followed with several of the additional support that has been needed. We are not following in the government's unwarranted millions roll, especially in a situation where we are experiencing shortcomings in scrutiny, supervision, application and achievement of objectives, as we have heard the Folkbildningsrådet express itself only this week in the Committee on Culture. That is why we cannot continue to provide funds. When anti-democratic contributors have penetrated a subsidy system, the handbrake must be pulled. An uncritical increase in funding must not take place until a new order is in place, I mean – especially if one of the four aims, namely the aim of democracy, is actively opposed by these actors who are directly anti-democratic. The vast majority of the basic allocation is still included in our budget for the broad part and in the constructive formation of people. But with the self-management model, it is also difficult to say how much money would have to be withdrawn. I believe that funds are needed for fantastic folk high schools and well-functioning study associations that do constructive work. My question is why the Social Democrats are not prepared to give this a critical thought so that the aim of democracy can rather be strengthened.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-508	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Aron Emilsson, for the question! There is no contradiction between protecting culture and peoples' education and, at the same time, believing that there is a need to examine, criticise and propose improvements where necessary. We Social Democrats know the art of doing both. However, I do not understand the Swedish Democrats. You seem to mix these things up. In the midst of an ongoing coronapandemia when Sweden's performing arts were most affected, the Swedish Democrats choose to withdraw 16 million from the performing arts. There are 16 million from the theatre, the dance and the music, 30 million from the literature and magazines, 6 million from the field of images and form, 133 million from those most affected, i.e. the artists, and so on. That's how we get to public education. Here the Swedish Democrats deduct 1 billion from activities that promote culture and education. I am interested to hear Aron Emilsson tell us what ideological line is actually behind this widespread attack on culture and education.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-512	Madam President, I would like Our ideological line is that the cultural area needs reinforcement, and that is why our framework is 300 million kronor higher than the government. I think it is important to mention this in this context. The Swedish Democrats are investing a billion in several other areas in new funding where resources are needed. These are, of course, needs that are invoked by actors in cultural life and by the public who want to prioritise them. But this is constantly ignored by the Social Democrats. Re-allocations will have to be made in the area of expenditure, but the redeployments that are being pointed out are very small in general and no dramatic change. The Social Democrats have been exercising about introducing production incentives for films that would benefit the Swedish film industry. They have therefore exercised about it in the Riksdag but choose not to follow it up in the budget. I would therefore like to hear what the Social Democrats' justification for this is. There is, of course, an opportunity to launch the 300 million SEK that the Swedish Democrats budget.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-515	Madam President, I would like For us social democrats, it is not a question of picking raisins out of the cake and just choosing the parts that are adapted to our ideological line in terms of what efforts are being made on culture. We believe in a strong Cultural Sweden, something that the Swedish Democrats do not believe in. I do not think anyone has missed the fact that in the last year we have had a pandemic that has required us to set priorities. Then perhaps the incentive for production has not been what has been a real priority. It is, however, an issue to which we should certainly come back. I also note that Mr Emilsson avoided answering my question. Perhaps he does not want to expose the ideological ambitions of the Swedish democrats for a weakened Cultural Sweden and a society where the formation is seen as a threat to the radical conservative ideas that the Swedish democrats are pushing and who want to weaken democracy.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-518	Madam President, I would like We are now in the time to prepare for Christmas. At school, rehearsals for the Lucia celebration with the parents would now be in full swing. But this year it's different. There will be no lucia celebration for the parents at school. The church's Advent concert is cancelled, so also the concert with a Christmas theme on the main stage as well as in the district garden. It is in culture and free society that we have the opportunity to understand ourselves and others better. We can also develop through meetings with the unexpected. We can have different perspectives on our life and society. The importance of this is also evident now under the coronapndemine. A great commitment and great creativity have been shown to reach out with culture despite the difficult conditions. This is happening because we humans need cultural experiences. Culture has its own value, but it also contributes to so much more. It is therefore important to promote a broad cultural life throughout the country that everyone can enjoy, where new digital cultural expressions and multiculturalism work side by side with traditional cultural forms and where cultural and creative industries are well placed to operate. Culture and the cultural industry are now in a deep crisis. The pandemic and the strict restrictions it has imposed have hit hard not least on the free culture and culture that have previously survived without major public support and subsidies. I'm talking about concert activities with popular music, dance events, private theatres, festivals, circuses, cinemas and amusement parks, to name but a few examples of live cultural expressions that have been around all over our country – I'm saying a lot, because now it's quiet and closed. The Center Party, together with the Liberals and the Government, has been involved in pushing through several additional budgets during the year. Not least, it is support for individual cultural actors who have been in focus for us. Then it has also been about support for businesses and individual traders, because we know that many people in the cultural field are just individual entrepreneurs and freelancers. Major efforts have been made, but they are far from sufficient. For example, the Swedish Arts Council has received 2,200 applications for cancellations during the summer, with a total amount applied for of over SEK 1.8 billion. The Swedish Arts Council's 400 million will not be enough. Many organizers will not get even half or a quarter of what they need. The risk of bankruptcy in the industry is now imminent. Summer is too many the time of year when you deliver and get revenue that keeps the business going for the rest of the year and that provides resources for next summer's events and concerts. Now also the winter and Christmas concerts and events disappear. This will affect the culture and supply in Sweden for a very long time to come. This year's lost revenue risks not only making next year empty on concerts and cultural experiences; it will affect for a long time to come. Although we may have hopes of being able to open up to larger audiences sometime next year, there is still a great risk that there is no one left who can open the doors to the amusement park or theatre salon or who can invite to a concert or dance event. It is also not possible to quickly create events, stage performances and concerts. It is an activity with long lead times and with great uncertainty not least economically before everything is in place and the gates can be opened. We must take this with us when deciding on future aid. What we are now seeing is an ecosystem that is severely affected and where we are losing many important and knowledgeable actors. Now the focus must be on saving an industry that is in a difficult crisis and developing support aimed at being able to reopen when that day comes. The ecosystem must remain in place. That is why we also need a more predictable and clear pandemic law, something for which the Center Party has been out early demanding and working. Then we want to see a pandemic law based on the possibilities of different activities to avoid congestion. If a shopping mall is to have thousands of visitors, it must also be possible to open theatres, sports events and amusement parks. Of course, they should do so in the context of proper measures to limit the infection. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to highlight the importance of sport and the life of associations getting through the pandemic without being beaten to pieces. The pandemic risks leading to the loss of an entire generation in Sports Sweden. Public health as a whole is also under threat. We know that major sports events, such as Vasaloppet, Lidingöloppet and Vätternrundan, as well as orienteering competitions and other sports events of different nature and size are important for public health in Sweden. Many of the organisations and associations organising these events have also drawn attention to this in various ways, including in a debate article just a few days ago. Again, we need a modified pandemic law in the way that the Center Party has pushed for, so that corona-proof outdoor activities can be allowed. The economic conditions have obviously deteriorated for sports associations when it is not possible to earn income by arranging race and exercise races or being able to receive audiences at matches and other events. If we cannot face these threats to sport and society, not least the economic threats, we are in danger of having even fewer people today who are able to participate in a living sport and association life. There are more people who need this opportunity, not fewer. This is particularly true of children and young people. However, it is far from all children and young people who have the opportunity to participate in the sports that exist in the area or in the sport that they are passionate about. Not least, I am thinking of children and young people with disabilities, who find it difficult to find suitable sports activities. In fact, parasporten can be a route to physical activity. But if you have a disability, there are often many obstacles before you can participate at all. Here, broad and more efforts need to be made. Mr President, I would like to We can see that the coronapandemy has a major impact on sport and cultural life, as well as on civil society as a whole. These are effects that are likely to have long-term consequences. For example, the situation has become very difficult for many of those working in the cultural sector. It also affects very much all the people who during this time are missing out on all these cultural experiences. Culture can benefit from several support packages during the year with the aim of reducing the effects of the coronapandemia. These support is necessary to provide better conditions for a broad and accessible cultural life throughout the country. But more is needed and fast. Civil society associations and organisations are often the fastest in place when needs and organised cooperation between people arise. It has become clear not least during the Corona crisis, with efforts to help and support people at risk. Every person must be able to contribute according to ability and be able to participate in society. It is therefore important to allocate support to civil society so that more people can participate. This needs to be followed up in order to see the impact of support and what is needed in the future to ensure a viable cultural life and a strong civil society including sports and outdoor life throughout the country. Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to wish the President and my committee colleagues a really merry Christmas.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-541	Mr President, I would like to These are coronatides, and the Environmental Party's representative in the Culture Committee, Anna Sibinska, has cold symptoms and stays at home to reduce the spread of infection. That is why I am here in her place, and it is her speech that I shall deliver. The year 2020 is coming to an end, the year when life changed radically when the pandemic crippled Sweden, Europe and the world. What we took for granted only a year ago – to go to a theatre and a Christmas concert, to see a dance performance or a musical – is impossible today because of covid-19. Cultural life has suffered badly in the pandemic. Organizers have postponed their plans several times, freelancers have seen their revenues disappear from one day to another and several life's works have been destroyed. Several rich cultural scenes in our country have had to cancel operations, lay off staff and, at worst, have had to close down. In order for culture to overcome the crisis, the government, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, came first with a support package in the spring. The autumn budget then presented a historic commitment to culture, and that is what we are debating in this House today. Never has such a comprehensive cultural package been launched. Among other things, the backbone of Sweden's cultural life – the regional infrastructure with its diversity of museums, theatres, performing arts institutions, libraries, archives and free groups – receives an additional SEK 300 million through the cultural collaboration model. The free cultural creators, who contribute aesthetics and drive social development through new perspectives on what it really means to be human, also receive support. We invest SEK 80 million in a strengthened artist policy, where strengthened remuneration and scholarships form the main pillar. To give all children and young people the opportunity to meet culture already in school, we invest SEK 25 million in a strengthened Creative School and SEK 230 million in reading promotion efforts to strengthen children's reading ability and interest in literature. In addition, we double support for the cultural school, from SEK 100 million to SEK 200 million per year, so that more young people can stand on stage and learn to sing, dance and play an instrument. Strong cultural schools provide strong communities. Here I want to leave my script and say something based on my own role as a former member of the Cultural Board in Sweden's largest municipality of Stockholm. There we have long been very proud to run Europe's, and perhaps even the world's, largest cultural school with 17 000 − 18 000 pupils and 300 − 400 educators. I have seen these students grow through culture and see how they rejoice in culture. This money has certainly been useful. But it is perhaps not especially in Stockholm but in the cultural schools all over the country that this money is very useful. And I'm very happy that we can double this extra support. Mr President, I would like to It is obvious for us environmentalists to prioritise culture more than ever in one of the greatest trials our society has had to go through. Our spokesmen put it this way: We cannot sacrifice what makes us human when we need it the most. It has been our green attitude since the outbreak of the pandemic, and it will be our attitude until it is over. Unfortunately, the spread of infection is increasing again; it is sad news. We all have fresh memories of what happened last spring when the whole of Swedish society had gathered together to limit the spread of the disease covid-19. Nevertheless, many have fallen ill and thousands have died. It is a personal tragedy for everyone who has been affected. We will be living with this pandemic for a long time, and now we all need to help keep the infection down and respect the restrictions imposed. Unfortunately, this means that culture does not have the necessary breathing space after a long time with limited, or perhaps even no, activities. It pains and hurts to see how many cultural actors who have prepared carefully to carry out an infectious activity now again have to shrivel their plans. Mr President, I would like to What has become apparent in this crisis is that freelance artists and artists with an individual firm, who have already had difficulty taking part in our security systems, have now got even tougher. Many have low and uneven incomes and live from missions to missions with very small margins. Although they are active and well established in the cultural labour market, they are affected. It is crucial that cultural creators and artists can work under reasonable economic and social conditions – of course for the sake of the operators themselves, but also for people to dare to go to these professions, to the cultural sector, so that we have a broad, vibrant and multifaceted cultural life throughout the country. Therefore, SEK 80 million will be allocated permanently from 2021 to strengthen the conditions for cultural creators. The free art package is distributed so that scholarships and compensations increase by 43 million, the Swedish Arts Council's support for free groups and organisers is strengthened by 16 million and free actors in the image and form area are awarded an additional 6 million SEK. And in order to strengthen artists' opportunities in the labour market, the Centres provide 5 million and the performing arts alliances 10 million SEK. This is part of the greater effort to strengthen the conditions for artists and cultural creators. The government will come back next year with more proposals to further strengthen the artists' conditions, collected in an artist's political letter based on the artist's political investigation, which came in 2018. A nation with high ambitions for cultural policy cannot be content with introducing emergency aid. The cultural sector should not only survive; it also needs incentives to develop and grow. We see this with an extra incentive billion in 2021 to give cultural life – institutions, organizers and other cultural actors – a fresh start. We hope, of course, that the vaccine and a smaller spread of infection in society can speed up the process of re-opening culture. With this hope, Mr President, I call for the proposal of the Committee on Culture to be approved in the report.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-554	Mr President, I would like to Art and culture tell us what it is to be human. Culture puts a critical eye on our existence. It brings us joy and is a comfort in difficult times. It makes our world bigger. Culture is therefore important for the advancement of our society as a whole. But culture is affected and has been hit very hard by the pandemic. The basic idea of culture is often about people meeting and exchanging thoughts, ideas and aesthetic experiences – simply experiencing things together. But people can't meet in larger company right now. The government has taken far-reaching measures to meet the pandemic that is now twitching and tearing our societies, measures that are unprecedented in our country. This is necessary because it is about protecting people's lives and health. But politics also has a significant responsibility to support culture through the crisis – to support all those who create culture, who are involved in the production of culture and who arrange culture in our country. Politics also has a responsibility to support culture during its forthcoming re-launch. There are a great many of us who have felt how empty it has become now that the culture has quieted down. That's not how it's supposed to be. Sweden should be a cultural nation even after the crisis. Mr President, I would like to On March 20 this year, a few days after the Swedish Public Health Agency announced that we had a general distribution of the coronavirus, I was able to present a first support package for culture and sport of SEK 1 billion. Since then, several additional support packages have been presented. Money has been decided for the free cultural life, individual artists and creators of culture, performing arts institutions, film and regional cultural life. A total of SEK 1 1⁄2 billion has been decided in crisis support for sport for 2020 and of SEK 2 1⁄2 billion for culture, which is currently being fully allocated. The government has also taken decisions on comprehensive general crisis measures, such as short-term lay-offs, relief in the unemployment fund, deferred payments of tax and VAT, support for businesses and individual traders, and much more. This is aid which, of course, is also intended for companies in the cultural sector. Now we stand here in December. Winter darkness has fallen over the country and also over cultural life. Further restrictions have been imposed on us and we are seeing further spread of infection in our country. But just as deep, acute and at what the crisis is, my determination and that of the government is to do what is necessary to protect cultural life during the crisis and to contribute to its re-launch once the crisis subsides. Mr President, I would like to When I presented the budget proposal in September, I was able to describe a very large package of support and encouragement for cultural life. In addition to pure crisis support, EUR 1.8 billion was added to the culture for 2021, which, by summarising, means EUR 3.4 billion extra to the culture of 2020 and 2021. This, of course, is about urgent crisis measures – providing our institutions, stakeholders and individual support here and now. But it is also about looking forward. For 2021, therefore, another additional billion will be added to cultural life, not only to support it through the crisis but also to enable its recovery and relaunch. The regional culture is our theatres, concert halls, libraries, archives, museums, picture and design actors and much more. It's the backbone, the base, throughout our country's cultural life. That is why this budget reinforces the model of cultural cooperation by channelling 300 extra million to the regions for more culture to more, 150 million of which are permanent resources – a much-needed increase. Mr President, I would like to Every culture nation must take care of its artists and cultural creators. The free cultural creators are society's innovators and, sometimes, provocateurs. They give us ideas, insights and insights and set our eyes on both the skeweds of life and its beauties. The issue of artists' conditions is therefore a matter for our whole society. The Government invests SEK 80 million per year in a strengthened artist policy, where strengthened support, compensation and scholarships are at the core. This is also a permanent reinforcement. Social conditions must be strengthened. Even artists should be able to get sick or dare to invest in parenthood without their livelihood being thrown all the way over. This is where we have to get back to work. Contemporary art should be visible in our society. When viewed by posterity, history should not be written as saving up on art during the crisis. Instead, we are increasing investment in it. Moderna Museet and the Swedish Arts Council will receive an additional SEK 25 million each, together with the assignment to invest in Swedish art life in 2021. This gives the public space color and life. But it also gives artists an opportunity to strengthen the labour market. Mr President, I would like to Early in life, all children and young people should be given the opportunity to become acquainted with art and culture. This lays the foundation for young people's aesthetic and intellectual development throughout their lives and gives them joy, stimulation and opportunity to express themselves. Culture should be present at school. The government doubles state support for the cultural school, strengthens the Creative School and carries out a series of efforts to increase the promotion of reading in school. These are actions that are particularly important now, when the pandemic makes it much more difficult for many young people to both create and experience culture. Mr President, I would like to In difficult times, it is often voluntary forces that carry democracy. This was when democracy broke through in Sweden, and it applies when we are going to preserve and develop it a century later. The Corona crisis has posed major challenges for civil society, our non-profit associations and religious communities, while demonstrating their importance. While society is a cornerstone of democratic society, it is currently making important efforts for people affected by the pandemic. In order to strengthen civil society's work and contribute to recovery, we are also extending the 2020 initiatives until 2021. This includes SEK 50 million for children's and young people's organisations, SEK 70 million for public gatherings, SEK 25 million for the Church of Sweden and SEK 25 million for other state-subsidised faiths. Mr President, I would like to The Coronapandemia risks having major consequences for public health, not only because of the spread of a dangerous disease, but also because it has reduced the opportunities for training, competition and community in our largest peoples' movement – sport. The sports movement is doing a fantastic job of keeping activities open to children and young people so that, as far as possible, they can safely continue to engage in sport during the pandemic. But sport has been severely affected by the pandemic, as have many other activities that depend on people meeting. From the outbreak of the pandemic, I have made it clear that sport will be able to cope with the crisis. In 2020, therefore, we have almost doubled state support for sport. The National Sports Federation has signalled that there will also be a need for support in the future, and I take this very seriously. We have a strong sports movement in Sweden, which plays a major role in people's lives and for children's health. We need that even after the Corona. Mr President, I would like to The Culture Budget for 2021 is by far the largest ever. But it is not the case that the big investment in culture is the result of the government increasing its spending in general. On the contrary – nor has the share of government spending on culture been this high in the past. This shows the great value that the government attaches to living cultural life. There has been a great deal of support from the government, and when we put forward our proposals, the opposition has often supported them. I welcome the commitment to culture shown by many, including in this House, at this difficult moment. Mr President, I would like to No pandemic in the world can kill people's love and desire for culture and sport. Culture and sport will continue to exist even after the pandemic has dropped its grip on us. However, we should not underestimate the damage caused by the pandemic to cultural life and the sports sector. The crisis is tough for all of us to go through, and when we don't get to enjoy culture, art and sport together, life becomes even poorer. I look with great concern at what is happening now. That is why I have worked day and night since March to find different solutions. We have presented various support throughout the year. At the moment, more money is being allocated to free cultural life, and I see that more support will be needed. The government is also working on this. It's gonna take time, but we're gonna make it. Once the crisis is over, we can once again enjoy life as we feel it. One day we will be able to meet, gather and hug again and together enjoy music, art, theatre, cinema and sports competitions. We all yearn for it, and one day we will stand there. But until then, we must remain prepared to support the infrastructure for our cultural life and all those who create culture – without them we have no culture in this country. We must be sustainable, both government and municipalities, regions and anyone else who has the opportunity to contribute to this very difficult situation.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-582	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your speech. I can express some disappointment that the Minister has not been present during the debate. There may be some reason for this, but I am disappointed. I would like to ask the Minister about a proposal that we have in our policy; it is about something that we call the leisure card. I would like to hear the Minister's view on it. This is a card that each student in grades 2 - 9 receives. It's loaded with extracurricular activities. For example, you can pay a membership fee to leading associations and activities as well as to the cultural school. We produce this card because we believe that it can have an impact on young people when it comes to activating themselves in motion. We also believe that mental illness could be counteracted in this way by entering into contexts where one is seen and given a task. The card is charged with 500 SEK for each student. Then there is also a social aspect with people living with socio-economic concerns; there the card can be loaded with up to SEK 2,400, linked to social services and so on. We are spending 850 million on this. I would like to hear what the Minister is saying about the leisure card as a Christian Democratic idea.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-589	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with the very ideas behind the leisure card. I would say that the ideas behind this are legitimate. The Agency for Youth and Civil Society has also highlighted the need to find ways forward to reduce inequalities when it comes to participation in cultural, sports and leisure activities. The government has not taken a position on this concrete proposal. When we have made this budget – right when we are in the midst of the burning pandemic – the focus has been to find ways to quickly get out money and to make extensive use of the existing subsidies. When it comes to the Christian Democrats' draft budget, I must say that I am surprised. In the crisis that sweeps over not least the free cultural life, the sports movement and the actors who will create and provide all the leisure activities that children could participate in, the Christian Democrats choose to cut half a billion in crisis support even though we see that it has been heavily overexploited already for this year. We have also noted from the government that we will of course review the need for further support. Christian Democrats reduce funding for regional culture and the acquisition of art and reduce funding in support of artists, film support and more. I think it is a strange priority at this point in time when we have such an extremely difficult situation for the culture of our country.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-593	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with the leisure card. I am pleased with this response. We have previously debated something that we called leisure money. In those debates, the left side often spoke of the fact that instead of a leisure allowance aimed at children living in socio-economic vulnerability, they wanted the general welfare, as they so beautifully expressed it. It also meant missing a lot of people. The Minister used the expression. This is precisely what we are talking about. We have other priorities. It is about health care, it is about care for the elderly and it is about the judiciary. We feel that care for the elderly needs more money, and that is why we have made that priority. Health care, care for the elderly and the judiciary – hence this priority.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-596	Mr President, I would like to With regard to equal access to culture and sport, the government has also added to this draft budget to the cultural school and to the creative school. The major crisis support for sport this year – close to doubling the support – aims to provide children with recreational activities in the cultural and sports sector even after the crisis. I maintain that this is a rather strange priority in this situation, as the pandemic has hit these sectors so hard. If the Christian Democrats' budget were to become a reality, it would significantly hinder the re-launch of culture and sport.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-598	Mr President, I would like to The cultural environment section of the expenditure area, appropriations 7:1 – 7:4, is still without real enumerations and the necessary additions of funds, we believe. The needs are enormous. I find it strange that the government is not taking advantage of this opportunity to strengthen the collective cultural heritage assets when so many people in culture are out of work. My question to the Minister for Culture is: why does the government ignore this need every year, and why does it not take the opportunity during the pandemic to provide resources to achieve cultural conservation measures when there is a possibility of conversion, a lack of trained building carers, the need for training places, incentives for digitalisation and so on, and also a high level of unemployment? This can be done in terms of both simpler and more complex work to renovate, restore or, for that matter, digitise cultural heritage.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-601	Mr President, I would like to I agree that our cultural heritage is extremely important. There are things to do in cultural heritage policy, and the government has also done a great deal. In this budget too, there are efforts. We send funds to the National Archives, which have a very important role to play in the preservation of our archives and in making them available. We provide crisis support to both state and state-funded museums and to regional culture, which accounts for both the county museums and other cultural heritage activities. This is a pandemic that has hit not least the free cultural life very hard. It is clear that it is reflected in our budget that we want to support, for example, film production, live culture and individual artists. In the same way as I said to the Christian Democrats, I can say that I am surprised that the Swedish Democrats in this situation are choosing to withdraw. They choose to reduce support for artists by over 100 million and to dismantle museums that the Swedish Democrats do not think meet the ideological view that the Swedish Democrats want the museums to convey. The Swedish Democrats want to reduce support for artists by over 100 million and want to dismantle museums that they do not think meet the ideological view that they want the museums to convey. They want to reduce support for free performing arts actors, phase out Young Klara and reduce support for literature and cultural journals. Not to mention the drastic cuts they make to the education of the people, which performs such an important role for not least our cultural life and our educational activities throughout the country.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-606	Mr President, I would like to We can begin with the three points raised by the Minister. I visited the National Archives myself not long ago. According to the archive inquiry, the National Archives need more funds than those provided by the government to the agency. In our budget, we contribute more money to the National Archives to be able to carry out their mission in a good way. The archival tradition is fundamental to Swedish administrative culture but also in the challenges of the new era for information security, for example. I note that the government and the January parties once again reject our state fund to open museums throughout the country, regardless of their principal. They are again snowed in and focused on the few museums in Stockholm, to which we also provide funds. And you don't support the film by once again saying no to the production incentive of 300 million that the Swedish Democrats budget for. You promise around, but you keep thin.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-610	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased that we can now make a permanent addition to the National Archives. The need has been around for a long time, and we have the archive investigation that we're going to be working on. I think it is very important that we have a well-functioning archive operations in Sweden. The Swedish Democrats once again choose to avoid the fact that we are in a situation where free art is most affected. The Swedish Democrats then choose to cut the funding for artists, cut the subsidies for free groups and slaughter the education of the people. It is a remarkable priority in these times. As far as the film is concerned, we have made a significant contribution to film production through crisis support for this year. We're also looking at how we can work next year. It is about us getting money out in an efficient and good way as quickly as possible for the activities that need it. I think it is revealing how the Swedish Democrats in their budget once again want to let the ideological glasses govern culture and shape our society. It is also a feature of this budgetary exercise, and I regret that.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-614	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your speech. During the pandemic, it has become clear how cross-sectoral culture is. It goes into all the different pillars: care, school and care. This means that the support systems do not always fit in properly. I am very concerned that the ecosystem of culture is breaking down, simply cracking down. According to a study by the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce in September, unemployment in the cultural industry has increased by 80 percent since the pandemic started. Nevertheless, emergency aid only reaches about half of the victims due to complicated rules which are also not adapted to activities with uneven incomes, which are very common in the cultural sector. There are individuals in the cultural sector who have been living on or below the poverty line for almost nine months. And mental illness is increasing. What I often get questions about is small businesses in the cultural sector that might have had good income in 2019 and made a smaller dividend in March. Then they do not have the right to receive any support for the rest of the year. A proportionality assessment could be carried out on a case-by-case basis so that they might receive aid but less what they have actually taken out of their company. My question to the Minister is whether the government is discussing how to help them, because we have a great many small businesses in different forms of association in the cultural sector.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-619	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is exactly so, as Lotta Finstorp says, that our cultural sector is so diversified. It's wide and looks very different. That is why we need a variety of support measures. I am very pleased that we got in place the targeted support for individual traders and also that the government and the cooperation parties recently communicated that it was extended until the end of the year. The extension of short-term leave until the first half of next year is an important support, not least for the major players who are also employers in order to maintain skills within companies. In addition to this, we provide targeted support through the Swedish Arts Council. Now the first round is distributed for what is a crisis aid regulation. Next week, another 400 million will be allocated in targeted support for specific needs in the cultural sector. We have also supplemented all of this with crisis scholarships for artists, which will be particularly important. We've loosened the rules for the unemployment fund. But I know that there are still many who fall between the chairs, and of course that makes me very concerned. Several of the various subsidies are not the things that the Ministry of Culture is responsible for, but my colleagues in the government do. We obviously have a close dialogue. I am following developments, and we have always said that we are prepared to reconsider and adjust various aids. For example, it was important for culture that the turnover limit for self-employed support could be reduced from 200 to 180. However, there will continue to be a great need for targeted crisis grants and for additional support from the Culture Council, including support for cultural production. That is where culture differs in part. We want there to continue to be culture during the pandemic. We know that there are long lead times, and then there needs to be opportunities to start productions so that they can be launched once the audience situation allows.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-623	Mr President, I would like to Finland made an exception precisely for unemployment insurance funds for entrepreneurs from day one in March. I think it's important. Many of us have learned during the pandemic that there are so many small businesses in different forms of association that those working on labour market issues may not know about. I would like to take this opportunity to express my concern about the fraud of the study associations and the concern about trust in them. Then I have a question for the Minister, to whom there may not be an easy answer: how will trust in the study associations be able to come back again? We have recently heard so many reports about these frauds.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-626	Mr President, I would like to I think it is good that the Moderates so much in their budget exercise hook arms with the government and support our ambitious efforts on culture. I appreciate the fact that the opposition, not least the Moderates, has taken responsibility for culture during government crisis management. As far as support for peoples' education and civil society is concerned, I believe that we all have a responsibility. Of course, the actors who are misbehaving should not receive any support. Here we work with strengthened democracy conditions. We have also strengthened supervision here and now. But we must also remember that there is a very small proportion of the broad support that goes to civil society, so that we do not use this as a pretext to pull away the carpet for support to civil society. I regret that the Moderates are making such draconian cuts to the formation of the people, because the formation of people is important for our society, for education, for democracy and for our cultural life.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-628	Mr President, I would like to We were a little horrified in the Moderates when the Riksrevi Group's report on holding companies at universities and colleges came this spring. Therefore, the Moderates, together with the Christian Democrats, have four reservations. Of course, I'm behind all four, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation number one. The Swedish National Audit Office has produced an audit report called Holding Company at the higher education institutions – shortcomings in governance and administration, and only the name is a little worrying. The audit has been carried out by holding companies linked to universities and higher education institutions. There are currently 18 such holding companies, of which 17 are audited. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed how universities run their holding companies and found that shortcomings in governance mean that the companies are not run sufficiently commercially and efficiently. Holding companies have existed since the early 1990s. The decision was made in the Riksdag when Carl Bildt was Prime Minister and we had alliance rule – although it was not called the Alliance at the time. Holding companies came into being so that the knowledge developed in education and research would benefit society. The purpose of holding companies was also to support the flow of knowledge from research to industry by enabling universities to conduct commercial activities. This was important then and is at least as important now. Competition in higher education and research is fierce both nationally and internationally. The Moderates also want Sweden's higher education institutions to be of high quality and stand well in competition. Mr President, I would like to There are currently 18 holding companies linked to various universities in Sweden. The holding companies have been questioned on several occasions during the 00's and 10's. They have not been sufficiently professional and have also had to increase their interaction with the rest of society. They must keep up with the changes in society that are taking place, which unfortunately has not happened. Despite this previous knowledge, the Swedish National Audit Office's report contains stinging criticism of how the government has not controlled this. The teaching institutions have not been given the conditions for active and professional management of the holding companies. The Swedish National Audit Office has made a number of recommendations to both the Government and the audited universities. The majority in the Education Committee would like to await the preparation of the Government and add this to the documents. However, the Moderates and Christian Democrats believe that the shortcomings are so grave that we cannot wait for a preparation. In our follow-up motion, we point, among other things, to the Swedish National Audit Office's three clear recommendations. It is about clarifying which activities can be included in the holding companies' groups and certain liability issues. There are some questions here and there is a lack of coherence. It should also be investigated how the reporting chain between companies, higher education institutions and government can be developed in order to achieve an active and professional management of the companies. There are a lot of shortcomings in both reporting and evaluation. The teachers should not appoint the Vice-Chancellor or Vice-Chancellor as Chairman of the Board of Directors, but should appoint a Chairman with commercial competence. Today, half of the universities have the same person as the Vice-Chancellor and Chairman of the Board. The Moderates consider these two important missions to be completely different. While a Vice-Chancellor will be responsible for quality and educational development, a chairman of a holding company will work in business and work with company development. The Moderates and Christian Democrats point in their reservation to shortcomings that have long had to be corrected. The majority, however, would like to await an investigation. But we do not think that this can wait. To sum up: The government's governance of the higher education institutions shows major shortcomings and does not provide conditions for the higher education institutions for a professional management and progress goal. The universities do not have professional corporate management of the holding companies and over half lack both goals and strategies. This is extremely serious, because our universities and colleges are supposed to be Sweden's spearhead. The majority would like to await an investigation and consider whether measures should be taken to improve the holding companies' activities. But the Moderates and Christian Democrats do not want to wait, but believe that one must be active now. This should have been done a long time ago. I re-approve reservation number 1 of the Moderates and Christian Democrats.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-646	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is building its prosperity and high ambitions in terms of social development on the fact that we are competitive, not least in terms of knowledge and competence. In order for this to be possible in the future, the research breakthroughs that take place around our universities also need to be taken care of, i.e. useful. I would also like to say that the contradiction that sometimes prevails between needs-oriented, applied research on the one hand and free, curiosity-driven basic research on the other is quite destructive. Although it may be said that knowledge always has its own value, it seems strange not to promote the benefit of new knowledge. How this can happen is the very essence of what we are debating here today, i.e. the UbU6 report, which is based on the government's letter on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on holding companies at universities and colleges. My predecessor in the speaker's chair eminently described what a holding company is, so I don't think I need to repeat what it is – although it was rather strange to me that we were taking on this area. The Swedish National Audit Office criticises the government's way of managing holding companies and makes a number of recommendations. Criticism stems from and can be summarised as lack of follow-up, lack of clarity in areas of activity, lack of information transfer between holding companies, higher education institutions and government, lack of accountability and lack of continuous evaluation. Before I go into the Liberal position, I will also mention the special investigator appointed by the government in 2019 to propose a developed structure for innovation support at state universities and high schools. The results were presented in October under the name Innovation as the driving force – from research to use. Here, the Swedish National Audit Office's criticisms are raised and are noted on several points also in line with what has emerged during the investigation's work. However, it is all the more important that the investigation also proposes a number of measures to develop the governance and operations of holding companies. Mr President, I would like to It can be noted that the Swedish National Audit Office strongly criticises the Government for its actions or rather does not act as regards the holding companies of higher education institutions. In the Government's letter, the Government also points out that criticism in many areas is justified and points to a number of measures that will be implemented. We welcome this. Let me now turn my eyes to what the Liberals think the government overlooks in its response. It is a question of ensuring that higher education institutions assume their responsibilities. On this issue, we believe that the government needs to be clearer. If the application of the guidelines is flawed due to limited responsibility at higher education institutions, it needs to be addressed. This leads us to call for the Liberals' reservation, No. 4. Mr President, I would like to Otherwise, we believe that the study I have just mentioned and which has recently been presented has many interesting proposals that concern the Parliament at this time. It is a solid investigation, and its proposals need to be given the chance to be threshed through the administrative machinery. Our call to the government is to take care of this investigation as soon as possible and return to the Riksdag with strong proposals that will further address the problems that have emerged through the Swedish National Audit Office's review. Mr President, I would like to The benefits need to come faster in research. Our ability to create the conditions for innovation and take care of innovations will have a decisive impact on our country's future growth and prosperity. What we are debating here may seem like technicalities with little impact. I'd say the opposite. If we are to be a successful research nation in the future, this is fundamental.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-658	Mr President, I would like to We stand here today to examine the Government's letter in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's review of holding companies, as has been mentioned earlier. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the governance and operations of 17 of the 18 holding companies we have linked to different universities. It has views on the organisation, responsibility, management and follow-up. The Government replied to this in a letter. Very little was mentioned about it from the speaker's seat just now. The government is very clear in its letter that it agrees with much of the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism. Steps have also been taken to develop governance. New guidelines have been adopted for the management of holding companies that clarify the governance and reporting chain. They were adopted on 30 April this year. A special investigator has been appointed – already in October 2019 – to propose and develop structures for holding companies. He made his proposals now in October. It is quite important that we have the democratic order that an investigation that you want to do something about should go on a consultation round so that people can give their views. Of course it's happening. That is why it cannot be said that we should do something about this at once today. People want to like the suggestions that exist. It is important that we allow democracy to take its course and that the proposal be consulted. It is when the consultation bodies have thought that they are working together to see what we should do to change this. I think that's important. I would understand the outrage that I heard from the speaker's seat if Members had asked a lot of questions, said a lot of things in interpellations and so on and been rejected and the government said: This is not necessary. But I haven't found anything like that. It's really important. It is very wise that emerges from the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism. We clearly need to look at this. It's important for our growth. But we must also do so in the right order. It is good that the review has been carried out. It is good that the government is now taking action. It has, among other things, set up the investigation and will also soon begin to look at it. I look forward to what is stated in the government's letter that it intends to come back and ensure that the issue is on the table of the Education Committee. I therefore request that the letter be added to the file.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-667	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Gunilla Svantorp, for your speech here! The honourable Member notes that we have some concerns. I would like to stress that we have a great deal of concern. It has been a criticism of the holding companies for many years. The Swedish National Audit Office has looked at this before and seen that it has not complied with rules. Parliament's recommendations have not been followed. There are many things that have not been done for a very long time. That is why we see this great concern and would like to speed things up. There we may have felt a bit of dismay when one said: Now we put this to the record and wait a little longer. That is why we still have a great deal of concern. The fact that there have been complaints about the holding companies is something that has perhaps been going on for 20 years.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-670	Mr President, I would like to It is important, as I said earlier, to keep track of the democratic process. The government has set up an investigation and it has been seen that it is not really good. We need to do something about it. It cannot be said that nothing has been done, because it has actually been done. The government has set up an investigation. It has just made proposals in October. If you're going to have a democratic process, people have to have a say in the investigation before you make a proposal. It is a bit unfair to say that we have not done anything when the government has set up a very large investigation that has come up with a lot of different proposals that are now to be looked at. I am a little curious about what the honourable Member thinks you did in your time. What is the difference since 2014 when we got an S-governed government that took over? What happened before then that was as good as we haven't done since?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-674	Mr President, I would like to Our government was in 1991 when the holding companies were first introduced, which I thought was very good. They wanted to get higher schools and universities to cooperate more with the business community, which I think was great. That was a good start. Then we've followed it up. I can't tell you what the difference was and exactly what happened in 2014. But I know that the criticism started from 2000 when we didn't have the rule. There's been a lot of criticism. I'm sure there's a lot more you could do. But I think maybe you've been resting on the male for a lot of years.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-677	Mr President, I would like to You get to give priority to what you do. However, this has now been finally done and the investigation has been set up. I am sure that we really want the same thing and that something good will come out of it in the end.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-678	Mr President, I would like to In Section 2, the Higher Education Act states that higher education institutions will cooperate with the surrounding community and that they will work to ensure that the research results at the higher education institutions are of benefit. It is also stated in the same paragraph that the education at the higher education institutions should be based on a scientific basis. The paragraph then, Section 3, states that there should be a close link between research and education. The most obvious benefit of conducting research at higher education institutions is being able to educate students on a scientific basis. I often think that we forget that aspect when we talk about utilisation. In Humtank's report Humanities in society. If the need for a broader concept of collaboration that came last year – Humtank is a think tank run by the higher education institutions – it is clear that the higher education institutions do not sufficiently highlight the humanities in either collaboration or utility. It's the two parts of the portal clause of the Higher Education Act. I think that is also worth highlighting. The report shows that the human science researchers both work together and contribute significantly to the benefit of society. The research proposal that came in 2016, Knowledge in collaboration – for society's challenges and enhanced competitiveness, identifies a number of identified societal challenges. The benefit of the research is to contribute knowledge to meet the societal challenges. There are three ways of looking at this with the utilisation of research. It's about being close to research, it's about education and the role of the humanities and it's about meeting the societal challenge. But the commercial benefit of the research carried out at the country's higher education institutions is another aspect that is important and central to why we have research of high quality and that Sweden is one of the world's leading research and innovation nations and a prominent knowledge nation. What we are discussing today is a report from the Swedish National Audit Office on holding companies at the universities. As we have heard before, the holding companies are part of the public support for innovation. They work closely with higher education institutions to make use of university-based research for the commercial market in particular. They act as a kind of bridge to commercialize research. They then seem useful and are extremely important for Swedish innovation-driven industry, for entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship in Sweden, but also for research at higher education institutions, of course. We have 18 holding companies that are linked each to different universities. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed 17 of them. It has asked questions about the government's governance, whether the universities have run the companies in a good way and whether the holding companies invest as the Riksdag has decided they will. The Swedish National Audit Office points to a number of problems and makes recommendations both to the Government and to the higher education institutions. In the autumn, in October, Alf Karlsson's study on innovation support Innovation as a driver – from research to the benefit, as we have heard before, has also arrived. The investigator broadly agrees with the Riksrevision and lands in similar conclusions. It is reasonable, Mr President, for the government to remedy these shortcomings. That is absolutely the case, and we agree on that – I would say so. Several measures have also been taken, as we have heard before. This is also evident from the government's response to the report. Karlsson's investigation is now due for a referral – these are the signals from the department – and we are simply waiting for the referral. The holding companies are an important business, and of course they should be managed and operated in an efficient and efficient way. With that, Mr President, I would like to endorse the committee's proposal in the report.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-693	Mr President, I would like to The Social Security Committee certainly has a number of interesting topics on its table. Today we are here to debate one, or actually four, of them. But let's start with this. The residence permit requirement under the Temporary Act is called the SfU12 report. Quite just a week ago in committee we were told that this committee initiative was on the way, and the day before yesterday we were told that it would be debated here in Parliament today. This may not be believed, Mr President, in Sweden, or for that matter in the world, but sometimes the decision-making process is very fast and surprising, which in itself can be surprising. We have a committee majority consisting of the Green Party, the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals on this issue, and that means that I, as a Social Democrat, am here to ask for our approval of our reservation. I would also like to call for the committee's proposal to be rejected. In the Temporary Act, the Parliament has authorised the Government, on the basis of the seventh paragraph of the Eighth Chapter of the Government form, to lay down detailed rules on the ability to supply when examining the right to a permanent residence permit under the Temporary Act. We support the government's right to quickly and effectively mitigate the effects of the pandemic on vulnerable groups by deciding on regulatory changes. The outbreak of covid-19 has led to a stronger labour market situation, resulting in rising unemployment, not least in the hotel and restaurant industry, where many new arrivals get their first job. It can thus be assumed to have become significantly more difficult than before for persons covered by the Temporary Act to obtain employment, which means that more foreigners than under normal circumstances may be refused their application for a permanent residence permit under the Temporary Act. In our view, in order to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic on this group, it is important that the requirement for the duration of fixed-term employment is changed when examining the right to permanent residence. Given that the Parliament has given the government the current authorisation, it is natural that this should be done at regulation level. Against this background, we believe that the Riksdag should not make an announcement regarding provisions on the ability to provide for residence permits under the Temporary Act. Mr President, I would like to Writing speeches for debates is not easy. What do you bring? What should you leave out? While I was writing on this, I thought about mentioning something about all the unreasonable forms of employment that exist on the Swedish labour market and that in this case becomes so clear. It becomes clear that they are insecure and not reasonable in a welfare state. However, we are not here to discuss issues that directly affect the labour market, but what is reasonable to expect from changes in the regulation. The change in regulation on this particular issue concerns what form of employment can be regarded as lasting and to what extent temporary employment can be regarded as such. However, I would like to leave that discussion to the effect that, after three minutes and 54 seconds, I still agree with my party, the Green Party and the Left Party, and I would like to express my support for our reservation and reject the committee's proposal for an announcement.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-703	Mr President, I would like to Since the pandemic hit Sweden, broad political collaborations have been entered into to ensure that people in our society are affected as little as possible. Our community needs to show perseverance and strength in providing security for those of us who need it, whether it is caring for the acute illness, preventing the spread of infection or dealing with the many economic and structural consequences of a pandemic. We're gonna get through this together. We have made changes to unemployment insurance and health insurance, and we have given extensive support to the business community. It is therefore entirely reasonable that changes are also made in the area of migration when people are affected by unemployment and unpredictability in the tracks of the pandemic. In the course of this journey, parties have had to bend from their habitual positions. Mr President, I would like to Like all crises, the pandemic hits those who are already vulnerable hardest, those with little or no margins. One of these groups is those who are newly arrived in Sweden, and then also the children and young people who have come to Sweden without parents to seek shelter from war and persecution. Mr President, I would like to We will perhaps hear Members of Parliament calling children and young people who have applied for asylum in Sweden without parents for adult men without asylum reasons. The frequent repetition of a lie does not make it true. But unfortunately, it gets hold. We hear this more and more often. I would therefore like now, once and for all, to take a firm stand against that description. The majority of the unaccompanied came to Sweden as a child and sought refuge here from war, persecution and oppression. When migration policy was tightened, the Prime Minister promised that children would be excluded. But that was not the case. That promise was broken. The Migration Board changed its practice with the result that the 18th anniversary meant expulsion for many in the group. A judgment from the Migration Court of Appeal in 2017 stated that a large part of those under 18 years of age would be assessed as an alternative need for protection and receive a residence permit. However, the long processing times and legal uncertainty of age led many to reach the age of 18 before the decision was made or written down in age. The circle was closed. Through this Kafkanika situation, children have de facto been deprived of their right of asylum. The fact that they are now adults does not make this injustice any less serious. There is a political responsibility in this which weighs heavily and which cannot be escaped by constantly repeating lies about the group that has suffered the injustice. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party had preferably seen a comprehensive solution with permanent residence permits for the unaccompanied. It would have been the best, easiest and most realistic – both for the children and young people affected by the unreasonable trips I have mentioned and also for our society as a whole. It is no better for new groups of children and young people to be kept out of society's safety net. They become easy targets for exploitation as cheap labour or for being involved in criminal activities. It should also be understood by parties that constantly talk about shadow society. Unfortunately, it was not as comprehensive a solution as the Left Party had wished. Instead, some young people would be given a new opportunity through the new High School Act. However, the law was so poorly constructed that it was obvious that uncertainty and concern would persist and that, in addition, there was a great risk of exploitation and vulnerability in the course of the law. The Left Party saw the shortcomings and tried to remedy them. Unfortunately, the government was not interested, and now many young people live with the consequences. Mr President, I would like to Now that the pandemic has caused a major economic crisis, the lonecomers who have managed to get through the needle eyes of the High School Act are at risk of being hit again. After completing upper secondary school studies, you have six months to get a job, a job that will also have a so-called duration of more than two years. Even normally, it is extremely difficult. Secure jobs that unfortunately nothing to count on for young people in the Swedish labour market today. In these times, when the pandemic has struck, it is even worse. The Left Party believes that the possibility of a residence permit and the right to live with your family should be fair and predictable. It should not be the changing economic cycles that decide. The right to live with your family should not be a class issue either. These issues will now be resolved in the spring. We will discuss them when the Riksdag will take a position on what future migration policy will look like when the Restrictions Act expires. We will have to discuss this much more. At the moment, however, Mr President, the Government and Parliament have a responsibility to ensure that new arrivals with temporary permits are not unduly affected by the consequences of the pandemic. In particular, the parties behind the High School Act have a responsibility to ensure that it actually works. It is sad and frankly shocking to note that the Center Party – which was behind the High School Act and has repeatedly discussed the difficult situation of young people with permits under the new High School Act in the spring – has now completely turned. One can only say that the Center Party is failing the young people whom they have previously said they are protecting. The argument of the Center Party that changes now being made would not include those young people whose condition now expires in December is strange. Surely this is a problem. The Left Party has repeatedly asked the Minister for Migration what the government intends to do for not another group to be left out. We need to solve that. But instead of finding and pressing for such solutions, the Center Party therefore chooses that all – all – new arrivals with permits under the Temporary Restrictions Act or the New High School Act should be exposed to the cruel consequences of the pandemic. You can hardly be more cynical than that. And more wasteful of society's resources, you can hardly be. These young people have invested their time and energy in meeting the requirements and becoming part of Sweden. Sweden has invested in them, their education and their life opportunities. With its change of course, even if it is passive, the Center Party joins the blue-brown gang, which apparently has the highest priority to expel young nurses, plumbers and warehouse workers. If the Center Party really is serious about its concern about the exclusion of new groups of young people, they should reasonably vote in favour of an overall solution with permanent residence permits for those who have arrived as unaccompanied minors. The Left Party will give the Center Party such a chance in the spring. Then it's up to you to prove it. Mr President, I would like to We now see an urgent need to remedy some of the shortcomings in the patchwork of laws that affect people, so that people who just recently had permanent residence permits within their reach and perhaps even the possibility of hugging their child or loved one after several years are now not deprived of that opportunity in the wake of the pandemic. The days are ticking. The deadline should be paused during the current crisis to resume when the pandemic is over. The period of finding new jobs should also be extended to at least one year. Subsidised and short-term jobs should also be counted. The majority behind the new High School Act must take responsibility for providing security so that new arrivals in general and unaccompanied minors in particular do not again get caught. I assume that the government will accept that responsibility despite the total unwillingness of the bourgeoisie. The fact that it is within the government's mandate – and its obligation – to make such changes in order to protect society and people living in it in different ways from the negative consequences of the pandemic is self-evident to me. One such change is what we are now talking about in terms of permanent employment. Our community, Mr President, will also be on the side of newcomers. With this, I support the reservation. I would also like to draw the House's attention to the fact that we have a specific opinion.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-723	Mr President, I would like to The future of thousands of young people is at stake. The question is, are they going to continue looking for a job, become part of our society, start paying off student debt and create a life here? Or should they be forced to be expelled to one of the world's most dangerous countries, Afghanistan? In 2015, many unaccompanied minors came to Sweden to apply for asylum. Many of them had their birth or parents'origin in Afghanistan. Many, however, had grown up in Iran. They came here from oppression, from the danger of being killed, for fear of being persecuted. The processing times at the Migration Board were illegally long. Age assessments were made legally insecure and arbitrarily. There are even examples of young people who have had their age written down with as little as one day, despite the fact that the methods are criticised for serious margins of error which, moreover, do not in any way take into account the inviolable rights of children. There are children who have been treated as adults and have been deprived of their rights. There is a group that the Green Party, through an agreement with the Social Democrats, managed to get included in what is called the new High School Act. The new High School Act has rightly been criticised for leaving some outside, too. I would like to take this opportunity, Mr President, to really say that it is not because we did not want it to cover everyone. Had the Green Party had the power to decide for itself, this discussion on further amendments to the new High School Act would not have been necessary. We believe that it would have been reasonable for the unaccompanied minors who came as children, and who under all normal circumstances had had their trials as children and were most likely protected here, to be allowed to stay here. On 7 October, we again negotiated an agreement with the Social Democrats on a series of amendments to the new High School Act. After months of a pandemic that took out some industries in total, we saw that the incredibly tough demands of the new High School Act to get a permanent employment equivalent to at least two years from the Migration Board's decision were unreasonably harsh. We saw how young people with contracts got them demolished when the restaurants had to close down and the hotels no longer had guests. In a short time, record short time actually, the government has rolled out measures for those in the cultural sector who have been affected by the pandemic. The same thing for the sports movement, people who have lost their jobs and need to go to unemployment funds and companies that need short-term lay-offs or get conversion support to cope with this crisis. Those of us who have worked at home get a tax reduction to cope with the costs associated with turning the home into a workplace. Health care will have its costs covered. Public transport receives subsidies. Tax rules for free lunches have been amended and tax deferrals have been allowed. Billions have rolled out of the treasury to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic. Would it not be reasonable, then, to also overcome the consequences for this group, which is one of the groups that has already been most affected by the legal uncertainty of the Migration Agency since 2015? The difference for this group was definitely greater than the difference for many of the other groups for which we have introduced measures. For a long time it looked like we had a stable majority. The Left Party and the Center Party saw just as the government saw these needs. As late as April, the Center Party also called for a series of amendments to the new High School Act precisely as a result of the pandemic. But then on Monday something happened. The Center Party turned 180 degrees and decided that they would vote against the same changes that they themselves have demanded. The justification is, inter alia, that the amendments will not apply to those who went out this summer. Mr President, I would like to It brings us to the proposal we are discussing today. The amendment would have entered into force today and would have included those who went out this summer. It would have given them the opportunity to stay in Sweden and obtain a permanent residence permit if they obtained a job with one year's duration from the Migration Board's decision. One might think that the Center Party, with the arguments they put forward, would like to ensure this urgent change, which for some is the difference between forced expulsion and having to start their lives and pay back to the Swedish society that has invested and invested. It is not just society in the form of decision-making politicians who have invested in education and training for these young people. It is also voluntary family homes, good men, classmates, teachers, and friends. These kids are part of families today. They're bonus kids and big brothers. But no, the Center Party chooses to create a majority against this proposal today rather than let it go through. The argument has been, Mr President, that this amendment is not sufficiently significant. To shorten the time from two years to one year helps no one, claims the Center Party. I have been in contact with many young people and adults who help these young people find jobs. Throughout the autumn they have said: This is perhaps the most important thing of all. This needs to be put in place quickly, because employers don't dare to hire long contracts in the crisis – not even those who need labour. Municipalities have job stops on long-term contracts, companies as well. In fact, the difference between demanding a year and demanding two years can mean everything. Mr President, I would like to People have also begun to set up after this proposal that the government sent out for a referral, and they are now looking for jobs that correspond to what was proposed to take effect from today. Confidence in the public administration is seriously damaged by such abrupt changes and by the fact that they come at short notice. In fact, I do not understand why it took weeks, almost two months, for those parties who want to stop this change to come up with it. For so long it has been known that it is underway. Instead, it was chosen to do so when the proposal was about to come into force. Mr President, I would like to The young people involved are part of our society. They have already been unduly affected by legal uncertainty of age assessments, illegally long processing times, new practices and now the coronapndemin. The Green Party will continue to fight for them to build a future in our country and participate in building this society strong. Mr President, I would like to That is why I support this reservation.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-739	Mr President, I would like to 70 million. So many people are on the run around the world today. Only a very small proportion of them can afford and make their way to Europe, often on rank boats across the Mediterranean and with life as an input. The need around the world is enormous. Sweden can't help everyone. But we're going to take our share of responsibility for people fleeing in a broken world. In doing so, it is our duty to help those with the greatest need, that is, those who need protection for their lives. It is therefore important that we have a clear regulatory framework that means that a yes is a yes but also that a no is really a no. People who have come here to stay and who need protection will also have a real chance and meet with expectations of becoming a part of our society for real. But those who get a no, after an examination by the Migration Board and sometimes by court, will also leave the country. A no should be a no. In Sweden this works very badly. A yes is often not a yes for real. Children get caught up in parents' exclusion. They do not have sufficient knowledge and are then denied the community that a job brings. Many feel hopeless. Too many people get caught up in crime, once again with their own lives as well as the lives of others. But a no isn't a no either. Only half of those who should leave the country volunteer. Many become part of a growing shadow society, including that of hopelessness. A 'no' will not be a 'no' when the legislation repeatedly conveys a perhaps. Mr President, I would like to It's a gloomy picture I'm painting. But I am convinced that we can reverse the trend, that people who have come here will be able to get a much better start, that they will be able to be equipped with knowledge and skills and really be involved in building Sweden strong. One condition for us to have a chance at all to reverse developments is that we stand up for regulated immigration and that we have a very low level of immigration for a long time to come. We must now break up once and for all with a legislative tradition that has been marked by twitchiness and amnesties. We cannot continue to separate ourselves from the rest of the Nordic countries and Europe. Then people will continue to travel through Europe to come to Sweden. Then we can never turn the development around. Mr President, I would like to The secondary rule is Swedish immigration policy when it is at its worst. It is deeply unfair, and it is inhumane. The legal framework mainly concerns young adult men who have been given a judicial review in which they have no grounds for protection. The only right thing would then be for them to leave the country if they believed in regulated and fair immigration. Instead, a hope was sparked by these thousands of unaccompanied ones by giving them a chance to stay if they passed upper secondary school studies and obtained a lasting job. Already when the bill came, there were many of us who warned. Some pointed out the inhumane nature of what was meant as a second chance in practice will turn into a single long, drawn-out, inhumane expulsion. The law council said that the limit was reached for what can be accepted in Swedish legislation. The parties that voted for the High School Act have a heavy responsibility. It is you who are responsible for the fact that so many unaccompanied people have repeatedly been thrown between hope and despair. It is you who are responsible for society spending its resources on people who do not have protection reasons while the need in the world is enormous. As politicians, you need to prioritise even when it's difficult. Here the government has repeatedly chosen to give priority to a group of young men without protection reasons over those who really need protection. It's inhumane, and it's not fair. That the rules are unreasonable and untenable, as many people have said from the outset, the Social Democrats and the Swedish Democrats are now trying to correct by continuing to patch and fix, by lighting a hope in some while the hope has long been extinguished for others. Late a Monday afternoon, the government sent out a proposal for a new regulation that lowers the requirements for the employment you should have in order to obtain a permanent residence permit, according to the Upper Secondary Education Act. The referrals were given only a few days to respond. It is not only contrary to common sense; it is also contrary to Sweden's constitution. Therefore, I am now very relieved that a clear majority in this House has chosen to support the Moderates' proposal to say no to this regulation. I expect the government to listen to the parliamentary majority and withdraw its proposal. But the government does not seem to be finished with its patchwork. The Social Democrats and the Swedish Democrats agree to further loosen the upper secondary legislation by means of two new legislative changes that will give those covered by the Upper Secondary Education Act more time to get jobs and lower demands on the scope of jobs. Nor should these proposals be seen in the light of day. There must be an end to the patching and repairing. Sweden needs a new, long-term policy for lower immigration, a fair policy where a no is really a no and where a yes is a yes for real. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-755	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. The revolution eats its children, you say. The day before yesterday I read in the newspaper how the Environment Party representative between the lines accused the Center of dancing after the xenophobic forces' pipe. It was because with customary indecisiveness the Center had chosen to abstain on the question of even more reliefs and loopholes for former unaccompanied young men. The fun thing about the crow song is that it's exactly the same rhetoric that the Center in turn uses when someone dares to have a different opinion on migration issues. All the things that mean direct responsibility in migration policy are labeled as xenophobia. According to both the Center Party and the Green Party, there are good ones, and there are bad ones. Those who are good are those who do not pretend about such things as impact assessment, alternative costs and boring things as away priorities. They are simply against responsibility and reason. Perhaps, for the sake of simplicity, we should just call them anti-irresponsible or anti-reasoning instead, Mr President. For many years, at least me and my fellow Members have been standing in this House, repeatedly taking a stand for reason and advocating responsibility. We have always explained that half-measures are not good enough and that Sweden needs an absolute minimum level of migration legislation, which is predictable, long-term and consistent. Time and again we have criticised both the government and other parties in this House for being willing to make new exceptions and create new loopholes without responsibility and without reason. The so-called High School Act, as has already been mentioned, will forever be notorious as one of the largest farce in Swedish law. The law council's winged words were: a limit has been reached on what is acceptable in terms of how legislation can be drafted. ..................................................... The idea was that we would get away from such things by working out a better system. For almost a year, therefore, I and several of my colleagues in this House, from all the parties in Parliament, have been on a migration committee tasked with establishing a regime that is sustainable in the long term. It would reduce the need for temporary solutions and ensure a permanent order. There should be order and order in migration policy, as it is usually called. Yet we stand here today debating new loopholes and new exceptions. This time, the government takes the shortcut through an amended regulation to avoid passing through the Chamber. For a full four days, the consultative bodies were given the opportunity to make their views known. What are the changes that are so urgent to introduce? Well, Mr President, for four years, the temporary law has said that foreigners who wish to obtain a permanent residence permit should have long-term livelihoods. The Migration Agency, which has had the right to define the details, has always held the same position: at least two years' employment is required. The government now wants to change that. Already this spring, when the pandemic was still in its infancy, we in the Swedish Democrats noted that anti-reason forces wanted to use the pandemic as a lever in migration policy. Covid-19 changed the situation on the labour market, so that the High School Act suddenly risked not having the amnesty effect that the anti-reasoning forces wanted to see. The government is now aligning itself with these forces by trying to run over the Migration Board's practice and legal position. One year's employment should be enough so that more people can stay, despite the economic crisis that Sweden is going through. Mr President, I would like to This farce has to stop. To continue with this patching and repair only leads to losers. Let me mention here not only the cracks in the construction of society and the huge mountain of integration problems that have been built up throughout the 2010s. But let me also mention those who have perhaps gone the most badly of all the hating back and forth that the anti-reasoning parties have engaged in, namely the young men who today remain in limbo in Sweden. These young men had to wait unreasonably long for their negative asylum decisions, as the migratory liberal forces did not understand the consequences of leaving the border wide open. These young men were then tempted to remain on uncertain premises when the anti-reasoning parties felt guilty and piled up new temporary laws on each other. These young men lack protection reasons and do not meet the demands of the High School Act: train and get a job. The young men feel that they have been promised to stay and are rightly disappointed and cursed today by the anti-reasoning parties who made these promises without a mandate from the Swedish people. The government should apologize to those who are about to leave Sweden on the way to the airport. They've wasted some of their best years. These are years that they could have used to build their lives and their future in their homeland. Mr President, I would like to Let me tie up the bag. When the government launched its plan to once again undermine the temporary law, the Swedish Democrats proposed that the committee support a sharp bill. It would state that at least two years' employment must be required in order to be regarded as sustainable, i.e. the current system. It is, of course, sad that our proposal did not win the majority in committee, but we can be glad that there seems to be a majority to announce to the government that it will refrain from new exceptions and loopholes. Unfortunately, however, it still seems very unclear how the government intends to take a stand on this. The amendment of the regulation would actually have entered into force today, but the government has chosen to wait until this debate is concluded. On the other hand, the government has not given clear information as to whether it intends to listen to the majority of the parliament and refrain from the change. I asked a question during today's Question Time, but I could not get a straight answer to the question. Let me therefore make a renewed promise. If the government nevertheless moves forward, the Swedish Democrats will do everything to gather a majority behind a sharp bill on the matter.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-773	Mr President, I would like to In 2015, Sweden and people were displaced from war in a difficult situation that required changes in migration policy. Therefore, together with several other parties, we concluded an agreement with broad support in the Riksdag, the so-called migration agreement. But not long after we shook hands, the government chose to go further and introduce the first very restrictive Temporary Asylum Act. This law meant that families who fled from war could not be reunited in Sweden. We could not support this. That is why we voted against the temporary law which, among other things, the Green Party pushed through. When we agreed to extend the temporary law in the January agreement, it was obvious to us that this restriction would be removed and that families who had fled to Sweden would have the opportunity to reunite. We in the Center Party share the view that in recent years there has been a need for changes in Swedish migration policy. But to completely remove the opportunity for people divided by war to reunite is something we can never support. In 2018, the Center Party endorsed the Upper Secondary Education Act to give young people affected by the changing migration policy a new opportunity for a residence permit. We are proud that we gave the unaccompanied young people a second chance. But we were critical of the design of the law, not least because people with the same conditions had different opportunities to be covered by it. The same would happen now if we allowed the government's proposal to change the Upper Secondary Education Act. It would also be even more unfair. We can't support it. This means that those young people whose condition expires now, who have been most affected by the pandemic and who have been the fastest in completing their studies, will be able to be expelled before the changes are in place. It is not reasonable to make legislation that has been ill-designed from the outset even more unfair to those who have completed their studies the fastest. The government has also presented a new regulation that will apply from tomorrow. The amendment means that a person who has one year's employment and otherwise meets the requirements can be granted a permanent residence permit. As it is a change of regulation, it is up to the government to decide on it. Parliament decides on laws, not regulations. That is why, in accordance with our special opinion, the Centre Party will abstain from the vote. What Sweden now needs is a long-term and sustainable migration policy, not more patching and repairing. That is why we and the other January parties agreed that we should set up a parliamentary committee. This committee has submitted a proposal for a new migration policy to the government. We believe that this report is a good basis for a sustainable, broad and humane migration policy in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I was going to finish here, but I feel that I would like to say something more. The report presented by the Migration Committee is well placed to become a stable and strong piece of legislation, but it needs to be adjusted. We really need a new broad, humanitarian basis that will enable us to help the most vulnerable. We need a migration policy that can really help those people who have the greatest need for protection. When you listen to the debate today, you hear that the Green Party places a great deal of responsibility on the Center Party. They say that they are absolutely not satisfied with the proposals, but that it was the best thing that could be achieved in the negotiations. And they think that the rest of us should vote in favour of this and be satisfied. But we cannot make an already ill-designed law even more unfair. It's unfair to all those who graduated this summer. In conclusion, I would like to say that we in this House are right to agree on one thing in migration policy, namely the need for a long-term migration policy in which there will once and for all be an end to legislation and patching. We all have a responsibility to resolve this by spring so that we can replace the temporary legislation that expires on 20 July with something that is sustainable, long-term and, above all, stable for people who have fled from war.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-783	Mr President, I would like to When we were in the first wave of the pandemic this spring, on Friday, 17 April, there was a news at Ekot about the fact that the Center Party felt that the consequences of the pandemic were unreasonably hard on the young people who had a residence permit under the temporary law. Jonny Cato was quoted as saying, "Now we see very many people who are beginning to finish their education, where promised jobs, jobs that no longer exist, given the economic situation in which the country finds itself." The Center Party demanded that the regulatory framework be relaxed. Here we are, Mr President, in the second wave of the pandemic. Unemployment is deepening. We know what the industries look like. My question to Jonny Cato is: What has changed? What is it that makes Jonny Cato no longer think that we should make the necessary changes in order for this group not to suffer the consequences that he was very worried about on 17 April?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-785	Mr President, I would like to I think we need to be reminded once again that the two major legislative changes of the government for the group are not even referred to. They don't exist. We don't know when they'll be there. I guess it'll be sometime in six months. This means that those who took the student this summer get six months to find a job, not twelve. This, in turn, means that they do not have a changed supply requirement. In other words, those who took the student this summer and who have been affected by the pandemic throughout the autumn are not covered by the government's legislative changes. So it is strong to say that that is what the Center Party said. I find this genuinely difficult. But I also find it very difficult to support something that means that those who have met the requirements that we set up – they would manage in the Swedish language and pass their upper secondary school studies, preferably as soon as possible – and have been the fastest ones to get the worst conditions to stay. It's not fair. The government's proposal is directly unfair.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-788	Mr President, I would like to I note that Jonny Cato cannot explain why he felt on 17 April that people were unfairly affected by this, but today we no longer think that we should remedy it. What the Center Party had as an alternative instead of preparing the blue-browns an opportunity to stop small and reasonable changes was to press on with, among other things, the Left Party for a good retroactive legislation. We can see that there is a conflict within the government. You had the opportunity to help, so that this would end up right. Instead, you're not doing anything. I'm worried about new groups falling outside. I think it would have been much better to be straight and honest and give permanent residence permits to the whole group from the start. What we see is nothing more than a disaster for a great many, both for them as individuals and for society. It's never good when people end up outside. The argument that I hear from the Center Party cannot really land in so much other than – what to say – an amnesty and permanent residence permit for the group. I also see that the Centre Party's youth federation is now talking about this. Then, of course, I wonder: is it the case that you will finally vote with us when we present our proposal in the spring?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-790	Mr President, I would like to I think that I and Christina Höj Larsen can agree that this was a bad piece of legislation from the outset. We are now seeing the effects of the effects that the Center Party pointed out at the time. That too is the responsibility of the government. When the Center Party voted in favour of the legislation, we said that we would not make any changes. We said that this was the last time we supported patching and repairing in Swedish migration policy. We also said that it is important for this group to learn the Swedish language, get a job and get into Swedish society. There are many who have taken that chance, and I still think there are many who will take the chance in the future. Let us not forget that it is not the case that the law disappears, but it is still there. What's happening is we're not making any changes.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-792	Mr President, I would like to It is genuinely unfair, says Jonny Cato, that those who graduated high school this spring are not covered. Why hasn't Jonny Cato said anything about this during any of the talks we've had since these changes were introduced? I know, like Jonny Cato, that the vote of the Center Party was crucial to getting these proposals through. Why, then, did the Center Party not try to bring forward this criticism, change the proposals, speed up and ensure that those who are now claimed to be protected are included? And why is the Center Party doing just enough now for those who graduated from high school this summer not to get the relief that this amendment of the regulation brings? Why is the Center Party abstaining from voting so that Parliament votes against the relief of the group that the Center Party claims to care so much that, for God's sake, it does not want to give those who take the student later the unfair advantage of not having to be expelled because of the pandemic?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-793	Mr President, I would like to There will be something strange when the Center Party receives criticism that we could have made this much earlier. Let me remind you that we have not yet seen the two legislative amendments proposed by the government. They are not yet presented but just announced at a press meeting that I saw myself on television. I also wonder if Annika Hirvonen thinks it's fair that those who took the student this summer get six months to find work, while you want those who take the student next summer to get 12 months. Is it fair that those who have completed upper secondary school studies the fastest should have less time than those who will take the student in the future?
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-795	Mr President, I would like to Although the Center Party has not seen the proposals, they have made up their minds. After all, the Center Party already knows what the proposals are. These are exactly the proposals that the Center Party called for last spring. Then nothing was said about who they would include and when they would have to enter into force. To be honest, Mr President, I could not imagine that the Center Party would post-construct a logic whereby it would rather let all thousands of young people suffer the pandemic and risk expulsion to one of the world's most dangerous countries because the labour market stands still than ensure that the vast majority of them could get a chance. But the logic that the Center Party has now constructed does not make sense, Mr President. Why are we abstaining on the proposal that matters to those who went out the fastest? It is a change of regulation that would reduce the requirements on the length of employment to what is actually being offered at the moment, namely one year from the decision of the Migration Board. I still haven't been told why the Center Party wants to throw these kids under the bus.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-798	Mr President, I would like to There were very strong words at the end. I believe that anyone who has followed the debate on migration policy in recent years knows where the Center Party stands. We stand for a humane migration policy. We have fought for this throughout the last year, and we still do. I hope that the Green Party will also be able to do so, so that it will not be like 2015. I hope that you will be able to stand up for a broad humanitarian basis that can help the most vulnerable. I still have no answers to my questions either. I have not been given the answer to the question why those who took the student the fastest should not be covered by the two legislative changes proposed by the government. For me, it will be deeply unfair. When you use expressions like at the end of the last line– I don't even want to put it in my mouth– I feel that maybe somewhere has gone a little too far in this debate. Instead, let us agree and try to find solutions for a broad humanitarian basis and for alternative beneficiaries and refugees to have the same length of permit. I hope that the Green Party can stand up for this in its talks with the Social Democrats. I also hope that we can finally get a broad long-term migration policy in place, so that people on the run know what applies when they come to Sweden. It would be best for Sweden, and above all it would be best for people on the run. That's enough patching and repairing.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-801	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a declaration to be approved. Let me first comment on a little bit of the debate that we have heard. The responsibility for this flawed law rests entirely with those parties who, despite all the warnings and remarks, chose to introduce it. There is no other law, at least no law that I know of, which has received such severe criticism before the decision, but which has nevertheless been introduced. In fact, talking about humanism at the same time as having been involved in the implementation of this law is a bit of a bad thing in my ears. Who has actually let these people down? To whom, for example, is the responsibility for teachers having to act as courts in principle, knowing that their grades can be decisive to a person's fate? It is and remains the parties that voted through the law. If the debate on migration policy is to be said to be doing very well in trying to avoid the conflict of objectives, in other words, where a negative message ultimately changes to something positive and where, in the end, a ‘no' is not a ‘no'. That is something that we Christian Democrats have taken on board, and we want to avoid this at all costs. It is not humane, it is not fair and it is not translationable for those who claim to be striving for a clear and sustainable migration policy in the long term. It is undeniably a little difficult to round the environmental party's responsibilities here tonight. They haven't just been involved in pushing through the law. The Green Party has also been in government for more than six years. The Green Party has repeatedly given these people a false hope that you have not subsequently fulfilled. These young adults, now covered by the Upper Secondary Education Act, despite their lack of asylum grounds, have still been given a new residence permit. But with a few exceptions, this law only leads to a prolonged expulsion. That it costs Swedish taxpayers a lot of money we do not need to talk about. But if it's humane, I think we should think about it. We Christian Democrats voted against this law to give around 9 000 unaccompanied minors the opportunity to obtain a residence permit even though they lacked grounds for protection. It is the need for protection that is by far the most important. It is not processing times or, for that matter, upper secondary schools that should be tested without the need for protection. Nor does the existence of covid-19 alter the fact that we are talking about a group which has no grounds for protection and which has also been tried in court. Last Monday, this proposal for a change of regulation was sent out for referral by the Ministry of Justice, and Friday's responses were due – four days. The change is that one year's employment will now be sufficient to obtain a permanent residence permit. It is a halving compared to what has been the case in the past. We have representatives from the government here, social democrats and environmentalists. My question to them is: how can one year's employment be considered to meet the legal requirement of sustainable livelihood? I don't understand it. A four-day referral period and an impact assessment – for all of you who have not read it – which is on a third of the A4 page is, of course, not acceptable. The impact assessment, for all of you who have not read it, merely states that any cost increases should be managed within existing funding frameworks. How can you make a referral list and not include SKR, Swedish Municipalities and Regions? This is an extremely relevant issue. It is the organisation that represents all the municipalities that have tried to solve the task despite this haftsverk till lag to try to save the situation in some way. They were not included as referrals. Perhaps it is because the SKR has made a clear statement about this law. SKR has said that this is a law that has short-circuited itself. Perhaps such a referral was avoided. I have called this approach a coup d'état and imprecise one. This description and judgement remain. The activism expressed by the Left Party and the Green Party through their actions is one thing. But the winginess that distinguishes the Social Democrats and the Center Party is also something to note. Sweden does not need either activism or vigor at the moment, but the task at hand is to create a sustainable migration policy in the long term. Then relief or demands for amnesties for people who do not have asylum grounds are not the right way to go. Madam President, I would like After listening to this debate, I think it is quite clear that Sweden really needs a new government, a government which, in addition to creating legislation based on the fact that it actually treats all people equally, also understands that one should avoid ambiguity about whether a no really is a no, a government that understands that the task now is also to shape a tight migration policy for many years to come so that we can solve the integration problems that have become obvious to all of us, even to those who did not see the problems coming. I support the committee's proposal.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-814	Madam President, I would like Hans Eklind said it costs money. Of course, there is a lot that costs money when children are to become adults, not to mention the maternal care needed before children are born, the BVC then and then preschool, primary school, care during childhood and vaccinations. Most adults in Sweden have cost Swedish society money for just over a few decades before they start working. The young people we are talking about today have been costing Swedish society money for about five years. We have provided them with training, shelter and support. Now they were ready to start paying back, now that the pandemic struck. Few people are integrated as a group faster than these unaccompanied ones. And I've met many of them. I am struck by the drive these young people have. Employers whom I meet and who have hired these young people are incredibly impressed and satisfied. I believe that if it had not been for this pandemic, they would have become highly valued workers, including in the restaurant and hotel sectors, i.e. the sectors that are now down. Mr Eklind, what will cost this society the most money where we stand today is if, instead of giving these young people the chance to bridge the pandemic, we are going to charter aircraft to expel them under duress to one of the world's poorest and most dangerous countries.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-819	Madam President, I would like I thank Annika Hirvonen for this. It is like this: What has cost money is that the law came into being at all, that it was introduced. That is what has cost money. It is the Green Party and the other parties entirely responsible for that. I don't think for a moment it's just about covid-19. I have noticed that some of the parties have tried to talk about amnesty in all possible contexts, but not only during the covid-19 pandemic. There have always been reasons why these parties think that this needs to be changed. The Christian Democrats are very clear. Those who have protection reasons should be allowed to stay in Sweden. We are also clear that Sweden cannot reasonably be considered to have so much money, if we now look out at the enormous needs that exist not least in Swedish healthcare. In addition, we have now begun to talk about care for the elderly, which needs to be highlighted in a number of ways in order to avoid the situation that we have experienced over the past year. This money does not grow on high. It is not that we have our own banknote press in the basement, at least not in the Christian Democrats, that we can use. We must prioritise, because politics is a priority. And there are always alternative costs. I think, then, that if you think you have this money for a group that has no reason for asylum, then it will have to be for the Green Party. But for the Christian Democrats the message is very clear: We are going to use Swedish taxpayers' money to solve the situation here at home. We shall have generous and effective aid, but we shall also concentrate the resources we have on the people who have asylum reasons. Amnesty will lead to increased pressure on Sweden and even higher costs.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-825	Madam President, I would like No, money does not grow on trees; it comes into the public purse when citizens are working. And that is what these young people want to do now: work. The proposal we are talking about today is that those who get a job of at least one year should be allowed to stay and work here and pay taxes – pay back for the five years that this society has invested in these children who came in 2015 and who are now young adults, whom we have given an education and who want nothing more than just to pay back. In this way, care is given more resources, not only in the form of tax money, but in many cases also concretely in the form of those hands in the care of the elderly, which make society's welfare hold for more. What we are facing now is the choice between either allowing the pandemic to lead to their being forced away, which costs money, or letting them stay and work and pay taxes for what we want to spend money on in Swedish welfare. I'll choose the latter, Hans Eklind.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-827	Madam President, I would like I note, and I hope everyone else did, that the Green Party Member does not answer the only question I asked in my speech, namely: how can one think that a year's employment is tantamount to or a goal fulfilment of what the law actually says about sustainable livelihoods? A year in my book is not a lasting livelihood. There is research to be supported by when you look at this, instead of a lot of opinion as to whether it will go well or not. Several studies have been carried out on this, and it is quite clear: Sweden has had an immigration that has been positive for the Swedish economy up to the 1970s. This was because those who came to Sweden also started working. In the 80s, Swedish immigration went plus minus zero, and from the 90s onwards it has been a cost to Swedish society, for the reason that we do not get those who come to Sweden to work quickly enough. Lifting this particular group and making a lot of special solutions for them should not be the most primary thing for us who think that we should give protection to the people seeking protection and that we need to get started an integration that actually works. We see alienation and parallel societies growing here and now in Sweden, where Annika Hirvonen Falk's party is in government position. We fail miserably to give those who actually have protection grounds a good start so that they become part of the community for which I, as a Christian Democrat, fight and which should apply to everyone, not just some. I'm just noticing that the answer didn't come. For me, this proposal is devastating. One year's employment is not a permanent livelihood. And the procedure itself with a four-day referral period– I think we all agree that it is not reasonable to do that.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-831	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. Liberal migration policy is very clear. We want Sweden to take its responsibility and stand up for people who flee because of war and oppression. We will do so also through ambitious aid, humanitarian aid and much more, and we will do so by giving people a residence permit in Sweden. We are also in favour of regulated immigration. This is something that Sweden has had for a very long time. Regulated immigration means that we try that people have a sufficiently strong need for protection; then you can stay in Sweden. If this is not considered to be the case according to our authorities, one can appeal, often in two instances. If you then get a final judgment that states that you do not have enough reason to stay in Sweden, you must be prepared to leave the country. This is the most reasonable order a nation state can have for immigration into its country. What happened after 2015, when we had had a very large search print on Sweden and tens of thousands of people came during the fall, was that we got very long processing times and other things. However, the Migration Agency has to test the need for protection ahead of time, and when it was assessed that many of those who applied for asylum did not have sufficient grounds for asylum, the Left side, together with the Center Party, chose to enforce the new High School Act. It came in 2018. We voted against it by the Liberals because we believe that it is not reasonable for a large group of people, in this case about 9 000, who have all been refused their asylum applications to remain in Sweden anyway. A very large exception was made for that group. It first made an exception to the grounds of protection and said that these 9 000 people need not have asylum reasons – they can stay in any case. After that, an exception was also made as regards the identity requirement. This has to do with the fact that a majority of these 9 000 have indicated an age that our authorities do not believe is correct. Thus, an exception was first made concerning the grounds of protection and then an existing identity requirement. It was explicitly written in the legislation that you do not have to show Swedish authorities who you are. It is a somewhat odd order in the rule of law to grant residence permits to people who are not known who they are. After that, a number of different proposals have been put forward for other derogations, and that is what we are discussing right now. The new High School Act means that a person who has completed high school has six months to find a job. The job that is to be given should have a duration that the Migration Agency in a legal position 2017 has decided for at least two years. There are income rules and some other things. Subsequently, a number of different demands have been put forward to allow subsidised employment, despite the fact that legislation makes it clear that this cannot be done. There have been calls for a longer period of time to find a job; that is what is now out for a referral. Demands have been put forward to combine benefits with jobs, which lowers the level of income needed. And it has now been established in a new legal position from the Migration Agency that a probationary period can be sufficient to obtain a permanent residence permit. To note is that all these demands that have been put forward to make reliefs in the law have been brought forward by the same parties that have written the law. From the referrals that were written when the new High School Act came into force, it appears that several consultation bodies pointed to these things already then, but it ignored the responsible parties in caring about. It ignored the various views expressed by consultative bodies and, above all, ignored what the Law Council said. So we are in a situation where these young people are hurled back and forth between different messages and have false hopes. Unfortunately, that responsibility lies with the parties that wrote this law. We believe from the Liberals that what we need in Sweden is a long-term sustainable migration policy. This means that we must protect what is the backbone of migration policy and asylum policy, namely that we must safeguard the right to asylum. If you have a strong enough need for protection, you should be able to stay in Sweden and build a new life here. Then we can build different types of incentives and requirements into the system, for example that you need to have a job and learn Swedish in order for a temporary residence permit to become a permanent residence permit. If you are refused, you should have the right to appeal in court, and there should be some kind of humanitarian valve for certain specific cases. This is in a broad sense a long-term sustainable migration policy where we take our responsibility and stand up, but where we also do it in a way that our society can manage and so that the basic functions of Swedish society – such as social services, schools, the judiciary, the labour market, housing supply and so on – do not meet their commitments. We need a migration policy at a level that our society can cope with. This means that, in the end, we must also prioritise so that those who have the greatest need for protection can stay in Sweden. In conclusion, Madam President, I think it is very important that, as politicians in this House, when we express ourselves, we do not use extreme upper words in the debate, such as saying that another debateer wants to throw people under the bus or, as the same Member said in the Expressen, that for these people it is now only left to take their lives. I do not think this is a good way to deal with the debate on migration policy.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-847	Madam President, I would like Several Members have accused the Green Party and me of giving people hope. I hope I'm guilty. In fact, a sure expulsion to a life in danger is no better than the hope of a future. I hope that hope can continue to live. I hope that many employers now see the potential of these young people and what they have the opportunity to give to our society and their businesses. I hope that there are many of you who offer the possibility of lasting employment – the opportunity for these young people to both start paying back to Swedish society and get permanent security in our country. This possibility would not have existed if the parties wishing that we did not give the young people hope had been left to decide. Madam President, I would like Hope is said to be the last thing that leaves a human being. I think it's an incredibly beautiful compliment from Maria Malmer Stenergard and Hans Eklind that they accuse me of giving people hope.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-850	Madam President, I would like Since the beginning of the pandemic, the Swedish Democrats have been working on developing proposals that strengthen the social safety net of welfare for those affected. We have also partly put party political issues aside and supported the government on the issues we considered vital to ensure continued social protection for citizens. Having said that, we have not stopped examining the government's measures if we consider these inadequate or incorrect, because the starting point of the Swedish Democrats' social security policy is a safe and effective social security system that should work when it is most needed. Madam President, I would like The management of financial compensation for people at risk has almost resembled a farce. The first reported cases of covid-19 were registered at the end of January and continued during the first weeks of February. Throughout the spring and summer there were many who were uncertain about how serious the virus was and how it would affect us. On 14 April, the National Board of Health and Welfare was tasked with identifying any risk groups that might be particularly sensitive and exposed to a possible illness in covid-19. The result was to be presented most quickly, and it was already on 17 April. After this, nothing was done in principle. During the spring and summer, the Association of Functional Rights sent several requests to the Government to return promptly with answers regarding sickness benefit and preventive sickness benefit to persons belonging to a risk group. It was not until 10 June that the government presented its proposal, which in turn would not enter into force until 1 July. In addition, it took quite some time for the reimbursement of the compensation to be made. By then, people had lived for a long time without livelihood. We are now in October. After three months it turned out that the compensation, which received a budget of around 5.5 billion, was under-utilised and that only 3 000 of the estimated 100 000 applications had been received. In this connection, it was written about people who had applied and been rejected because they had only one of the required risk factors and not several. It was clear that the criteria were far too high, and we in the Swedish Democrats were very critical of this. When it comes to protecting persons at risk from serious infection, the main rule for the Swedish Social Insurance Agency should be to free rather than convict. Madam President, I would like In October, therefore, the compensation for persons at risk was again suspended, since it was only decided until 30 September. After sharp criticism by the opposition and clarity that the compensation should be extended, the government came at the last second with a declaration of extension until 31 December. Well – the government extended the compensation year out. However, the increase in the number of days did not follow, which meant that people who have now regained hope of livelihood were rejected from the Social Insurance Agency when their 90 days were already spent. Once again, people got caught up in uncertainty. After strong reaction from the opposition in the Social Security Committee, we called the Finance Minister to the committee. It boosted the government. Lately, an amending budget came to the Finance Committee, which was able to regulate even the number of days. However, the committee would like to extend the period further. On the question of why the government does not want to extend the compensation until after the end of the year, the Minister replied, among other things, that people need to switch to new jobs. Seriously! We believe that the goal should be that those who belong to a risk group but who cannot work from home should be able to return to their regular work after the risk of infection has decreased or the pandemic is considered to be over. It is not the ability to work that prevents these people from working; it is the ongoing pandemic. The day before it was decided on this committee initiative, the government announced its intention to extend the compensation until 31 March. However, the government's proposals are not yet on the table – hence this announcement and this debate. The committee believes that the government should extend the compensation until 31 March and increase the number of days. We very much hope that the government's promise of an extension will be fulfilled in good time this time. Madam President, I would like We are aware that there is a new and extraordinary situation. However, the fact that the government has taken such a long time to decide on compensation for people who have given up secular work to protect themselves and to protect their loved ones is nothing more than remarkable, and it is really badly handled. It is now of the utmost importance that there should not be a gap in the payment of compensation to risk groups between these reimbursement periods. We have been reached by many stories from people who have been affected, such as those who, in order to save their personal finances and the family, have gone back to work pending decisions from the Social Insurance Agency, where they have since been rejected for working. Again, these people do not have a problem working, but it is a problem that they are exposed to infection. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to dwell on our reservation, which I support. Since the beginning of the pandemic, we have also pushed for children belonging to risk groups to be entitled to home school. We support that schoolchildren should go to school as far as possible, but it is wrong when parents of children at risk who believe that their children need to be at home to be protected from infection are under pressure from both the headmaster and social services to keep their children at home. Here we have a request that there should be greater understanding and flexibility when it comes to children at risk who are usually in school. We are therefore, of course, behind the announcement to the government of the extension of compensation to risk groups, but we also want children at risk to be able to get the right to frightful education.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-868	Madam President, I would like The situation is serious. We see that more people are being intensively treated and that the spread of covid-19 is increasing again. That is why what we are discussing today, an extension of the remuneration of risk groups, is incredibly important. Madam President, I would like Society would stop if bus drivers, child nurses and nurses were to work from home. Class determines who is at risk of infection and who can escape. The risk of dying in covid-19 is four times as high in the low income group as in the highest income group. Working from home can certainly work if you are a commercial in Stockholm's inner city, but working from home does not work as well if you are driving the night train to Malmö. All of us here depend on the shelves in the store being filled with goods and that there is someone who can take care of us if we get sick. The employer also has a responsibility to change and find other tasks for the person belonging to a risk group. There are good examples of this already today, but more are needed. It looks different in different workplaces, and it differs between municipalities. Madam President, I would like The government has now finally made sure that the compensation is extended, but it has taken time, too long. During the period, many people have been severely affected. Many have been refused their application because of the delay, and several have experienced a great deal of stress because of the ignorance of what is to happen. Employers who have changed have not known how long it will last, and the people themselves have not been able to feel safe in knowing that they do not have to worry about being exposed to infection even next month. Madam President, I would like We were first told by the government that at the end of the year compensation for risk groups would be stopped. If you had been away more than 180 days from work, you had to make a beautiful change. The Left Party generally wants to change this kind of incomprehensible rules that unfortunately exist in our health insurance, among other things. In a first step, about a week ago we had a majority to change. We need to put an end to the backlogs in our insurance systems, and that should apply to all sick people, regardless of their diagnosis. Perhaps the pandemic can make more, perhaps even other politicians, understand that this is not the way we can have it. If you're sick, you should also have the right to be sick. That's just the way it is. The Government's temporary decree, which is to ensure that people are not covered during the pandemic for the failure of health interventions and rehabilitation, contains major shortcomings. It also needs to be reviewed. The Left Party has already made a proposal to that effect today. There must be an end to inertia and insurance. Madam President, I would like In the past, the Left Party also launched a committee initiative to ensure that risk groups receive compensation after the end of the year. I don't want to say it was the Left Party's credit. No, it even says in some sort of agreement that we do not have any influence. But the government has now joined in any case. The Left Party, of course, welcomes this and assumes that the government will also increase the number of eligible days within the temporary benefits of certain sickness benefit for preventive purposes, certain sickness benefit and certain temporary parental benefit during the same period. Madam President, I would like The Left also sees it as self-evident that those who are entitled to compensation also receive it and that no misassessments are made on the basis of diagnostic criteria and other things. The demarcation that the government has made about people living with someone who belongs to a risk group we are critical of. We believe that the rules are too tight. The provisions on the care of children belonging to a risk group are also problematic, as they only apply to children who have recently been seriously ill. Other permits that make them belong to a risk group do not currently entitle them to compensation. Madam President, I would like I therefore support the Left Party's reservation 2 in paragraph 2. Madam President, I would like We have put forward other proposals for major and important changes to health insurance for everyone affected by illness. We have also on several occasions proposed a more balanced response to the current economic crisis. Entrepreneurs have received large, extensive support, while health care staff and elderly care staff are under severe pressure due to insufficient resources. Crisis policy must not contribute to widening gaps but should be designed to contribute to a more robust and stronger society. But better late than never. Compensation for risk groups is an important part of crisis policy.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-880	Madam President, I would like I do not think that just a year ago anyone could see before us how we would live our lives in December 2020 with strict restrictions, tough approaches and a daily life where we cannot meet friends, loved ones. When the pandemic took off in the spring and when the countries of the world changed, I was glad that I live in a country that has a broad approach to crisis policy when it comes to health and to jointly holding down the infection. Keep your distance, stay at home if you feel symptoms and work from home if you can be simple but at the same time difficult recommendations, difficult because not everyone has the same opportunities. We all have different needs and different conditions. Not everyone has jobs that allow you to stay at home. Not everyone has financial means to cope with savings. The injustices of society become most evident when there is a crisis. That is precisely why crisis policy must include support for businesses. At the same time, however, we must pursue a strong health, care and welfare policy: the lifting of care, the strengthening of the unemployment fund, the introduction of lay-off aid and the temporary abolition of the withdrawal of carers. The introduction of lay-off aid and support for risk groups are and have been crucial for everyone to be able to get through this, in order for us to be able to take joint responsibility. And the general welfare policy gives everyone, not just a few, a better chance of coping with the crisis. This debate concerns the Social Security Committee's report Extended compensation to risk groups. A united committee is now calling on the government to come back with proposals to extend the right to preventive sickness benefit for risk groups – the benefits of some sickness benefit for preventive purposes, some infectious sickness benefit and some temporary parental benefit. The extension should apply until 31 March 2021. There is no doubt that the government's entry into crisis policy has been precisely to manage lives, welfare, jobs and businesses. While we in Parliament have had to deal with a record number of amending budgets, the pandemic has affected society as a whole at a furious pace. I believe that more decisions will be required in this House, and we will have to cope with new difficulties. The decision on compensation for risk groups was taken this summer and was subsequently extended. It required intensive work from both the government and the Riksdag in broad dialogue. Work was required from the agency, both in designing the regulatory framework and in getting the system in place. At the moment, the spread of infection is taking place in society, and we must act politically in order to protect and prevent contamination by people at risk. The government and the cooperation parties have been active on this issue, and just like the committee, the government announced an extension of compensation to risk groups some time ago. There is therefore broad agreement on extending the compensation to the risk groups, which I think is very good. However, as the committee points out, we must ensure that the person entitled to compensation gets it on time and avoid any glitch in the system. Madam President, I would like We are approaching an unusual Christmas celebration, and never before has the longing for a new year been greater. I think that we can already learn a lesson from crisis work so far: The best way to face a crisis is with a strong welfare society with functioning social security policies. Then we stand stronger together and together can cope with difficult challenges. The pandemic has clearly shown us that the breaks we have in health insurance, for example, must be fixed. It is not good enough for sick people to be insured, and that is why the message just given by the government to take the first steps now to make it easier for more long-term sufferers to be entitled to compensation very welcome and long-awaited. The pandemic also shows inequality, for it has been shown that people with lower incomes have been affected and are at risk of disease to a greater extent than those with higher wages. The infection has hit socially vulnerable districts harder than rich ones. This cannot continue. There is no justice in the way the pandemic strikes, and we all risk being affected by the virus. But some are more likely than others to get very sick, and we all have a responsibility to help each other. It is therefore important that we have support for people at risk, who are more likely to get seriously ill if they are infected by covid-19, and that the compensation is extended. I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-893	Madam President, I would like We can look back on 2020 and ask ourselves whether we will ever experience a similar year or whether 2020 was just a year when we learned to wash our hands, keep our distance and be careful with social intercourse. It is a year when we are talking much more about risk groups, and many have chosen to join a risk group and more or less isolated themselves. The positive thing about 2020 is that we have not seen any winter freckle disease, nor has there been a large spread of flu. In order to protect those individuals who are most at risk of having a particularly serious disease course if they are infected by covid-19, the Riksdag allocated funds for certain sickness benefit for preventive purposes, certain sickness carrier allowance and certain temporary parental allowance with a maximum of 90 days in the regulation on certain preventive sickness carrier allowance due to covid-19.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-894	The committee is again forced to make an announcement to the government when the government is acting so slow and does not see the need to extend the pre-emptive compensation needed for all those at risk. The committee has pointed out to the government that they in the risk group must not fall into a gap between the reimbursement periods, but that there is a need for a long-term change of regulation so that those at risk are not in danger of being without compensation. It is strange that the government does not see the whole of this change of regulation, but acts at the last minute and then at the request of the committee. We take responsibility for making those at risk feel safe in the ongoing pandemic, but the government does not seem to see the need for this. At the last minute, on 24 September, the government extended the temporary rule on preventive compensation to risk groups until 31 December 2020. In its announcement, the committee sees the need to extend the term of remuneration until 31 March 2021. We are about to arrive at 31 December 2020, and the risk that those at risk will be without compensation will then be borne in mind again. How can the government not see this as its responsibility? I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-897	Madam President, I would like Covid-19 came as a shock to all of us. We were taken on the bed and had no thought - out suggestions for how we should act to prevent and mitigate the damage and effects that arose. Slowly but surely, however, we have become aware and increased understanding of how we are affected, who are affected, how we can prevent us from being affected and how we can support those who have received and receive this terrible virus. It is important that we protect those at risk above all, and we have heard who these risk groups are. So, of course, I and the Center Party support the committee's proposal for a further three months' protection for these risk groups. Madam President, I would like However, I would like to point out that it is important that there is an end date. If we do not have there is a risk that one is not so eager to vaccinate when the vaccine comes. It may take longer to stop the spread, and stopping the spread is the most important thing so that we can get jobs back on track and get society to roll on. That is why we need to have the deadline for the extensions we have for risk groups. But, of course, we should be able to take new steps and extend further if what is now on the table is not enough.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-900	Madam President, I would like We should all be careful and take personal responsibility in these pandemic times. Yesterday it was reported that 174 new deaths had occurred here in Sweden as a result of covid-19 and that another 5 400 Swedes had been infected by this virus. Just before the debate, I took note of the fact that today another 35 people have been announced as deceased as a result of covid-19. This means that over 7 000 Swedes have now died and that more than a quarter of a million people have been infected. It is beyond any doubt that this virus will be stopped only by you and I repositioning our way of life. The consequences of getting covid-19 are very different, even when it comes to how long it takes to get rid of this virus. It reduces both working and functional ability. We honestly don't know the answer yet. Perhaps Judith Bruchfeld, who is associate professor, chief physician and infection specialist at Karolinska Hospital, and who also leads a project on long-term illness, has expressed it best. She said this: Studying covid is like re-entering med school. Madam President, I would like I say this as a small background to the decision that we have to make here next week to announce to the government that we will urgently return to Parliament with proposals that will allow compensation in the form of certain sickness benefits for preventive purposes. Of course, it is particularly important that we protect the most vulnerable from this virus. These people are threatened with a very serious disease course if they are infected by covid-19. We Christian Democrats have always called for preventive measures. We helped to correct what happened this autumn, namely that these very vulnerable groups remained unremunerated for some time. It is in order to avoid a replay of what happened this autumn that a united social security committee addresses this with an extension of the remuneration to risk groups for the first quarter of 2021. I am very pleased that we have a political agreement on this. Then we Christian Democrats have been sharply critical of the government's way of dealing with this. What took place last autumn should not take place. Protecting the most vulnerable is and remains important. Then, of course, there should be no glitch in the compensation. The government itself understands this. It writes in its own words: It is about protecting those individuals who are most at risk of suffering a particularly serious disease from infection with the disease. That it nevertheless happened is the riddle and what we, as a united committee, are about to see to it that does not happen again. How long are we going to pay this preventive sickness benefit? I have made it clear from the Christian Democrats that we believe that preventive sickness benefit should be paid to risk groups until we have a vaccine available so that the pandemic can be eliminated. We believe that it should be examined three months at a time, in accordance with the decision on which we agree. We have been involved in pushing forward that announcement. It is really a question of us not having a system in which we have been expressed by the government that the last December is the time horizon. Then we risk going into 2021. I share Mattias Mattias's feeling that we have never longed so much for a new year. I long for us to be able to make this joint decision. Then, in 2021, should not start with these groups that are vulnerable being affected by another glitch. I would like to thank my colleagues in the Social Security Committee very much for agreeing that this extension will take place in the first quarter of 2021.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-910	Madam President, I would like Early in the pandemic, it was clear that some people were significantly more at risk than others to become seriously ill and also to die as a result of covid-19. Therefore, the elderly and people with some underlying disease conditions were defined quite early as risk groups. There were rapid restrictions of various kinds that specifically pointed to these particular groups. Madam President, I would like Just admit that some of those restrictions were wrong. In politics, we did a little bit of learning by doing, just like health care and all the bodies that have to protect our society. There was also a somewhat later temporary possibility of receiving temporary sickness benefit for preventive purposes and infectivity benefit. It was an important, good and right measure. We Liberals pushed very strongly in the negotiations with the government both for it to be introduced and for it to be for as broad groups as possible. Then time passed, and it ended in the first period. On 5 November, the Government, with the support of us in the Liberals and the Center Party, announced that the possibility of compensation for risk groups would be extended until and on 31 March 2021. It's good and important. In this case too, we in the Liberals have pushed ahead. Madam President, I would like What applies now is that there will be no gap in the rules as it was last autumn. It is important to be able to admit wrong too, and there it was a gross error. Madam President, I would like In our opinion in the Liberals, it is now of the utmost importance that people in groups at risk should not again be caught and need to wait for the payment of compensation. This is why a united committee is now calling for the government to enable the compensation to be issued until 31 March 2021 without any gap. It shall cover the gap that is likely to arise once again. The remuneration for risk groups should thus be available for a further maximum of 90 days, and for a total of 274 days during the period 1 July 2020 to 31 March 2021. This gap is important. It's about getting in between, in limbo, without knowing whether it's coming or when it's coming and not being able to pay their rent or their food bill. It is not fair to those who are affected. It is deeply unfortunate that in some cases people have become unremunerated and are now in danger of becoming so again. It creates insecurity for people who belong to a risk group, who may have a risk person at home and who work in jobs where it is not possible to work from home. Like the committee, the Liberals consider it extremely urgent that such a situation should not arise again. Madam President, I would like On the Liberal side, we are pleased that we make decisions three months at a time as long as we blur the boundaries between them. It's three months at a time because we don't know what's going to happen to this pandemic. As Solveig Zander pointed out, a distant border is incredibly important to keep with you. It is important to understand that this is a starting and ending point in this pandemic as well. Madam President, I would like Contagion of covid-19 is now increasing in a majority of Sweden's regions and towns. Recently, a series of decisions have also been taken on strengthened general councils for several regions, and more will certainly come. There was another one this afternoon, I've been watching the news report. Therefore, it is not reasonable that an extension of the right to preventive sickness benefit to risk groups should only apply until the end of the year. It must be extended, and there must be no glitch. It's got to be connected. That is why we on the Liberal side, together with the other parties in the committee, fully support the fact that the government will urgently produce proposals that will enable the continued compensation to be made. We announce this to the government so that it can quickly come back with new proposals for decisions in this House. I support the committee's proposal in the report, Madam President.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-922	Madam President, I would like The Coronapendem has hit us with full force since March April. I guess we're in the tenth month now of this global difference. Throughout the world, people live in a completely changed everyday life and reality. In Sweden we have chosen a line that in some parts differs from other countries. But in general, similar measures are still being taken. We introduce rules and recommendations to prevent or help us. We're going to keep our distance and reduce the spread of infection. The proposal we are discussing now belongs to the second category: to enable and help us to keep our distance. Last spring, the Government took the initiative that people who are at risk of being particularly badly affected by covid-19 but who are unable to work from home or at a distance would have the opportunity to stay safe and avoid going to work but still receive financial compensation. A regulatory framework was developed. The Social Insurance Agency became the authority responsible for the implementation and payment of the compensation. It all came into force on 1 July and lasted over the summer, for three months until the last September. Late in September – perhaps a little too late – the government extended the compensation until the end of the year. But the whole set of rules did not really go along, and that was unfortunate. It took a parliamentary decision to get all the parts included. This caused a glitch — a glitch that could then be filled in for the vast majority. But that's not good. What we are doing now is deciding on a further extension of the compensation, which will apply until the last March next year. The hope is that no more extensions will actually be needed. There are not very many people involved – although it is, and has been, a very important substitute for those who are actually affected. This should be a priority group for the vaccines that we are still hoping for. However, we can also assume that many of those concerned have been helped by their employers to find other tasks that can be carried out at some distance. I would like to stress the employer's role in the matter. The question of not setting a deadline for the temporary extension has been raised. I do not think that any door should be closed for any further extension. It is nevertheless good to flag because this could be an end date for this particular compensation to risk groups. But, of course, we are following developments, and I think that if there is a need for the extension, we should also implement one. With that, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-BXejTKhHb1crcbjEE7enHf	Madam President, I would like We are now dealing with the Social Security Committee's report on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the multi-child allowance in child benefit. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our Amendment No 1. Economic family policy is extremely important for families with children in the country and especially for those with small economic margins. At the same time, it is important that each invested crown lands correctly and that family financial contributions and insurances follow time and the challenges that exist. Madam President, I would like I'll give you some credit for the history. The child benefit was introduced in Sweden in 1948 with SEK 260 per year per child and was intended to stimulate childbirth when Sweden had a period of weak population growth. They were simply worried about a decline in population in the long term. The entrance to child benefit has varied over time. As I said at the outset, it was intended to increase the population. Since then, the aim has been to provide basic financial support, and in the 21st century, child benefit has moved more towards having a level playing field by financially strengthening households with children and by compensating for the dependency burden. In 1982, the multi-child supplement was introduced to strengthen up against reduced food subsidies due to government budget deficits. There were several tax incentives for homemakers and single people with children at the time of the introduction. A further tax relief was the acquisition deduction which was then directed at single parents or the spouse who earned the least. A deduction was then made on income before tax. In 1996, the multi-child allowance for newborns was abolished and then reinstated in 1998. We can say that some things have changed, but the basic idea should, however, be to ensure that children are given a chance to grow up decently and that the state supports financially where it is needed. In the report, the main focus is to see whether the accuracy is good and whether government spending on the multi-child supplement is effective in relation to the achievement of the target, which is to contribute to a good economic standard of living for all families with children and to reduce economic differences between households with and without children. The report on the multi-child allowance states that single parents and families with multiple children are over-represented among economically weak families. The report also shows that the multi-child allowance represents a percentage of the total monthly income of the groups in question, which could also identify needs for action across other policy areas. We therefore believe that it is important to take a concerted approach to measures relating to the economic standard of living of families with children, not least for those groups which have a weak link with the labour market and are target groups for specific actions in labour market and integration policies. Parallel efforts in these policy areas could strengthen the family policy objectives of a good economic standard of living for families with children, as the Swedish National Audit Office points out. Madam President, I would like The current system, where the supplement is paid without any demand for employment or economic needs, could generally reduce work motivation and, rather, add to exclusion. Nor is it entirely unthinkable that the current system has a lock-in effect for women with multiple children, not least in exclusion areas, who, with a relatively large financial contribution, could lack the need for self-sufficiency unless they are alone. A family with five children receives a total of SEK 9 240 a month in a single child allowance each month, and this is given without having to apply or do anything. Here, we're talking about child allowances and multi-child allowances to make it clear. In this respect, I do not see how this would in any way be a women-friendly policy pursued by the government, if I may be allowed to gloat a little bit. The government is talking hotly about quota parental allowance and how important it is for women to enter the labour market as soon as possible. Here, however, we make general contributions until the children are 16 years old, at least, without any requirement whatsoever. The question is whether this is effective. The report also highlights single parents with a weak economy as a group where accuracy could increase. The Swedish Democrats agree and want the government to investigate and produce proposals aimed at single parents. Here, too, one could say that the feminist government is missing the target. Statistics show that a large proportion of single parents are women with a weak economy. It could be a good and accurate measure and strengthen economic equality in the long term. Madam President, I would like The Government refers to the housing allowance and maintenance allowance report to be presented on 1 March 2021 in response to the report on the multi-child allowance. The Swedish democrats, like the National Revi sion, believe that this investigation does not deal with the issue widely enough and that there is a need to look more closely at the multi-child supplement. We would therefore like to see further examination of the design and broadening of the mandate to include analyses and actions in the field of labour market and integration policy, and to look at how different policy areas can be linked together in order to achieve the objectives set. For the sake of clarity, I would like to add, for those of you who are listening, that in this regard we are talking about the multi-child allowance and not about the child allowance. The Swedish Democrats have a generous and flexible family policy and strengthen most financial support that can be obtained. However, we see it as important to actually look carefully at the actual design of the multi-child allowance.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-946	Madam President, I would like Today, we are discussing the government's response to the Swedish National Audit Office regarding the multi-child allowance. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the accuracy of the multiple child supplement for child number two. The result of that review is a decline in the effectiveness of family economic policies. The objective of strengthening families with the weakest economy has not been as accurate since the introduction of the second child supplement, which took place in 2005. The Swedish National Audit Office has looked at the income and costs of families with children and found that families with three or more children and single parents are over-represented among the families that are most economically vulnerable. As we heard the previous speaker say, the government has set up an investigation focusing on indebtedness and accuracy in terms of housing allowance and maintenance support. The study will follow up these grants and look at how to prevent parents who receive housing allowance or pay maintenance support from becoming indebted. It will also look at the incentives to increase the labour income of these people and the accuracy of achieving the economic family policy objectives. From what I can see, there is only a small link to the comparison of the multi-child allowance in the housing allowance. As mentioned above, the investigation will be completed in March 2021. Madam President, I would like In its report, the Swedish National Audit Office recommends that the Government broaden the ongoing investigation to review the multi-child supplement with the aim of improving the distributional accuracy of financial policies and the ability to contribute to a good economic standard of living for all families with children. This is the mission that the Swedish National Audit Office thinks the government should look further at. What the government does is thank you for the report and says that it has given in-depth knowledge but does not think that it needs to give the investigation a supplementary directive. It is said that this is taken care of in the investigation, but, as I said just now, I see only a minor link to the comparison with the multi-child allowance in the housing allowance. Madam President, I would like Me and the Center Party think differently. We think that the government should broaden the investigation and add to the review of the multi-child supplement from more perspectives than this comparison alone. The reason is that we believe that there is a value in always monitoring the objectives and results of all public funds. Have they produced the effects that were the idea? It is important to make good use of our common resources and that they meet the right distributional criteria. It is important to review both how more people increase their income and how the benefit systems we have meet the most vulnerable families with children. Children who grow up in financial vulnerability are at risk of being in the same situation themselves, and it is important to break this circle. The Center Party proposes that the government look at whether the money used for the multi-child allowance can be used today to, for example, adjust the housing allowance. All investigations take time, and it is important that they do. For this reason, it would be wise for the government to extend the mandate further, even if this investigation will then be delayed for a few months. Otherwise, we risk losing several years in evaluating this part, because it has the time to set up a new investigation, carry out the investigation and then come up with new proposals. With that, Madam President, I would like to endorse reservation 2.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-954	Madam President, I would like Just as we have heard from the two previous speakers, the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the multi-child supplement and made recommendations to the Government on how to make the supplement more effective and effective. We Social Democrats support the committee's proposal for a decision and call for all motions to be rejected. As I mentioned in a previous debate here today, the Social Security Committee has a wide range of issues that may not always be judged by the name. Family economic policy is one of four areas and contains in itself a variety of own issues, where the multiple child allowance is one. The report from the Swedish National Audit Office, Madam President, contains, as usual, a lot of useful information, as reports from the Swedish National Audit Office usually do, and thought-provoking reasoning that is of great benefit to us in the committee and to all who are interested in equality or economic economy – or why not both parts. The recommendations from the Swedish National Audit Office are about, as we have heard earlier from here, that the government should review the multi-child supplement in order for it to be more distributively accurate, i.e. that the state's money should be used for what they are intended to be used for. In particular, it points to the fact that the multi-child allowance was changed in 2005 to include also families with two children, instead of three or more as it was in the past. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that it will be less accurate that more families are covered by the benefit and that it might be more sensible to use the money in a different way. Madam President, I would like For us Social Democrats, a more equal and just world is what we are constantly striving for, a world where anyone who needs the support of society will get it and where those who are supposed to be the support of society will get it. This becomes particularly clear when it comes to issues relating to children's rights. We are proud that we have a system with both child allowances and multi-child allowances. But we're not happy there. We cannot be content as long as there are families where the wallet is constantly present in the tank because it is replenished far too rarely and with far too little, while the need for money only increases. We cannot be satisfied as long as there are children who do not have their rights satisfied. Above all, such a lack of money is difficult to concentrate on other things, regardless of whether it is a job you might go to or whether it is a school or preschool for the children. For it is not just the provider who is concerned about what the economy should look like. Madam President, I would like What I just mentioned is not new knowledge. Two years ago, the Government appointed an investigation called the BUMS investigation, which will review the rules for housing allowance and maintenance support, among other things. It aimed, inter alia, to reduce the debt of the group benefiting from these subsidies, while increasing the accuracy of the beneficiaries and the amount they receive. As part of this, the investigator will also review the multiple child allowance. As has been mentioned here, this will be presented in March next year, and that is why, like most of the committee, we think it is reasonable to wait for this before we take any further decisions on this issue. With that, Madam President, I would once again like to support the committee's proposal.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-966	Madam President, I would like The general and general child benefit was introduced in the 1940s, 1948. It has contributed through decades to strengthening the financial situation of families with children and reducing child poverty. But it has also helped to smooth out gender gaps and increase gender equality. Child benefit is a sign that society has a responsibility for children. The fact that it is universal, equal for all and not need-tested makes it a very democratic support. It still has a distributional importance, and that is important. But it gives parents the freedom to use the money as they perceive it best. It does not contribute to social stigma or the like, and it is a cost-effective contribution, precisely because there is no need to test needs. The risk of cheating is small. We will safeguard the general and general child benefit. We should be happy and proud of our child benefit and the long history of child benefit. The Swedish National Audit Office has now reviewed the multi-child allowance in the child allowance. It is a contribution that is not given to everyone, but only to families with more than one child. A further distributional aspect has thus been added. The Swedish National Audit Office's review has been made on the basis of the objective that economic family policy should contribute with a good economic standard of living for all families with children. We're supposed to have equal parenthood. And we want a more even distribution of resources. The results of the review are that the multi-child supplement contributes positively to these objectives but that it could be even better and work even more effectively. It would be a higher distributional accuracy if, for example, the multi-child allowance for two-child families were abolished and the funds were passed on to families with three or more children. That is one of the proposals in the report. But there are also other variants and other suggestions for better accuracy. Yes, there is reason to review this support, i.e. the multi-child allowance. As announced in the Government's response to the report, such a review is already under way in the framework of the study on housing allowance and maintenance support that was set up at the end of the last term of office and that comes with the final report on 1 March this spring. Both the size of the compensation and which families should be covered should be reviewed – we think absolutely – just as the Swedish National Audit Office proposes. Both of these tasks are also, I think, quite clear within the directive for the ongoing investigation. Madam President, I would like Waiting for spring and for the inquiry, I support the proposal in the report.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-975	Madam President, I would like This is actually Julia Kronlid's question. I will read out her speech on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the way back to work after denied sickness benefit. I would like to begin by calling in paragraph 1 for the committee's proposal to be approved and in paragraph 2, for the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats to vote in favour of the reservation. The Swedish National Audit Office's report is based on surveys by several state employers on how these work with conversion and rehabilitation. The report shows serious shortcomings in support for the individual. Although there are clear legal requirements for the establishment of a plan for the individual, neither follow-up, coordination nor exchange of information in the process of supporting the sick person's return to work. The consequence has been that, in addition to the announcement of being insured and denied sickness benefit, people are left to their fate and do not receive the right support and assistance for returning to work. In addition, the investigation also pointed out that the Social Insurance Agency was not notified or collected information from the sick leaver's workplace about possible plans for adaptation or rehabilitation. Unfortunately, it has also proved to be more the rule than the exception that sick leavers are not offered conversion meetings between Arbetsförmedlingen and Försäkringskassan where sick leavers receive important information about, for example, enrollment in Arbetsförmedlingen and the regulations surrounding this, which in some cases can have serious consequences for the individual's economy if the rules are not complied with. Madam President, I would like In view of these serious shortcomings, the government has set up some investigations, but the committee does not consider this sufficient. It is therefore gratifying that the committee has been able to agree on an announcement to the government in which requests from us in the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Centers are partially approved. The Social Insurance Committee believes that the government should urgently adopt a holistic approach to facilitate the return to work of the person denied sickness benefit. Cooperation and exchange of information between Arbetsförmedlingen and Försäkringskassan must be made more effective. Conversion meetings must take place early in the process and be effective, and effective measures to facilitate the return to work must be developed and implemented. It is also important that there is an exchange of information between Försäkringskassan and the employer well before day 180 before a decision on denied sickness benefit. In addition to this, we had a couple of other proposals and have a joint reservation with the Christian Democrats who have made similar proposals. In this regard, we point out, among other things, that instead of the Social Insurance Agency informing the insured person of a possible rejection decision, it should be a matter of priority for the authority to draw up an individual and long-term plan for returning to work in good time. The government should also decide today that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency should request a plan for a return to work from the employer to a greater extent. We also believe that there must be closer cooperation between Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen regarding the need for improved information on sickness benefit-based income. What can happen today is that a person who is considered by the Social Insurance Agency to have the capacity to work is insured even though the person is still ill. The same person is assessed by Arbetsförmedlingen not to be employable and thus entered with obstacles. This may later have the consequence that Försäkringskassan zeros the person's SGI, i.e. the sickness benefit-based income. This decision puts people in an impossible dead end and a hopelessly difficult economic situation. This is a regulatory framework that has resulted in human suffering year after year, and it needs to be corrected so that the assessment from Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen is consistent. Madam President, I would like In addition to what is highlighted in the report and in the reservation, we believe that the government should review the system from scratch, because, although they have worked a large part of their lives before they became ill, people can have their sickness benefit-based income completely zeroed due to lack of information and bureaucratic regulations. A return to work should also be made much more flexible where the return can take place in small steps and with the opportunity to try to start work or study at a low level while maintaining remuneration. Throughout the problem is that sick people receive too little support and too little access to adequate rehabilitation, while we have too square a regulatory framework toensure people before they are ready to go back to work. This has not least been noticed now that health professionals who have been setting up and caring for covid-19-sickness themselves have become long-term ill. They have since been secured due to rigid regulations. The heavy burden on healthcare also means that access to other care and treatment is limited. In such a situation, it is encouraging that the government is now working on changing the regulatory framework for the rehabilitation chain to prevent inhumane insurance. However, it is sad that it would take a pandemic for the government to wake up and act. At the same time, it should be said that if you have the ability to return to work, no one is well off, albeit in small steps. I therefore hope that the government will take on board today's announcement and put the support for the individual in the process of returning to work in order.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-992	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office's report clearly shows problems and difficulties in dealing with sick leave. They do not have contact with the employer about the possibility for the sick person to return to present work. They also do not inform the sick person in good time of the decision it will be, rejection or approval. They also do not communicate with Arbetsförmedlingen and do not communicate the consequences of being registered with Arbetsförmedlingen as a job seeker with an obstacle. It's gravitating. And that's what the Swedish National Audit Office mentions in its report. There are four really serious mistakes that lead to major consequences for the person who is on sick leave. In addition, it is the country's large authorities that are failing in their mission to submit plans for the return of a sick worker to work. This applies to no less than Arbetsförmedlingen, Försäkringskassan itself, the Police Authority, the Prison Service and the Swedish Tax Agency. This, if anything, shows what unclear rules apply to the sick leave process. The government therefore lacks clarity as to how the authorities should act. This is particularly true of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. For years now, I and the Center Party have been pointing out and proposing ways of making things clearer and better. But the government has not taken it upon itself, and they have not acted in any way. It is the people who most of all need help and support that are affected. Madam President, I would like The last time I and the Center Party presented a committee initiative, which allowed the government to react a little faster. The main point was to provide clear guidelines that could not be misunderstood. But we have not yet seen exactly what the government will propose in this respect. What I suggested was to clarify how the sick should be able to return to work, first and foremost with their employer but then with another employer. The third option was to find out what work could otherwise be done. This presupposes that rehabilitation is provided and that it can be completed. I expect the government to act on my proposal. This would, among other things, solve the problems and shortcomings that the Swedish National Audit Office's report shows. The committee's proposal is a step in the right direction. That is why I and the Center Party are in favour of it. However, I also support my reservation and that of the Centre Party in paragraph 2, which is about giving employers the opportunity to be involved in the support they need to give to a worker who is going to return to work.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-999	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that there are major shortcomings in the coordination and management of those who have been denied sickness benefit and are therefore to return to work. That, of course, is unacceptable. The Left Party therefore proposes that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency should have a coordinating obligation. We want Försäkringskassan to call the sick person, Arbetsförmedlingen, employer, treating doctor and trade union organisation to a meeting if the risk of denied sickness benefit exists. People who are denied sickness benefit often today lose their sick payable income, SGI. One reason for this is a marked lack of understanding of what it is like to be affected by disease. People who are ill may find it difficult to take in information due to pain or cognitive difficulties caused by the disease. You don't have to be Einstein to understand that the person who is ill and exposed to the pressure of the risk of being denied sickness benefit can have problems handling all the information given. The fact that you have not been told, or have not understood, that from day one you must appear at Arbetsförmedlingen and even though you are ill be active job seekers is not surprising. You can hear how crazy this is, to be an active job seeker and on sick leave! Madam President, I would like The whole point of departure is wrong. The system is wrong. It has been for a long time, not least since the alliance government dismantled social security and started the hunt for the sick. So it has to be done again, the whole health insurance and the rehab chain, because it doesn't work. Rehabilitation must once again become more individualised and realistic. And chronically ill people must be entitled to long-term sickness benefits on which to live. Madam President, I would like The percentage insured at day 180 has quadrupled since the Social Democratic Government introduced the target of nine sick days and has increased from 29 to 40 percent between 2019 and 2020 to now achieve some kind of record. The record seems to be based on the introduction of something called quality assurance work by Försäkringskassan. Without the bureaucrat Swedish, this means that they double-check all decisions on yes to extended sickness benefit. It is clear that the Social Insurance Agency must be governed more clearly. This is not how an authority that should exist for citizens can function. Last week we proposed increased governance, but unfortunately there was no majority behind that proposal. Madam President, I would like More than half of those denied sickness benefit do not return to work. The fact that they don't, for the most part, is because they're just sick. This is not, for the most part, an administrative error. It is simply the case that if you are ill, you are sick, regardless of what the rules and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency decide. Madam President, I would like Often it is said nowadays that the important thing is that everyone denied sickness benefit understands what is decided and why they do not receive sickness benefit, not the decision itself. Of course, you should strive for intelligibility. But to be honest, what is there to understand? You are ill but by a magic formula has someone with the power to decide decided that you are instead healthy, and you therefore get no compensation. Your situation and what is actually quite real are totally denied. Acceptance is what will save us from evil. But acceptance doesn't build welfare systems. It does not cause the feeling of humiliation to disappear when one has been deeply wronged. The Left Party has been pushing for a long time to change health insurance. Only a week ago, there was no majority for it. Since then, we have managed to bring several parties with us to take a first important step in that direction. It's incredibly important. This is largely due to the fact that the sick themselves have struggled for a long time and have dared to step forward and tell the story. Many are the ones who should have a big thank you. Christine Udding is a nurse who got into the pandemic and got infected in the job. She's become like a friend to me. She is today denied sickness benefit even though she is long-term ill in covid-19. She and other sick people with different types of diagnoses stood at the front and testified about the system's shortcomings. As a result, the Left Party underwent a revision of the trial at day 180. But it does not start to apply until March. Is Christine and others who have fought for this to happen now going unremunerated? It's unthinkable to me. The Left Party therefore proposed by today at the latest that the government's temporary regulation to prevent people from being insured during the pandemic be extended and broadened to include Christine and other sick people. We assume that more parties will join in on this. Anything else would be unthinkable. Many thousands of people are applying for support only this year, even though they are also on sick leave by a doctor. For those and all who have lost their SGI as a result of the years of rigid regulations and unfair decisions, society must take responsibility. That is why the Left Party wants a government crisis commission to be appointed to review this, because it is not worthy. People who have been thrown out without compensation must be entitled to it again. Madam President, I would like I think we should devote less time to bureaucratic considerations, details and redrafting and more to the very essence. It is about what is really required if we are to be able to fix health insurance for real and to be able to get workplaces that do not have a work environment that runs out of us. It must work as intended, so that sick people are entitled to compensation and the employer takes responsibility for the work environment. With this, I call for the Left Party's reservation to be approved.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-1013	Madam President, I would like Here and now we are debating a very important report from the Swedish National Audit Office on the way back to work for those who have been denied sickness benefit. It is a report that identifies a number of problems that exist. In the Social Security Committee, we have agreed to make an announcement that the government should urgently take a holistic approach to facilitate the return to work of the person denied sickness benefit. That is a good thing, and it is something that we Christian Democrats have pushed for it to happen. In addition to paragraph 1, which I naturally support, the Christian Democrats also have a reservation – reservation 1 – together with the Swedish Democrats. There is more to be done. The Swedish National Audit Office clearly points out, we believe, a lack of cooperation between authorities. It doesn't work the way it's supposed to. Let us take conversion meetings as an example. Conversion meetings are something that Försäkringskassan offers a person who is either at risk of no longer being entitled to sickness benefit or who is refused. The meeting will take place with Arbetsförmedlingen, and the sick person will then receive the necessary information from Arbetsförmedlingen in order to make the transition to working life as smooth as possible. The Swedish National Audit Office writes that these conversion meetings, which I assume everyone in this House thinks are important, are deemed to lack added value. I bounced when I read this in the report. On the other hand, it was nothing compared to how I reacted when I then read how the government responds to how it should now deal with this: You will have to excuse me, but this is certainly not a sustainable solution. One can say, to make use of sports terminology, that the government leaves the walkover. We Christian Democrats believe that those who fall between the seats here deserve something better, at least political leadership. One measure we propose is to allocate leadership to these meetings to an authority and to develop measures to ensure that these meetings are as effective and effective as they are supposed to be. Madam President, I would like The report from the Swedish National Audit Office highlights something important, namely that the rehabilitation process does not start on time. One consequence of not getting started in time is that the person receiving the aid does not receive the support to which he or she is entitled. When we Christian Democrats were involved in reforming health insurance, it was to support and better help people in need of sickness benefit to return to their previous everyday lives. After a sick leave, they would have the opportunity to return to work. The rehabilitation chain is based on accountability by employers, authorities and health care. It is not only the individual who bears the responsibility of being restored mentally and/ or physically. The fact that efforts are not made in time is serious, because we read in the Swedish National Audit Office's report about the consequences that this has. Here, of course, the government can say that it is someone else's responsibility, which is quite common in these times. But we believe that the government can and should take the initiative here. An investigation was submitted to the government in April this year. It is called Together for a well-functioning sick leave and rehabilitation process. There are proposals to oblige Försäkringskassan to request a rehabilitation plan from employers more often and that Försäkringskassan should have a clearer mandate to lead what is called coordination. Madam President, I would like We are now debating the way back after denied sickness benefit. It would be a serious misconduct for me not to raise this point about which we are reading today, namely people who are insured when they are denied sickness benefit as a result of long-term illness in covid-19. A way back is just as important for this group. But what if there is no way at all? The road may not have been built because you are on a completely new and unknown land. You don't know how to build the road. For the long-term sufferers, this is an adequate description. There's no way back right now. They are denied a path because we lack knowledge, opportunity and resources. Being insured after day 180 is unacceptable against that background. When the Swedish National Audit Office wrote its report, long-term illness in covid-19 was an unknown phenomenon. Today we know very little. But what we do know is that today's regulations combined with the low level of knowledge make the way back impossible to describe to this new unique group of people who are now being secured. That is why the Christian Democrats, together with the M oderates, presented a committee initiative on a temporary special exception for those who have fallen ill in covid-19 and have reduced working capacity. We suggested that they be tested against regular work after day 180. This initiative was supported by the S verige democrats, but the other parties voted against. It may be worth noting when we are now discussing the urgent question of how to help people back to work after denied sickness benefit.
i-5eXc671W6b6QvjKfR9JJoD	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the Liberals' reservation 4 in paragraph 2. Madam President, I would like The very foundation of a welfare country is that everyone has the right to basic security. The measure by which a welfare society is measured is how well it takes care of its smallest, weakest and most vulnerable. Madam President, I would like We should all be able to feel safe from illness, both long-term and short-term. It is therefore crucial that we ensure, through the health insurance system, that all people are entitled to support if they are unable to work as a result of illness. The health insurance must of course be active and individually adapted to the situation of the sick person. The period of sick leave shall provide time and opportunity for support, rehabilitation and recovery. Only then can you get back to work and your normal life as soon as possible. All of this places huge demands on us as politicians. A constant reform effort is needed to enable the social security system to deliver at every time and every moment the security and responsiveness to the individual that one can legitimately expect as a citizen of a welfare country, while at the same time using taxpayers' money legally secure and effective according to the working line that has served Sweden so well. In light of this, I and the Liberals have started work to ensure that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's working methods will undergo major reform work and develop. Today's insurance fund wrestles repeatedly with low public confidence. This is not sustainable, Madam President. Trust and trust in the authority that has the ultimate mission to assist the individual in his most vulnerable and undressed moments of life must not be broken. There can be no doubt about it. That is why we from the Liberals have in the autumn raised two motions in which new moves are being demanded. On Parliament's table are therefore now several important proposals for steps towards a better functioning health insurance system. This includes the proposal to investigate a reformed way of working for Försäkringskassan through increased cooperation between healthcare, Försäkringskassan, Arbetsförmedlingen and the individual. More support and guidance is needed through the disease period and authorities who strive to assist in the healing process, not counteract it, as today seems to be the case. Madam President, I would like It is with this in mind that we have taken note of the Government's letter regarding the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the path to work after denied sickness benefit. Part of the review has concerned Försäkringskassan's information to sick leave in connection with refusal decisions and the transition from Försäkringskassan to Arbetsförmedlingen in connection with the conversion. Madam President, I would like The review shows that there are significant shortcomings – which is a rather thin word in this context – in the offers of what is called conversion meeting and which the previous speaker described very well. The insured person does not get access to important facts, and communication with persons with disabilities lacks much, the Swedish National Audit Office points out. This is very serious criticism given that the individual is clearly at a disadvantage to one of our largest authorities. Madam President, I would like To this, the government responds in very smudged and general terms that the review will form the basis for the continued work. But this House expects more, Madam President. We expect concrete information. We demand action from the government in the light of the shortcomings revealed by the Swedish National Audit Office, which combined with the low level of trust of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, are already devastating to the individual who is in a vulnerable position. Therefore, Madam President, in accordance with our reservation, the Riksdag should announce to the Government that an investigation will be made into how coordination after denied sick leave can be strengthened. Such an investigation will primarily consider improved working methods in the contact between Försäkringskassan, healthcare, employers, Arbetsförmedlingen and the individual. The Social Insurance Agency, Madam President, should be a partner for the sick in the work to come back. This is not the case today, which is highlighted very clearly by the Swedish National Audit Office's review. I support the committee's proposal under paragraph 1 and reservation 4 under paragraph 2.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-1034	Madam President, I would like Right now, many sick people are calling to tell you that they are at risk of being insured. These are nurses who took great responsibility early in the Corona crisis, child care workers, teachers, preschool teachers and care staff. Often it is people who work in the welfare professions. That's the injustice in health insurance. It affects women more often than men. I also believe that there are many of us here who have a friend or close relative who can testify to how bad it works. Our health insurance needs to be renovated. Today, people are being squeezed. The system is based on fixed deadlines, and the so-called rehabilitation chain is not working. Now in times of crisis it becomes extra clear. The rules and interpretations of these do not give sick people the right to financial support. In addition, statistics from Försäkringskassan show that more and more applications for sickness benefit are rejected at day 180 and thereafter. It is a dramatic increase, but it follows a trend. This means that many today are forced back to work even if they are ill or are allowed to apply for support. When you're at your weakest, society should be at its strongest, I mean. Since last spring it is on the table fresh investigation suggestions on how we can fix the health insurance. They are ready to be implemented, but we have lacked the majority needed to do so. In the end, however, several parties have turned and joined. This means that we can now take the first step to make improvements. This is very welcome. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the path to work after denied sickness benefit and the Social Security Committee's report. I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations. Let's be honest! We know that rehabilitation within the framework of health insurance needs to be developed, but at the same time experience with the functioning of the rehabilitation chain shows that today the focus is more on monitoring stricter system boundaries than on supporting sick people to get them back to work. The report we are debating today supports this view. The review also supports the work undertaken by the government to increase the important role of rehabilitation in the process of sick leave. I thought I'd get back to that. The Swedish National Audit Office finds in the survey that many employers lack a proper plan for the return of sick leave to work, that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency does not too much demand the efforts well before day 180 in the rehabilitation chain and that there is a lack of clear and understandable information to the sick leaver well in advance of a refusal. It is something that would give a better understanding of what happens when you get a rejection. The Swedish National Audit Office also recommends that the meetings should be developed in connection with denied sickness benefit so that those who are denied and do not put themselves at the disposal of the labour market do not lose their financial security. We Social Democrats have, ever since the moderate-led government changed health insurance, been clear that sick people must be given the opportunity to become healthy. The harsh and angular rules of today's system must therefore be filed down, and rehabilitation must be the focus. We welcome a holistic approach in which both authorities and employers understand and assume their responsibility for reducing sick leave, improving the working environment and ensuring that the person on sick leave receives relevant efforts and rehabilitation in order to get back to work as quickly as possible. The report we are debating shows that many today prefer to try to return sick people to their jobs rather than risk being insured. And many continue to work to the same extent as before the sick leave. This, in turn, results in more people returning to sick leave after 9 - 15 months. For me, it shows that we have important work to do in the regulations, but also that more employers will assume their responsibilities for rehabilitation. We therefore agree with what the government says in its response to the report and also welcome the fact that a united committee calls on the government to continue its efforts to take a comprehensive approach to health insurance. The government has started this work by strengthening the role and place of rehabilitation in health insurance. Several studies have made proposals, and we have heard about this earlier in the debate. In an assignment to Försäkringskassan this autumn, they say that the agency will return with answers to how follow-up of matters and decision-making in health insurance can become clearer and more understandable. During the previous term of office, the reform Enhanced rehabilitation and return to work with clear demands on the employer to develop a plan for returning to work together with financial support for rehabilitation. In addition, the coordination responsibility of Försäkringskassan was clarified. This reform is currently being evaluated by the Social Security Inspection, and together with the proposals from the investigation Together for a well-functioning sick leave and rehabilitation process, further steps can be taken for better rehabilitation. It is also important to strengthen the employer's role and responsibility in rehabilitation, and it is crucial to improve the working environment and thereby reduce sick leave. A good working environment with good working conditions, and not least a systematic well-functioning work environment where employers and trade union representatives work together, is crucial to ensure that people can be healthy. Surely the Corona crisis has clearly shown us that it is important for this to work? Madam President, I would like Let me finish where I started. A week ago, the government and the cooperation parties gave information, and now the first steps are being taken towards improved health insurance by enabling more people to receive sickness benefit after day 180. This is an important message, and it is the first time since 2008 that we agree in broad agreement in Parliament that we should strengthen health insurance, make it more understandable and fair. It will give people the opportunity to become healthy. It is absolutely crucial that health insurance works, both for everyone affected by the disease and for confidence in the system. The sick person must be entitled to security. To force people into poverty makes no one healthier — quite the contrary. Fixing health insurance is about justice, equality and equality. My answer to you who are in touch with me and to other Members with stories of rejection and fear of being insured, to all of you who have taken great responsibility during the Corona crisis, to the welfare workers and to all of you who have worked a long and exhausting life is that we Social Democrats see the rifts in health insurance, and we are not satisfied. We are going to improve health insurance and start this work now in line with the announcement that came last week. But we are also ready to take further steps to strengthen rehabilitation and improve health insurance.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-1055	Madam President, I would like The number of sick people has varied considerably during the 2000s. At the highest, it was 2002. About 900 000 people were enrolled with Försäkringskassan. Now we see about 600 000 people on sick leave. There are a large number of people in need of treatment and rehabilitation, and it is of great importance that all parties involved take their responsibility in this process in order for it to be as good as possible for the individual. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed five of our largest government agencies to see if they meet the legal requirements that exist. The report clearly shows that none of the authorities are doing this. The rehabilitation chain is a well-functioning chain to follow for sick leavers and other parties involved. But if someone along the chain doesn't live up to what's required, the whole rehab chain breaks. No chain is stronger than the weakest link. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office's review shows shortcomings in the process of return in the event of denied sickness benefit. The state authorities do not comply with the legal requirement to draw up a plan for returning to work in all cases of illness. The Social Insurance Agency lacks information about employers' efforts in about 25 per cent of the cases examined. It is uncertain whether the information provided by Försäkringskassan to the sick person who is about to approach day 180 and register with Arbetsförmedlingen in many cases reaches the sick person. What the lack of information until the sick person is due to, if it is unclear or otherwise, is difficult to say. But communication is lacking with great clarity. The Swedish National Audit Office has examined whether the process of returning to work in the event of denied sickness benefit works effectively. The examination has been carried out in the light of the requirement for sickness insurance to be converted due to further refusals on the application for sickness benefit. Madam President, I would like In a refusal decision of a sick certificate, different situations arise. About 50 per cent are back in regular work 6– 12 months after rejection. Many continue to work at the level they had in the rejection decision, and a large part returns to a new period of sick leave within 9 - 15 months. It is important that the employer has a clear plan for returning to work, and it is lacking in just over 30% of all cases examined. The Social Insurance Agency always informs insured persons of any doubts regarding the granting of sickness benefit. However, the Försäkringskassan does not always inform about a forthcoming rejection in good time. Any person who receives a refusal of sickness benefit must be offered a conversion meeting, which takes place on very few occasions. According to the Swedish National Audit Office's review, it is unclear what value a conversion meeting has. Of those enrolled in the Employment Service, some are categorized as job seekers with obstacles, and these people are not given any help in transition. That information never reaches the sick person. Madam President, I would like The review carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office is of great importance in order to highlight the need for a change in how we work with the rehabilitation chain, how communication takes place with the actors involved and how important it is for the administrator at Försäkringskassan to take in a comprehensive picture of the sick leave so that the right decision can be made. Today, many diagnoses are missing from the Social Insurance Agency's medical decision support, which means that many people who are on sick leave with psychiatric diagnoses do not get the right assessment. In all the statistics that can be read, mental illness increases the most when it comes to sick leave, and therefore a decision support is needed that is adapted to psychiatric diagnosis in a completely different way than today. We need employers to take greater responsibility at an early stage and make a rehabilitation plan for returning to work together with their employees. In an announcement to the government, the committee has highlighted the need to address all these shortcomings that the Swedish National Audit Office has seen in the large agencies that have been examined. It is not as difficult as communication, and it is in this review a continuous problem for all the audited authorities. If the state's own large authorities cannot meet statutory requirements regarding the rehabilitation chain, how can we impose that requirement on all small and medium-sized enterprises with much less resources? Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-1068	Madam President, I would like The overall purpose of the health insurance system is to provide the individual with security when you fall ill – financial compensation for a shorter or longer period of time. If you are supposed to be able to return to work, you should receive support and help with rehabilitation. If it turns out that you will need to change jobs, you should get support in that transition. Those who are unlikely to be able to return to work at all or can only return to a small part should be able to receive sickness benefit and feel secure in that form of support. That's the way it should be. The report we are debating today is based on a report from the Swedish National Audit Office, which has examined what happens when you do not receive sickness benefit even though you are ill – the way back to work after a decision on the refusal of sickness benefit from Försäkringskassan. A negative decision is defined by the fact that the Social Insurance Agency and the insured person make a different assessment of the disease, or rather the effect of the disease on the ability to work. This, being rejected, is something that happens. And as we can probably say, it happens a little too often, and it happens more and more often – especially after the point of six months into sick leave when the assessment of work capacity is to be made against the whole labour market. In the report, the Swedish National Audit Office makes no assessment of the rehabilitation chain itself. But it would be almost unethical, Madam President, if, in the situation where we are, with a health insurance system that shows open breaks, we were not to back down one step and at least say something about sick people being denied. Because if we had a functioning, secure system that you can trust, it wouldn't have been a problem. But the system we have, with the rehabilitation chain, which the bourgeois majority introduced in 2008 and which the Green Party then voted against, is fundamentally problematic. We are fed with stories from people who are too sick to work but still get no from Försäkringskassan. We've been reading reports from the Inspec tion for Social Security, ISF. We have read the various reports of the Health Insurance investigation. We have Mandus Frykman's investigation into the sick leave process. And about a month ago, the scientist Niklas Altermark came with the book The Rejection Machine. The picture is quite clear: The rehabilitation chain system does not work. It is quite clear that we need a reform agenda to repair the rifts in health insurance. I am grateful that we have a government that is now stepping towards safe health insurance for everyone. But we're not there yet. The Green Party wants to go further. We want to implement the proposals in the ongoing investigations. We have in the government set up another investigation into the sickness and activity benefits. But we have more suggestions. This is about the reasons behind the denials. But, Madam President, we should actually back off one more step and ask ourselves: why do people get sick at all? What can we do to reduce the inflow into health insurance? What is required for us to switch to more sustainable lives and working life? We are likely to find ourselves in answers such as safety at work, shorter working hours and reduced stress. But it's also about what we eat, what we do and how we live our lives. Sustainability at all stages of life is a fundamental issue for the Green Party, which cannot be decoupled from health care or health insurance policies. But back to the National Auditor's report. The Swedish National Audit Office has examined employees of five large government agencies who have been ill for some time and who have been insured or denied sickness benefit during their illness period. The questions have been about what happens to these people during the process on the way back to work or, alternatively, back to a new period of sick leave for those who failed work. The Swedish National Audit Office examines the actors in this process, i.e.:
i-adebd0cbfc3283ca-1081	中 The Social Insurance Agency – does it receive information from employers about what efforts have been made? Does Försäkringskassan itself provide the person with the right information at the right time? If they need to change and look for a new job throughout the labour market, do you accept the people who are balled from Försäkringskassan? Does the interaction between the two authorities in this handover process work? The result of the review is somewhat disappointing. Employers do not always draw up plans for returning to work as they should. The Social Insurance Agency does not receive information from employers to the extent that can be expected. Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen do not do their parts either; they do not call for conversion meetings as they should. And the information provided by Försäkringskassan to the sick does not always reach out, which of course is very bad. The Swedish National Audit Office does not criticise the government. On the other hand, a number of recommendations are made to the two authorities, which are of such a nature that it may be reasonable for the government to actually take a holistic approach to this process, as a unanimous committee suggests. The government has taken several measures, as set out in the report's response. Both ISF and Försäkringskassan have been commissioned to follow up, evaluate and report on measures. However, as the committee also states, a concerted approach is needed. We have a sprained health insurance system, and this is one of the parts that really needs to be corrected. With this, Madam President, I support the report.
