i-f6adaba589471443-1	Mr President, I would like to This is a proposal from the Government that the Government wants to be able to provide regulations regarding certain temporary exemptions from the Planning and Construction Act, PBL, in order to meet temporary needs for field hospitals, tent buildings and other premises in the wake of covid-19 so that healthcare can handle and face such a crisis. That is very reasonable, we believe. We of the Moderate a are fully behind it. We wish that the same possibility of exemptions from the Planning and Construction Act could also be given for municipal care activities. Unfortunately, far too many people living in retirement homes have been infected. Unfortunately, it is not entirely unthinkable – there is rather a great risk – that even municipal care activities would therefore need new temporary premises. It could be a matter of evacuating and evacuating parts of or entire accommodation. Then we want this possibility also to be available for the municipalities. I think we can all agree that it would be extremely unfortunate if construction rules were to stand in the way of helping and protecting vulnerable groups of people at risk in this crisis. It should also be mentioned that Sweden's Municipalities and Regions have also raised the need for this. In this connection, I would like to express my support for our reservation that the government should come back as soon as possible with a proposal covering municipal care as well.
i-f6adaba589471443-6	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the CU27. Sweden and the outside world are in a very difficult situation and must plan for extraordinary measures in response to the pandemic of the outbreak of the disease covid-19. The increased need for care gives rise to an acute shortage of care places, including morgues and other functions needed to perform care. The lack creates a need to temporarily create additional places, for example through field hospitals or by resorting to premises that are not normally used for this purpose. In the healthcare sector, there is also a need to be able to identify who is carrying the disease in order to avoid other patients and staff becoming infected. Such needs may also lead to the need for temporary solutions, such as reception tents for sampling or for an initial medical assessment in connection with an emergency department. We therefore believe that it is reasonable for the PBL to include a legislative authorisation to allow the government to provide for temporary derogations from certain requirements and other provisions of the PBL on the spread of a social disease poses a real risk that health facilities will not be sufficient and if necessary for the necessary measures to be taken quickly. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats support, like a united committee, the Government's proposal to amend the Planning and Construction Act. The amendment means that the Government may provide for exceptions to certain provisions of the Planning and Construction Act if the spread of a social disease poses a significant risk. The exceptions to the Planning and Construction Act may relate to provisions on building permits, demolition permits and land permits and the requirements for account to be taken of certain public interests. It shall also be possible to derogate from the requirements of the Planning and Construction Act on plots, public spaces and areas for non-building sites, as well as certain provisions on the implementation of construction, demolition and land measures. Proportionality shall apply to the exemption provisions in relation to the interests which the exempted provisions intend to protect and promote. The provisions of this Regulation shall apply only for a limited period of time. Mr President, I would like to With regard to the motion under discussion in the report, we Social Democrats support the committee's position: that any need to set up temporary health facilities, such as field hospitals and reception tents for sampling, in connection with municipal care activities should be covered by the new regulation. In the case of temporary buildings which may be needed in municipal care and which do not relate to health care, there is no preparation basis for extending the authorisation to include them. However, the Government does not rule out the need for further action in the future to address the views expressed by some consultation bodies on this issue. We therefore assume that the government will follow the matter and take the necessary initiatives in this area. There is therefore no need for any announcement to the government. The exercise should therefore be rejected. Mr President, I would like to Once again, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the CU27.
i-f6adaba589471443-17	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs (NU14) on energy policy. The report deals with some ninety requests from the general period of exercise, and there are 25 reservations. First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal in all parts of the report, except for the section on small-scale hydroelectric power. There, S, MP and V have a joint reservation, No 11, to which I request approval. I demand that the other motions be rejected. Mr President, I would like to 150 years ago Sweden started electrifying. Kerosene lamps were replaced with light bulbs. Wood stoves were replaced with electric stoves. In fact, Sweden was one of the first countries in the world where virtually all households were electrified. My own grandfather was part of this. As a hydropower builder, he helped electrify small villages in Jämtland. That's also how he met my grandmother, so you could say that electrification also contributed to me standing here now. Now we are on the threshold of the next generation electrification. We'll reset the transport system. We're already on our way. Faster than we think, the passenger car fleet will be powered by electricity, and we will see the same developments in those parts of the industry that have not yet been electrified. In steel production in Sweden, which today is one of our by far the largest sources of carbon dioxide emissions, the Hybrid initiative is a shining example. It is about making fossil-free steel with a hydrogen-based production, which can reduce Sweden's carbon dioxide emissions by as much as 10 percent. SSAB will offer the first fossil-free steel to the market already in 2026. We also see that the cement industry has developed a vision to manage cement production without carbon dioxide emissions by 2030, which corresponds to 5 per cent of Sweden's total carbon dioxide emissions. This will bring significant competitive advantages while reducing emissions. We Social Democrats are a climate and welfare party, and we are very pleased with this development with a climate shift that contributes to new jobs and new tax revenues that can secure our welfare and prosperity. To do this, we need a stable energy policy that breathes confidence and confidence in the future. Energy policy aims to create the conditions for a long-term secure and sustainable energy supply at competitive prices, which can provide new jobs, new businesses and increased exports. Mr President, I would like to Much of energy policy is about the production and distribution of electricity. The question then is whether we have enough electricity. The short answer is yes, but it is of course more complicated than that. Last year, 163 terawatt hours of electricity were produced. This is almost as much as the Swedish grid has in its long-term forecast for electricity demand in 2040. Sweden net exported 26 terawatt hours of electricity in 2019, which is the record of all time. We have no power shortage in Sweden. We have a large electricity surplus, and the electricity we import at the peaks is mostly Norwegian hydropower. We are now connecting our electricity system with other countries to make the most efficient use of electricity possible. One of the reasons for the positive development is that new wind turbines like Tussilago are popping up in the spring. This involves investments of as much as SEK 90 billion in new wind power until 2021. Another reason is the powerful PV support that has led to a PV revolution going on in the country. The costs of renewable electricity from wind and sun are reduced each year. Mr President, I would like to What do we need to do? First of all, we should stick to the objectives on which we agree. Sweden will be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. Electricity production shall be 100 per cent renewable by 2040, and Sweden shall have no net emissions by 2045. We need to be reminded that the targets are not a deadline that prohibits nuclear power. Nor do they mean the closure of nuclear power with political decisions. We need a competitive power and district heating sector to meet the regional capacity challenges for electricity and heat supply, and we need a good opportunity to use forest and agricultural raw materials for biofuel production. We also need to make use of sustainable energy gases, which will eventually play an increasingly important role in the energy mix. The Biogas investigation is now being consulted, and it will be very interesting to see what the referral bodies are responding to. Hydropower accounts for almost half of Swedish electricity generation and is, for that reason alone, a very important part of the Swedish power system. However, we need modern environmental requirements for hydropower, where the assessment system is not unduly administratively and economically burdensome for the individual in relation to the environmental benefit. A national plan for the implementation of environmental requirements for hydro power is prepared within the Government Office. Therefore, we do not believe that there is any reason for Parliament to approve the proposals contained in motions on the conditions of small-scale hydropower. The overall objectives set by the Riksdag mean that energy policy should aim to reconcile ecological sustainability, competitiveness and security of supply, and that Swedish energy policy is based on the same three pillars as energy cooperation in the EU. The objectives set by the Riksdag provide long-term conditions for energy policy to create conditions for efficient and sustainable energy use and a cost-effective Swedish energy supply with a low negative impact on health, the environment and climate that will facilitate the transition to an ecologically sustainable society. We also need to increase the transmission capacity of the grid from north to south. It must be easier to build electricity networks in Sweden. The connection cost of offshore wind energy shall be abolished. We need to produce more electricity closer to consumers, and it should be easier and more profitable to invest in renewable energy for our own use, such as solar cells and solar heat. I am pleased that the government has also pointed out the importance of breaking fossil dependence in the transport sector. Increased electrification will be an important component of the transition to net zero emissions both in the transport sector and in industry, and the Government intends to develop a national electrification strategy accordingly. We also need to focus on research and development in energy production, and we look forward to the Government's energy research proposal planned for later this year. Mr President, I would like to When Sweden was electrified 150 years ago, society was characterized by faith in the future. Let's do it again. We have the best conditions in the world to make it. We have great access to renewable energy. We have an energy industry at the forefront. However, we will have to help each other, because I am convinced that if a small country is to face major challenges, we need to work together.
i-f6adaba589471443-41	Mr President, I would like to We shall now debate the Committee on Economic Affairs' motion for a resolution on energy policy. I would like to begin by calling for the reservation in paragraph 2 to be accepted. Energy policy orientation is the basis for a good energy policy. Without clear objectives, it is difficult for such a resource-intensive sector to plan for its operations – a sector that also has long lead times from plan to investment that is so crucial to our social development. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has historically been a country that has been good at producing the energy needed when it is needed, also at a reasonable cost. Looking back, we can see that it has brought great sacrifices to many to make this possible. The fact that there is a clear direction forward for our energy policy is also important for any new investment in the country. Many of the emerging new industries have a great need for computer capabilities that require a lot of energy. Here, Sweden has been an attractive country to invest and invest in, and we must continue to be so. Only then can we secure jobs and our welfare. Now we no longer have a broad consensus on what the energy policy direction should be, something we moderately regret. An energy policy orientation needs to be broadly based and also to be sustained over time. It also needs to be anchored in time in terms of how best to access the energy we need when we need it and how energy is produced with the least possible climate impact. That is why we Moderates believe that we need a new, broad parliamentary energy commission. Both we and the OECD experts are convinced that we cannot achieve our climate goals without much nuclear energy in our energy system. To meet the climate challenge, we need to reformulate our previous targets into targets of 100% fossil-free energy instead of 100% renewable energy. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, not all parliamentary parties are equally convinced. Our goal is 100 percent fossil-free energy; we cannot set another goal with a clear conscience. Only then can we switch society to increased electrification and thus cope with a competitive welfare society that is not dependent on fossil energy. Our competitiveness and energy policy are linked to our welfare society. For such an export-dependent country as Sweden, with a large part of its industry in very energy-intensive sectors, energy policy is absolutely crucial. Only through a good energy and industrial policy can we offer our citizens a welfare we can feel safe with. In times of unrest such as these, we also see that good economics is the basis for us to be able to offer the country's population the necessary care. It's all connected. We Moderates are very pleased today that we have received a majority for an announcement to the government in response to the motion for a resolution on small-scale hydropower. A united committee sees the value of small-scale hydropower and what needs to be done to best protect it. Reforms are needed here with a good regulatory framework, a regulatory framework that protects property rights and where environmental measures have reasonable costs. It is an important announcement for our small hydropower but also for our energy and water availability preparedness capabilities. It is also an important question of principle as regards the ownership of small hydroelectric power stations, which often have a centuries-old history. Mr President, I would like to Cogeneration, district heating and residual heat are areas that have been treated rigidly in Swedish energy policy. It is resources that are available but that are still not being used to the full. It is not reasonable for us to invest a great deal of resources in producing thermal energy when there are already those that are not used. It is heat from the cooling of nuclear power plants and the burning of garbage, but also heat that is wasted when cooling, for example, computer halls. It is clear that we need to use the energy that already exists. Mr President, I would like to We have lots of forms of energy that we do not actually use fully. One of these is biogas, a gas that is also often a pure by-product of our waste management and our agriculture. It would, we believe, be of great value if we could use this residual product in a strategically better way. Competition is now distorted. It is not reasonable for Swedish gas to be competed out by, for example, Danish gas. Denmark has a different state control system despite the fact that both countries are members of the EU. We all too often blame the European Union for not allowing our own production. There is a need for harmonisation here. Mr President, I would like to Knowledge is the basis for all development. That's why research is so important to us. We need to do more research in the field of energy and remove the taboos with which nuclear research has been subject. Nuclear power is the form of energy that is properly used can provide energy when we need it and in sufficient quantity. But we also need research in other areas.
i-f6adaba589471443-55	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 4 in the report. As a result of the pandemic that has spread rapidly, Sweden and the world are in the midst of an unprecedented crisis in modern times. Energy policy, which we are debating here, is in such a situation a prerequisite for the functioning of socially important functions and for us to have an energy supply that works even in these times. Most people probably take it for granted that electricity and energy should always be available when needed in the same way that we expect there to always be water in the tap when we are going to flush, at home or elsewhere. Curiously, no one has the long-term responsibility for energy supply and security of supply in Sweden. Rather, it is everyone's responsibility. There is still no target for security of supply. This may not surprise you, as Sweden's overall preparedness has not impressed in any way. On the other hand, this is one of the issues where the Riksdag has addressed an announcement to the Government that Sweden will introduce such a goal, which happened just over a year ago. Nevertheless, nothing has yet happened on this issue, which is regrettable. Another area where development is regrettable is small hydropower. During the last parliamentary term, a notice was sent to the government on the conditions for small hydroelectric power. The situation at the time was extremely acute, as a result of the extensive re- and re-tests that were then being carried out. This led to the development of new legislation in this area. It seemed to be able to solve most of the problems and could be adopted by a large majority in the Riksdag. The report also contained the clear starting point from the Riksdag that small-scale hydropower is important. Unfortunately, it has been clear that there are still problems with what has developed into what can be likened to official activism on the part of the authorities concerned, which does not place any emphasis on the broad political force behind where we are going in this work. It seeks to escape the strong political will and agreement on the reformed legislation voted through here. It is therefore gratifying that a majority in the committee consisting of the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals now again clearly declare that small-scale hydropower is important for the Swedish energy system. This is clearly something that needs to be highlighted. We are also sending a new announcement to the government that the direction of further work on water legislation and water management should be pursued in order to safeguard small-scale hydropower. Mr President, I would like to This report makes it even clearer that there are two blocks in energy policy. This mainly concerns the view on whether to include or exclude nuclear energy in the long-term work to achieve fossil freedom. If there is to be broad agreement on energy policy and its objective, it is clear that a new Parliamentary Energy Commission is needed to achieve it. Apparently it was not wide enough on the previous occasion. The report contains a proposal from the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals that a new Energy Commission should be set up. However, this is something that a majority in the committee opposes. It points out that it considers that energy policy conditions have not changed in such a way over the last two years that the establishment of a new parliamentary Energy Commission is currently justified. It is clear that what happened at the beginning of the term of office has been missed. At that time, the existing agreement was supported by 239 Members of this House, which constituted a majority. But since then, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats have made the deal. It now has the support of only 147 Members, which is a minority. As a result, there is no broad majority in any direction on a number of issues, which in turn has led to a number of announcements to the government. Before the pandemic, there was also a sharp line in Parliament, where only one mandate separates the various energy policy blocs. This means that the two savages present in the Riksdag, who previously belonged to the Left Party and the Liberals, have the opportunity to decide directly or indirectly major and important issues for our energy supply. It is a system that is completely unreasonable. Initiatives should be taken urgently to seek a broad agreement. Unfortunately, there is no support for such a system, as the government parties alongside the Left Party and the Center Party are obviously satisfied with the current order. We would like to see strong action taken to tackle this.
i-f6adaba589471443-70	Mr President, I would like to We are at a breaking point in Swedish energy history. Electricity prices are record lows. The production of electricity has expanded a great deal in recent years. It has probably not been built anywhere in the world in recent decades as much electricity production per capita as it has been done mainly with Swedish wind power between 2007 and 2017, and even in recent years the development is not included. Wind power has become a large-scale production team and has already passed nuclear power on several occasions in terms of production. Within a few years, this is also expected on an annual basis. This is a welcome development, not especially because it is about wind power, but because it can be done on market terms. We are at a breaking point even technically. New technologies create new opportunities that did not exist just a few years ago. User flexibility, energy storage in other than hydro power storage, fast frequency regulation and other things show up and reboot the market and system. Technology development is phenomenal. It has never been as cheap to build solar electricity or wind power as it is today. In fact, new solar electricity is competing in many parts of the world out of existing coal power. It is fantastic when we can remove fossil fuels and replace it with climate-smart production on market terms, just like when we build wind power in Sweden. If electricity and energy with a marginal cost that goes to zero can be something that we do not have to do in the future, we are moving towards completely new, revolutionary opportunities and conditions that we can handle differently than we need to do today because of climate change. The record low electricity prices I mentioned at the beginning are due to an interaction between the wet year that has been, a mild winter, good winds and covid-19. Electricity is now traded for just a few cents per kilowatt hour, and the price would actually have been even lower, not least in southern Sweden, if Swedish power grid got the delayed power cable Southwest link started. It is a monumental failure of the Swedish power grid that the construction has not started, which affects southern Sweden heavily. Now, however, there are also opportunities and opportunities to use them. The opportunities that appear, we'll take care of them. Winston Churchill said: Never waste a good crisis. We can build a system that is better, more efficient and cheaper than the system we have today, where consumers who want to be involved in producing can be, where local batteries can be used so that the need for expensive grid expansion decreases and where the focus becomes on a whole instead of individual, many times large, power plants or power types that are gladly used as bats in the debate in the absence of other ideas. We need to remember that this is not a planned economy. Parliament should not decide on individual power plants. It does the market and the companies themselves. The support systems we have are to be phased out. The system of certificates of electricity has played its part and should be abolished as a matter of urgency. The investment grant for solar cells should be phased out and eventually perhaps replaced by a ROT deduction or similar to make it easier for consumers. We should also, of course, make better use of the systems and opportunities we have, and we need to take account of the fact that this is a reality in which people live. The engineering and planning dream, where many say we need this and this, doesn't work in reality. We need a system where people are not required to be flexible to start the dishwasher in the middle of the night – of course these things need to be handled automatically. There are now heat pumps that are controlled remotely, which facilitate systems and reduce the pressure on the electricity grid and at the same time give money in the wallet for the individual household and the network company. It is user flexibility in reality. We see in the scenarios that the Swedish Energy Agency has developed that if we allow the market to control and do not collect subsidies and force individual power teams to continue producing, we will meet the challenges we face. We need to let prices vary so that it can be really cheap sometimes and a little more expensive sometimes. It's no stranger than that it is – or at least was – more expensive to go on a charter holiday than a few weeks later. It simply needs to make a difference on prices. Then the tax also needs to be more flexible, because it destroys much of the price formation today. As Vattenfall is now in crisis and sending threatening letters about its problems to its suppliers and taking them hostage in order to lower their prices, I am a little perplexed and wonder in my calm mind what it would have been like if, at the same time from this House, as some parties wish, we had forced Vattenfall to keep alive old power plants that are not profitable. How much did they have to force their suppliers to lower prices? Instead, let us focus on the real challenges and the problems that exist, but also on what the solutions are. The fact that we in this House are to point out which power plants are to be built or not to be built is not a solution. For example, it is a matter of local power shortages, that is to say, we have problems getting the power into the cities. It has been most obvious in Malmö and Stockholm. Gotland has had this problem for a long time, and it is also found in Uppsala, Västerås and other cities. The problem is bottlenecks, not production. We can produce as much as we want, but the power will not reach the final consumer – unless nuclear power is built on Gärdet in Stockholm. We are not solving this with either nuclear power in Ringhals or large wind farms. Instead, the solutions are to shorten the long state processes – not very sexy, but important – as well as flexibility, local electricity generation and to give cogeneration the best conditions for producing with renewable power, not the coal power used in the past. Here's the Center Party proposal. We are talking about fast state processes and green tracks, so that those who make an environmentally sound investment can also get lighter demands. We are talking about clearer requirements in terms of balance responsibility and about ensuring that you have to deliver what you say you should deliver. We are talking about a flexible electricity tax that allows the market to break through and make use of flexibility. We also see developments where in the longer term we can face certain challenges in terms of power or system services. Here, just as the Swedish democrats actually raised, one needs to point out a responsibility. Swedish power networks should be given the long-term responsibility for Swedish energy supply, in order to be able to plan and show where problems arise. What sets us apart from some other parties, however, is that we do not think that the whole market model should be changed. We do not think it should be paid for different system services per se. If we have a shortage of this kind, we are purchasing to remedy it instead of starting to pay for things that we do not want to pay for. It will not benefit either Swedish consumers, Swedish competitiveness or Swedish industry. We see that it is important to make use of the power reserve we have and perhaps make sure to procure further if necessary. Today, this is not a problem after the mild winter we have had. But we must also not start to randomize the important resources we have in our energy system. Hydropower is often taken for granted. We talk far too little hydropower in the Swedish parliament – not least when we now have authorities who do not seem to want to fulfil the political will and all the exceptions in the regulations are not used, despite what is stated in the bill that the Riksdag has clubbed. It is therefore to be welcomed that the Center Party's motion is endorsed in this House by a number of the parties in the Committee on Economic Affairs. We need to steer authorities so that they more clearly protect hydropower. It is incredibly important, especially the small-scale, not least from a local impact perspective where you can also contribute with system benefits. These power plants were built once, as Helene mentioned earlier, when the community began electrifying. It began to be built for what is today called island drift, which can enable us to cope with crises in a completely different way than we do today. And crises can come faster than we can imagine – that if anything we know right now. To then watch, as the government sedentary, when the authorities are running execution agendas is indefensible. It is therefore to be welcomed that the Parliament agrees with the call of the Center Party. Finally – we have a fantastic development in Sweden, Mr President. Perhaps for the first time ever – it can be stressed – we are now building power on market conditions. It has not been done before. Hydro power received government loans and nuclear power was heavily subsidised, and wind and bio power were previously supported. That won't be necessary anymore. It is a revolution that we have finally come to a point where things can be expanded anyway, and it is worth affirming. Then it is worth allowing markets to control and possibly impose requirements on what is to be delivered and how it is to be delivered, but not on individual power sources. We should not be inventing new subsidies and should not start trying to redraw the playing field economically from this House. If we do that, it will cost Swedish industry, Swedish competitiveness and Swedish households far too much. That is why the Center Party is only calling for reservation 5 and for the others to be rejected.
i-f6adaba589471443-92	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report on energy policy. The Left Party does not support the energy agreement which forms the basis of the current energy policy. The agreement has begun to break down since two parties have recently left it, but much of the government's work is still guided by it. Instead of a fragile energy agreement, in which the defected parties want to back up in the future with support for an energy source that is actually more expensive than the renewable ones, we want the goal of energy policy to be a society with 100% renewable energy supply by 2040. By investing in energy efficiency and renewable energy, such as solar, wind, bio and geoenergy, an ecologically sustainable society can emerge. It is true that it costs to invest in developing and building renewable electricity production. However, the absence of investment in renewable energy will result in a shortage of electricity and rising electricity prices in the future. By investing in renewable electricity, the costs of climate change can be kept down. We need to take that responsibility. We need to take responsibility for the historical emissions and the environmental impact we have caused this world. We need to take responsibility for what we use as energy sources and what we hand over to future generations. The great thing about taking responsibility is that Sweden can become a country that inspires and pushes on. That's why I'm saying no to nuclear power. It's not just an insecure energy source. It is also expensive and makes the transition to renewable energy production difficult. There is also no safe method of disposal of radioactive waste. That is why we want to see nuclear decommissioning. Through significant efforts to develop steel production where hydrogen replaces coal, the so-called H ybri t project, Sweden wants to profile itself in the climate context. We in the Left Party are in favour of this. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that HYBRI's business concept is based on the fact that electricity prices will vary and that hydrogen will be produced and stored when electricity prices are low. Such price variation can be expected when there is a lot of weather-dependent renewable electricity in the power system and not in the same way when the continuously produced nuclear power accounts for a large part of the electricity mix. This, too, is in favour of the decommissioning of nuclear power. As regards the announcement on small-scale hydropower, as the committee points out, we have a joint reservation, reservation No 11, with the Social Democrats and the Green Party. We are, of course, behind the reservation. Although representatives of the Left Party have not put forward any energy policy proposals in this report, the Left Party will work in the future to ensure that energy policy takes the direction that I have now described.
i-f6adaba589471443-101	Mr President, I would like to The Corona crisis is hitting the economy hard. When companies and industry go down, it is also part of the explanation for the sharp decline in current electricity prices; high water flows and a mild winter are others. We will strive for a robust system that delivers when we need and at competitive prices. However, the price situation we are now seeing, with several days around zero, brings with it a certain problem and a strained situation for producers. This is an example that underlines the need to review the functioning of the electricity market. In the current situation, the preparedness perspective has also become the focus. Stable access to fossil-free and secure electricity is always essential. But then we must safeguard and develop our safe base power while combining it with renewables. The current circumstances are that industry and companies cannot produce fully, that there is no growth in the companies and that some are in danger of being completely knocked out. Then it is extremely important that the day everyday begins to recover that production is not stopped because there is not enough electricity at the right time and at the given place. It is about continuing to invest in network capacity, that production in the north can be delivered into the country and that this issue is not the cause of a halt in industrial production. This can be put at risk when base power is taken out of operation in southern Sweden. Normal winters signal that the balance deficit is growing. This is because the planned power disappears without being replaced. We will then find ourselves in an increased dependence on imported electricity which is at risk of being dirtier than ours. We also know that the competitiveness of industry and climate demand more fossil-free electricity. When the fleet and industries are to switch by electrification, the electricity must be there. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise calculates the increase to 60 percent by 2045, and the Energy Companies and IVA point in the same direction. This requires the reliability and efficiency of nuclear power. Mr President, I would like to We are opposed to the planned closure of Ringhals 1 – nothing surprises you; we have said that for a long time – because it weakens our capacity to achieve the goals and our position as an industrial nation. The business institute's analysis cannot be mistaken. Carbon dioxide emissions are expected to increase by 8 million tonnes. We want to ensure the conditions for life-long extensions of nuclear power. This is an effective way of meeting the targets, as stated in a report from the Energy Companies. Research must also capture our energy opportunities in a broad way. Unfortunately, nuclear research has been disadvantaged in state-funded energy research. The Parliament has decided on an announcement of a broader approach, and we will closely follow that this is respected by the government. The conditions under which research is given send signals that are relevant for staff supply and training. Sweden should also advance its positions on new nuclear power, partly by developing a roadmap for fourth generation nuclear power, and partly through collaboration with other countries on standardisation processes. Mr President, I would like to The power heat has many advantages. The contemporary production of heat and electricity makes the power stroke effective. In addition to being planable, it is local and reduces our vulnerability. Although almost a tenth of our electricity production comes from cogeneration, the potential of cogeneration has been far too low. Instead, tax increases have been implemented with very short preparation time for producers. The perspective must be reversed. In order to strengthen power and district heating, we need a coherent strategy, as the industry is asking and as we Christian Democrats are proposing in the report. I request the approval of reservation 22. Mr President, I would like to The report also contains an announcement, including from us Christian Democrats, that the government should protect small-scale hydropower through reduced regulatory constraints, respect for property rights and effective and affordable environmental measures. Many owners of small-scale hydropower live today with concerns about environmental testing processes that can lead to widespread fatigue if the processes are designed incorrectly. Owners testify that the legislative changes so far have not had the intended effect on government management. Future trials in the so-called national plan risk taking out many works if the trials are not designed with clear respect for property rights, for the historical value of the works and for the benefits of hydropower. Small-scale hydropower contributes to a more secure electricity supply, not least in southern Sweden, and it is a contribution that must be allowed to continue.
i-f6adaba589471443-114	Mr President, I would like to One of our greatest responsibilities in this House is energy supply that works everywhere, all the time. There is nothing else in society that is just as fundamental. But we have often taken this responsibility lightly. We've made laws that point here and there. In particular, we have turned the electrical system into an ideological playhouse where energetic ideas have been welcome, regardless of their consequences. Some of us have tried to resist, but many of my colleagues in this House do not seem to have understood that our decisions have consequences. I do not think it is even possible to review the consequences of all parliamentary decisions over the years. The electricity supply is still working, but it is certainly not due to me or to the Members of this House. I do not always fully agree with the Social Democrats, but I would like to highlight what Mr Knutsson said about our predecessors. It is thanks to them that we stand where we are today. It is their forward-looking decision to expand water and nuclear power and to build a strong electricity grid that makes it still work. But we are fast approaching a situation where the political experiments are starting to have an effect. We have lost three fully functioning reactors in a short time, and a fourth seems to be closing by the end of the year. Even hydropower has a tough time. I don't think anyone thought it was the one that was going to be knocked out by the growing wind power, but here we are. It is said that we are building wind power for the sake of the climate, but what is happening is that it is forcing nuclear power and soon also hydropower to shut down. The growth of wind power is a consequence of Parliament's decision. It was said that it would stand on its own feet, but when the subsidy, i.e. the certificates of electricity, began to abolish itself, it became a terrible life. We were told by the wind power industry that they need even more subsidies, this time to maintain confidence in Swedish energy policy. Bad decisions end with the invoice being sent to you and me. For some reason, it is considered that Swedish electricity customers will subsidise large foreign actors who want to build wind power in Sweden. The effects of wind power expansion are clearly visible. When the wind blows, we produce more electricity than we can dispose of or manage to export. Both hydropower and nuclear power have major problems due to unhealthy competition. It is high time we took a step back and started cleaning up. Hopefully we have a few years. The Parliament will set the objectives for electricity and energy supply – that is our responsibility. The details will be left to those who understand them. Liberals believe that there are three perspectives that we should take into account: Mr President, I would like to We must take responsibility for the functioning of the energy supply. We will create the conditions that enable the companies in the energy industry to choose to operate their plants further. It is a huge failure for us to lose fossil-free power plants while, at the same time, pouring billions into subsidies to build new wind power. We need – unfortunately – to get to grips with the electricity supply. We all see now that the work of the Energy Commission a few years ago was a big blow to the air. Despite all the discussions then, parts of the country have power shortages, and we have electricity generation in free fall. Now that we are dealing with this again, we have to start from the objectives. We must ensure that the supply of electricity always works. We will ensure that we do not become dependent on dirty electricity from our southern neighbours, and we will once again make the supply of electricity a competitive advantage for Swedish industry. New business should want to establish itself here with us, where we have a secure supply of cheap, clean energy. At the same time, we must create the conditions for electrifying both the transport sector and the growing industry. It goes without saying that fossil-free energy must have comparable conditions. We don't have to discuss that. We can never again afford to engage in discussions about the favorite power of different parties. We have done this for far too long, while at the same time turning a blind eye to the problems that have piled up. Our job is to secure energy supply and Swedish competitiveness. It is time we took on that task. Mr President, I would like to Of course, we support all our reservations, but in order to save time, I only ask for reservation 1.
i-f6adaba589471443-130	Mr President, I would like to Arman Teimouri, together with the Center Party's Helena Lindahl, has in a commendable way criticised Vattenfall for taking its subcontractors hostage in the current crisis, now that the company has a severe economic crisis. There I share Arman's vision fully. Vattenfall has acted irresponsibly. In his speech, Arman pointed out that it is important to see the consequences of parliamentary decisions. Then my question to Arman will be: How do he and the Liberals think that Vattenfall's financial situation would have looked like if the company had had to continue to keep Ringhals 1 and 2 open through political decisions, which the Liberals are running? There are two power plants that the company itself says are completely economically impossible to operate.
i-f6adaba589471443-132	We usually address each other with both first and last names in this Chamber.
i-f6adaba589471443-133	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Rickard Nordin! As far as Vattenfall is concerned, there are many different perspectives on the matter. We have taken note of various reports that contradict what the honourable Member has raised. I believe that what is important is that we ensure that the full-function forces that exist are maintained. We will not dismantle fossil-free power that we have here in Sweden. We need it for our competitiveness and to strengthen ourselves internationally. We shall also ensure that we are part of and displace the fossil production that exists in the northern parts of Europe. We do this by having strong nuclear and hydropower and by expanding wind power. Nothing contradicts each other. Why should we dismantle fully functioning power plants? I would like to ask the honourable Member that question.
i-f6adaba589471443-137	Mr President, I would like to The power plants that are now being dismantled are being dismantled on market terms, Arman Teimouri, because they are not profitable. Does the honourable Member think that we should continue to support, for example, the Swedish shipbuilding industry and Saab? After all, they were fully operational but simply not profitable in terms of the market, and thus they were closed down. Supporting them is nothing but planned economy. Torbjörn Wahlborg, Production Manager at Vattenfall, has said this: But the conditions simply do not exist. ..................................................... Then I wonder: What information does Arman Teimouri currently have that this attitude is being overtested? This was said a year ago, when electricity prices were higher, when the expansion of other power was less advanced and when we were not entering a recession. Electricity prices are record lows. There is no power force that is profitable today. To force Vattenfall then to keep two power plants, which were already considered unprofitable a year ago, open is economic madness. Then I wonder: what information does Arman Teimouri have that makes him think that Vattenfall would be financially better off in the current situation by politically keeping these power plants open? He himself has said that it is grossly irresponsible to pressure their subcontractors.
i-f6adaba589471443-142	Mr President, I would like to I thank Rickard Nordin for this. I would like to say that it is economic madness to close down reactors that are fully operational. We know that there have been various reports showing the opposite. Mr Nordin also knows that. I think it is perfectly reasonable for us to be able to demand that an external and independent investigation be carried out which looks at the possibilities of continuing the two power plants. Now it is really only one of the works that is possible, as we also highlight in this report. I think that's perfectly reasonable. We will not stand here and talk about different power plants, but we will make sure to protect the fossil-free power plants that exist here in Sweden. Nuclear and hydropower together with wind power is what makes us highly competitive here in Sweden. That is what we must protect for the sake of the climate and for the sake of Swedish competitiveness.
i-f6adaba589471443-144	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 11 and the other proposal in the report. Mr President, I would like to It is wonderful to debate energy issues. There are few areas where there is so much happening as in the energy sector and where such an exciting development is taking place. One could say that the whole market is being re-run right now. You can look at the trend globally and in Sweden. Fossil energy and nuclear energy are replaced by renewable energy. Here in Europe it is driven by, among other things, the major reform of the EU ETS that we in the Green Party pushed through. As an example, one can look at the German energy market where emissions from electricity have been reduced by 30%. Coal and nuclear power production is being shut down and replaced by renewable electricity production. I will mention an exciting example of one of the areas of development where perhaps the most is happening right now, namely the sea wind. Just a few weeks ago, the first drift was taken to the world's largest sea park, Dogger Bank Wind Farm in the North Sea. This is very inspiring. This park will use the most powerful turbines available. So they're 500 feet above sea level. It's very loud. Overall, this whole park will produce electricity that meets the needs of four and a half million households. So it's a park that produces so much electricity. It's very large quantities. We have the same development on the land side, not least here in Sweden. We have had a huge expansion of wind power, where we are now actually also building one of the world's largest wind farms – the countryside outside Piteå. Similar things we see on the sun side. The sun is a train that slowly picks up speed. From low levels, solar energy has now increased very strongly in Sweden as well. We have gone from being one of the countries that has been the worst in solar energy in Europe. Then there have been a number of political changes – regulatory simplifications and a twenty-fold increase in PV support. This has been contributed by this government. Now we have seen an increase of 400% in the last three years alone. If you look at the potential a little bit, it's huge. The potential only for sea wind in Sweden is 300 terawatt hours up. That is the purely technical potential. Of course, all of this will not be realized. But this says something about how great the potential is at large. On land, at least 100 terawatt hours of wind power can be built technically. On the sun side we have 40 terawatt hours on roof and 50 terawatt hours on other surfaces. These are huge energy sources that we are using and will be even better at using in the future. On the other hand, we see coal production being shut down and nuclear power malfunctioning. Sandbag is one of the think tanks in Europe that knows these issues absolutely best. They describe what we are seeing in Europe right now as the collapse of coal. In almost every country in Europe, coal production is falling drastically, partly because of the reform that the Green parties pushed through in Europe and because of all the new energy brought in by wind and sun. Let me give you a concrete example of nuclear power. Just a few days ago, further information was received that the Olkiluoto 3 reactor in Finland is even more delayed. This reactor has now been delayed for more than 12 years. Every time it is to be opened, it will be announced that the time will be extended. It was said that it would be put into commercial operation next year. But now it is likely to be even later. During this time the reactor has become more expensive time and time again. Now it's one of the most expensive buildings in the world. In fact, it competes with the NKS to be one of the world's most expensive buildings, and NKS knows some of the parties in this House well. It can be said that nuclear power in the Western world is experiencing the three f-orders – delays, costs and fiasco. That is the reality of nuclear power in the Western world and elsewhere in the world. Mr President, I would like to We will, of course, welcome all new renewable energy. But we also need to focus now on the correct rigging of the system. We have a system based on a traditional view of what energy production looks like with certain types of energy flows and production. We know that production will be more variable in the future, regardless of what any of us in this House thinks about that. That is why we need to rig this system right in the future in order to exploit all the positive energy that comes from renewables. Then it is in three areas that we need reforms. The first area is flexibility in general. We need a more flexible market. This means that households and industries must use energy in a smarter way. It must be economic instruments that guide more flexible use. We need to get markets up and running for the local effect. There are some people who think we have a shortage of electricity nationally. These people reveal their ignorance. At most, there are at times local shortages, and this is due to transmission capacity and the like. Here we need to get better at everything related to storage – batteries and getting the production of hydrogen started to receive the production left over when it is produced, among other things, wind power. The second area is energy efficiency improvements. It is a potential that is very large and that is currently not realised to the extent that it should be realised. When we save electricity, the peaks also become easier to handle. Therefore, it is part of rigging this new electrical system. The third and final area is, of course, transmission capacity. We need a stronger transfer in the north-south direction. But we also need general rehabilitation and greater robustness throughout the network. With these three areas as a basis for future reforms, as well as more renewable electricity generation, there is no doubt that we will put a cut-edge road forward to 100% renewable electricity generation in this country.
i-f6adaba589471443-161	Mr President, I would like to I think Lorentz Tovatt had a good conclusion: it is a question of rigging the system correctly. Then we must also make use of the resources we actually have in the system today and not just build new ones. Mr Lorentz talked about flexibility. Yes, Swedish hydropower can be run flexibly and thus help to manage variations in other production. He talked about the local effect. Yes, small hydropower in particular exists locally and can also expand its production if the conditions are right. Lorentz Tovatt also talked about transmission capacity, and with more local production we need less investment in networks. In Sweden we have far fewer watercourses that are classified as highly modified compared to other countries that live under exactly the same regulations as we do in Sweden. In other countries it is even possible to build new small-scale hydropower, but in Sweden the existing one is opposed. My question to Lorentz Tovatt is: does Lorentz Tovatt and the Green Party think that the authorities are living up to the new legislation that we in this House adopted and which means using all the available exceptions in EU law to safeguard small-scale hydropower?
i-f6adaba589471443-164	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Rickard Nordin! What should be said is that work is under way and that the authorities are working on the issue. The national plan is being worked out as we speak here. It is simply the case that we should have new modern environmental requirements and a national plan in place. That is something that Rickard Nordin's party has reached an agreement with the government on, and I remember that Rickard Nordin has repeatedly been rather harsh in tone when other parties have chosen to bring up agreements that exist for debate in Parliament. However, it does not seem to apply to him himself. So I am not quite sure; I find it difficult to fully grasp the reservation. I think it is a strange procedure, given that work is currently under way and that in other contexts Rickard Nordin does not usually like the type of procedure he is currently working on.
i-f6adaba589471443-166	Mr President, I would like to I would like to make it clear to Mr Lorentz that the announcement that exists, where the Green Party has a reservation, is forward-looking. It does not refer to the national plan that is now being developed, and it does not refer to the agreement. This forward-looking approach is very clear in the announcement. The truth is, however, that the authorities are not working on this at all, Lorentz Tovatt. The government is working on the national plan and, of course, the Center Party will also be there because we are behind the energy agreement. But that was not my question. The legislation has been in place since 1 January, and it clearly states that all applicable exceptions under EU law should be used. My question remains: does Lorentz Tovatt and the Green Party think that the authorities apply the law correctly? Do you think that all exceptions are used? Do we think we have enough heavily modified water? This has nothing to do with the announcement or the national plan, because these are separate issues. My question is whether the Green Party believes that the current legislation is being properly applied by the authorities. That's the question, nothing else.
i-f6adaba589471443-169	Mr President, I would like to It will be a little semantics – my point, of course, is that water issues are generally included in the energy agreement and that this has to do with each other. I find it strange that parts of it are broken out, and also quite specific parts concerning the handling of matters by individual authorities, and then a major parliamentary question is made of it. I think it is a bit strange to deal with this in the way that there is an energy agreement that has been concluded and which is supported. I have no specific views on the handling of these issues by individual authorities, but we are dealing with it widely in the Energy Agreement. Rickard Nordin and the Center Party are also part of that agreement, and there we are dealing with and discussing these issues.
i-f6adaba589471443-171	Mr President, I would like to Today I am extremely happy and grateful. During the two years I have had the privilege of sitting in Parliament again, I have travelled and met many owners of small-scale hydropower. I have had the privilege of listening to their stories about how they feel that the legislation works and how they feel that authorities and courts handle their cases. It has not always been a beautiful and positive story, but rather it has been marked by great frustration. However, it makes me extremely happy to be in this Chamber today and to see that an announcement is being made which so clearly shows that Parliament is in favour of small-scale hydropower and that the application procedure is to be made in a simple and reasonable manner. From a Christian Democrat point of view, we have also, together with others, initiated two seminars held in Parliament during the parliamentary term. They have been about small-scale hydropower, and these seminars have also highlighted the need for clarification. The fact that our motion, as well as the Center Party's motion, has led to this announcement today is a clear signal. This signals that we in Parliament want the small hydro power to be developed. That is a positive message. It is positive for rural areas, and it is positive for business. In fact, it is also positive for Swedish security policy as we get an energy system that can operate on a smaller scale even if the other system in different ways would be threatened. I am therefore pleased and grateful for the decision taken today and thank you for it.
i-f6adaba589471443-175	Mr President, I would like to This will not be an ordinary debate on trade policy as we are in the midst of the Corona crisis. But let us be clear: trade policy is important both in crisis and in normal conditions. We saw this not least at the beginning of the Corona crisis, when individual EU countries imposed export bans on medical equipment. We have all heard about the face protections that were ordered to Italy but got stuck in the Czech Republic. We have also heard about the face masks that got stuck in Germany but were going to Sweden. I am pleased that Sweden, through the Swedish Government and the Minister for Foreign Trade, has acted quickly. It has been clearly stated to the Commission and to other EU countries that all export restrictions must be removed. A functioning internal market in the EU, with a free flow of goods, is an important part of the fight against the Corona virus. However, trade policy is also important in a normal state. The truth is that it is a cornerstone of our entire economy as free trade creates growth, employment and prosperity in our country. Before the crisis, the export industry employed 1.4 million Swedes, and almost half our GDP comes from the export industry. Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the NU15 report, which contains 20 reservations and 50 motions. I demand that the motions and reservations be rejected. The exception is reservation 7, to which I request approval. From the side, it may seem that the parties in the Swedish Parliament are deeply divided about trade policy, but that is not true. Most parties in the Swedish Parliament see that it is an advantage for Sweden to remove trade barriers and increase trade. A majority here in the Swedish Parliament sees that there are advantages to the EU's conclusion of new trade agreements, deep and broad. I believe that everyone in this Parliament understands the value of reducing trade barriers between Norway and Sweden, and we agree in committee that the WTO needs to be reformed. I also believe that most people in this House agree that we need to implement the Paris Agreement in the new trade agreements signed by the European Union. Basically, we are quite united in trade policy. But, if anyone reads the report, a majority in the committee wants to make an announcement on seal products. After all, there must be disagreement there. The background to the issue, for those who do not know, is the ban on trade in seal products within the EU that was introduced in 2009. Until 2015, Sweden was able, by way of exception, to continue to sell seal products from protective hunting. As the Swedish exception disappeared, it was not because of political decisions but because the WTO Dispute Settlement Body considered it contrary to the common rules for international trade. Is there any disagreement on the matter? No, really not. Instead, we Social Democrats were actively working to ensure that the exemption for trade in seal products would come about, and once it was in place, we have worked to keep it there. Like the motionaries and the majority in committee, we believe that the ban on sales creates a number of problems. The fact that the catch may only be used in the hunter's own household – or discarded – is ethically, economically and environmentally unreasonable. At the same time, it is important that Sweden respects the WTO ruling, not least at a time when the WTO is being called into question from some quarters and when, for example, Donald Trump is doing what he can to undermine the WTO. I find it strange, Mr President, that so many in committee want to make an announcement on the trade in seal products despite the fact that we agree on the substance and that the government is actively working on the issue within the European Union. Mr President, I would like to I am proud of the Swedish government. I am proud that the Swedish Government stands up for trade, which is so important to Sweden. But I am equally proud that the government has shown that there is no contradiction between promoting trade and promoting fair conditions. The Swedish Government constantly points out that the ILO's main conventions must be signed when the EU concludes new trade agreements. For us Social Democrats, it is important to have fair conditions for employees, workers and officials, both here in Sweden and in the rest of the world. For this, trade policy is an important tool. When we talk about trade policy, I would like to raise another subject, namely Sweden's export strategy. In my world, it is a particularly wise policy for small and medium-sized enterprises to be helped to reach out to new markets around the world. The fact that companies throughout our elongated country are supported through regional export centres is more important than ever. We know from the past that this investment in the whole of Sweden has led to an increase in exports in all of Sweden's regions. Mr President, I would like to Around 70 per cent of Sweden's trade goes to other EU countries and Norway. This figure alone shows how important the EU's internal market is to our country. It is extraordinary that the government is working to promote the internal market, and it is at least as good that the government is pushing for the internal services market not to contain strange rules that benefit certain countries' own service companies. It is strange that Germany, for example, has 600 protected titles, which means, for example, that a Swedish baker cannot necessarily easily sell his services in Germany. But what is the difference between the parties here in the Swedish Parliament on trade issues? Indeed, Mr President, what separates us is what is not in the report. The truth is that we cannot discuss free trade in a vacuum, because there are winners and losers in free trade. Successful companies and industries are increasing their profitability, but some companies and industries are being shut down. One of the reasons why Swedes in general are in favour of international trade is that we have a security system that handles the fact that there are winners and losers in free trade. This meant, for example, that the worker in the Swedish shipbuilding industry when it was competed was not put on a bare hill and did not have to leave houses and homes. That is why free trade is threatened when the Right argues that compensation for the sick and the unemployed must be reduced in order for people to work. These parties have never explained how it is that countries with large general welfare systems and reasonable levels of collective insurance are also countries with low unemployment and high levels of employment. This is where the battle in Swedish trade policy stands. Without security and conversion systems, people are at risk of losing faith in free trade. Then we get leaders like Donald Trump, who win choices by smashing or tearing up the trade that exists around the world. It is important, it is right and it is necessary to pursue a policy that holds our country together and, in the long term, secures support for free trade and support for the EU's internal market. This is something that international organisations have understood. The World Bank, the IMF and the OECD are talking about the growing inequality as a threat to international trade. That is why, Mr President, I take the liberty of saying that those parties who, in other contexts and in other reports, want to reduce our social security systems and remove opportunities for transition do not realise that they are in fact the greatest threat of free trade. Instead, we must combine free trade with strong, robust security systems. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that the social democratic construction of society has always taken its starting point in the fact that all people should have the freedom to govern their own lives and be able to choose the path they should take in life. To achieve this, freedom and equality are needed, but economic growth is also needed. It is a recipe that has worked in Sweden during the 20th century, and it has also worked in the rest of the Nordic region. Everything indicates that it is also the melody of the future in 2020. If we are to have a functioning international trade in the future, we need a policy of both free trade and equality. Here in the Swedish Parliament, Mr President, it is the Social Democrats who represent the winning combination.
i-f6adaba589471443-201	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 9 on the future trade relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union. The world is in the midst of a crisis and facing fundamental challenges. These are challenges that are already at hand, with problems as if we are not dealing with them properly will put us in an extremely difficult position. Our country is a small, export- and import-dependent country in northern Europe with free trade as its idea. This has served us well in terms of increasing our welfare, and that is the key to prosperity for other countries as well. That is why it is extremely important not only for our own sake but also for the world to push ahead with openness and free trade. The alternative – protectionism – in the current crisis has exposed shortcomings where we thought it worked well. Transport within Europe has been stopped on its way to supply goods from supplier to buyer. It's not supposed to be like that. We follow in committee the information we get about EU meetings in Brussels. Sweden's position on the importance of the flow chains not being stopped is important, and here we have political agreement. This is the basis for a functioning internal market, and it is important not least in times of crisis such as this. It is important for trade, but the importance of product delivery is also a fundamental foundation in and for the functioning of the internal market, which must not be overlooked. The EU is the player who can and should be the leader, not just for the functioning of the internal market both in crisis and in everyday life. The EU should also take the lead shirt because multilateral agreements and the global network do not fall either now or in the future and because we can have a strong free trade agenda with modern agreements. Mr President, I would like to All the value chains that continue to be maintained are of benefit to our country's potential and to the global economy. The EU also needs to be developed through a broader Services Directive covering increased mobility in several sectors, such as digital services and goods. Mr President, I would like to On 31 January this year, the UK left the EU and the transitional period lasts from 1 February to the last December of this year. The UK is one of Sweden's most important trading partners, and it is in both our interest and the EU's interest to find sustainable solutions for a free trade agreement. Sweden needs to find a way for smooth solutions without bureaucracy for efficient trade for our business with the UK. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs to continue to move forward with an ambitious free trade agenda. We need trade relations between Europe and the United States. Not least, the WTO needs to be modernised, and it needs to resolve the fixed positions that prevail. The Moderates have written in the report that the Riksdag should call on the Government to take an active role in ensuring that the EU both supports the WTO and push for the necessary modernisation of the organisation. The United States is one of Sweden's largest export markets, and Swedish companies make significant direct investments in the United States. Sweden has an interest in the idea of a broad and modern free trade agreement between the parties being kept alive. Such an agreement would mean a lot to more jobs and more prosperity, but would also contribute to a strengthened transatlantic link. As this is an agreement between the two largest economies in the world, we also believe that there is great potential to create new global standards, not least in the area of environmental protection. Therefore, Sweden should be a strong voice for further negotiations with a view to achieving a complete EU-US Free Trade Agreement. Mr President, I would like to The world is the winner of the global exchange of goods and services. There is also a need for value chains in an uncertain world where it is necessary to pay attention to forces that have other purposes than mere trading. At the moment, we are in a position where Europe and the United States have basically stopped. We see paralysed economies here in the West, while China is the start of the global crisis. It is important to be sustainable economically and politically and strategically long-term during the pandemic so that companies in distress do not end up in takeovers and wrong hands. Review is crucial in times like these. What is happening in terms of competition, subsidies, property rights and corruption? Free trade moves in two directions, and it is important to build trade relations. But one must be careful and ensure that the rules of the game are followed. Sweden should at the same time review its house around new and old markets for tomorrow. We also need to be an attractive country for companies to establish themselves in. It places demands on energy available here 24:7 and which is competitive. We need efficient communications with transport routes nationally and internationally. We need to be at the top of the technology area where development is fast and AI is part of the success factor with unimagined opportunities. Mr President, I would like to In the report on trade, the Moderates want Sweden, with its expertise and functional products, to participate in more procurements. We believe that Sweden should be the driving force for acting on function, which would open up good products at the right price. We also emphasise trade as an important tool in the fight for a better environment. Access to clean and efficient energy and clean technologies are, in the long term, key factors for the world's sustainable development. In a national perspective, this means an opportunity to spread Swedish-developed technologies, as these are of high quality while at the same time having the potential to contribute internationally to a better environment with less CO2 emissions. Mr President, I would like to We believe that the government should develop a strategy to increase an exemption from the ban on sales and to raise and pursue the issue of lifting the ban on trade in seal products. The current regime is not sustainable. Furthermore, we believe that the environmental and climate issue needs to be broadened. As one of the world's most innovative countries, Sweden can switch its production to completely new, important products. We see, not least in this crisis, that we have the ability to solve new challenges in a completely new way. After the crisis, our industry may become a world leader in areas such as eco-design, and we can, for example, use our forest raw materials to a greater extent to make clothes. Mr President, I would like to Protectionism is one of the greatest threats to a well-functioning world trade. Protectionism is also one of the biggest threats to Swedish exports. In an export-dependent country such as Sweden, domestic growth is threatened if markets are closed and established trading partners are increasingly withdrawing from external competition. I would therefore like to stress the importance of pushing the free trade issue forward and of being a strong force to counter protectionist currents.
i-f6adaba589471443-221	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for our reservation 8 on the reform of the WTO. In the past, I have highlighted in this House the devastating consequences that the Corona virus has caused and continues to cause worldwide. Nearly 200 000 people have been confirmed to have died from the virus and about 2.5 million people have been confirmed to have been infected. In addition to these figures, not least the latter, there is, of course, an enormous number of darkness. I have also highlighted the increasing negative impact of the pandemic on companies, jobs and the economy. The economic wheels stop, and uncertainty in the world economy is greater than for a very long time. What initially mainly affected the Swedish tourism industry has become contagious to other parts of the business community. Today, since the start of the crisis, more than 60 000 Swedes have been given notice of dismissal, and around 100 000 people have registered with the Public Employment Service. The Minister of Finance also notes that an average of 270 000 people will be laid off each month for the remaining parts of 2020. Mr President, I would like to Given this gloomy picture of reality, several hundred thousand Swedes are affected by the economic downturn, and it is difficult to describe the anxiety and uncertainty that they must feel. The people I have spoken with, the unemployed as well as the alerted and laid off, all describe a widespread economic as well as psychological strain. I wish that, in my role as a Member of Parliament, I could have told them that it will soon be over, that the prospects for the future are bright, that we will soon have defeated the ravages of the pandemic and restored the former glory of our business and that we have stopped the spread. Unfortunately, this is not the case. On the contrary, the situation in Sweden is likely to worsen in terms of both the spread of infection and the economy. The report concerns trade policy. If you have not previously understood the importance of trade for Sweden, you should have seen this in this current situation. Sweden is far up in extremely complex global value chains that are now being reminded in practice when the Swedish manufacturing industry lacks foreign inputs. Mr President, I would like to Our wording in reservation 2 is therefore perhaps more topical today than ever: a few things would harm Sweden's economy more than if Sweden and its trading partners were to start to restrict or otherwise prevent or increase international trade. ..................................................... We're learning that now. It should, of course, be said that much of the restrictions currently in force are not voluntary or carried out by the pure malice of our trading partners. Instead, Swedish trade has been limited as a consequence of the restrictions imposed by virtually all countries, including Sweden, to limit the spread of infection. When this happens, it is clear how trade-dependent Sweden is. This means that for many industries it is less important if Sweden opens up society to 100 percent again as long as their trading partners are under lockdowns in other states. In other words, there is little evidence that in the near future our world will return to its normal state, we will see an increasing wave of notice in Sweden as both demand and inputs from the outside world slow down. Mr President, I would like to Although I and the Swedish Democrats are strong supporters of free trade and understand the value of the global value chains that have now been eliminated, I cannot help but note that with this crisis the finger has been put in three important areas. The first is precisely the importance of free trade. Therefore, when the pandemic is over, we need to evaluate any shortcomings on the part of the EU, as it is clear that various national export bans put free trade in the Union out of hand, which has affected Swedish companies. The fact that, even before the crisis, the World Trade Organisation was in need of reformation, as both we and the Moderates stressed in this report, is hardly conducive to the situation. The second is, somewhat contradictory, that in the future we cannot afford to maintain the over-reliance on the constant presence of free trade that has existed in Sweden. Of course, we should continue to work for open free trade, but it can hardly have escaped anyone that in this crisis we have not been able to rely entirely on trade with other countries. For the future, therefore, we must strengthen to a greater extent everything from our domestic food supply to our ability to independently produce various key products. This is something that the Swedish Democrats have been advocating for a long time and we now see the importance and emphasis in our reservation 16. The third is that naïveness in the face of the actions of other states on the world market must cease. It is a disgrace that Sweden today lacks instruments to stop foreign investment in Swedish socially critical companies. Despite the fact that we have repeatedly pointed this out, Mr President, the government has until now contented itself with an investigation to report back at the end of next year. This represents a real economic as well as security risk when Swedish companies are now at risk of being sold out to mainly Chinese stakeholders associated and closely linked with the same dictatorial state whose actions enabled the virus to arise and spread. Having said that, Mr President, the need for action in the field of trade policy will undoubtedly be greater than in a very long time when this pandemic is over and we will jointly try to create the conditions for the economy to return to normal again. It is a work I look forward to, and it is my hope that all parties will act as pragmaticly and as results-oriented as possible in that process. Together, we can hopefully minimise the economic consequences for the Swedish business community that the pandemic has caused.
i-f6adaba589471443-239	Mr President, I would like to Today it is trade issues that are being debated. This chamber treatment is perhaps more important and current than ever when we now see how the economies around the world may hopefully only be on pause but at worst risk of crashing. Of course, the Centre Party supports all our reservations in the report, but in order to gain some time at the vote, I only ask for the approval of reservation No 17. Over the past few weeks, I and my colleagues have been in contact with many companies to listen to the situation. One of the companies is located in Småland and is called Solutions for Tomorrow. They started in 2012 in the small community Väckelsång with an idea of mobile X-ray equipment. The Innovation Bridge, Vinnova and Almi Invest have all backed up the company – important efforts that society makes to make it easier for companies to start. The product is a smart solution where the equipment comes to the needy instead of the other way around. Solutions for Tomorrow, like many other companies, is completely dependent on international flows where the import of parts into the product is necessary and where the international market is an important part of the company's expansion and growth from the outset. The company's development is an example of how free trade creates prosperity. The pandemic we are currently experiencing globally also testifies to how sensitive we are to disturbances and crises in international relations and flows even in a small community at home in Småland. The world is more connected than we can ever see and imagine. From this we can draw two conclusions: either that we Sweden must become more independent of our environment and have more control and regulation and conclude or that the way forward is to strengthen international relations, develop both multilateral and bilateral cooperation and work towards strengthening bodies such as the WTO in its role of developing free trade. For the Center Party, Mr President, it is self-evident to have a position in which we choose the latter. There is no way back to any kind of mercantilism. It is now, in the midst of the crisis, that the choices are made and preparations can be made for a trading system that embraces innovation, meets companies and their needs and strengthens the exchange of knowledge, capital and people. It is likely to take place in some other forms than in the past, but nevertheless be characterised by the basic values that have created prosperity in Sweden and in the world since 1945. Sweden is a small and extremely trade-dependent nation in which, together with like-minded countries, we must keep the free trade standard high both for our own sake and for the prosperity of the world. I would like to take this opportunity to point out an important fact that we sometimes tend to take for granted. As news flows often reflect other continents and large countries such as the United States, China and Russia, I would like to point out that Europe is indeed the world's largest integrated market. The figure 73 is not only the number of points in the January agreement, but so many per cent of Sweden's exports go to the EU. Our membership of the EU gives us the opportunity and responsibility to pursue a free trade line that benefits both Sweden and the rest of Europe. We in the Center Party want to see a global Europe that takes responsibility and works together on cross-border issues such as free trade, human rights, democracy, security, migration and, not least, environmental issues. Swedish companies and consumers, together with the rest of the EU, are one of the world's most attractive markets. We are technology-used, and Sweden is actually used many times as a pilot market to test new ideas. It also gives the EU the opportunity to negotiate attractive and advanced trade agreements with a variety of countries and regions in the world. We need more agreements which, in addition to removing tariffs and tariffs, harmonise standards, protect investments and strengthen the environment. As I said, a large part of what we produce in Sweden goes on export and thus contributes a lot to the Swedish economy and to actually reduce emissions in other countries, for example with Swedish steel. It is both a challenge and an opportunity for our production, such as food production. Swedish quality and good Swedish animal welfare need to be spread throughout the world but also protected in Sweden. Therefore, we should not compromise on the high values and demands we have in terms of animal welfare, the environment, antibiotics, animal husbandry, health, consumer protection and other things when trade agreements are to be signed. I also note that Business Sweden has reported in its reports to the Committee on Economic Affairs that it has changed considerably in view of the ravages of the coronapandemin. On the other side of Corona, when we get out of the worst crisis, opportunities can be opened up for an innovation country like Sweden. To put it this way, Sweden can provide the world with new products and services when the world needs them most. We are strong, not least in healthcare products. Therefore, it is also important that Business Sweden can maintain its momentum so that you are prepared to be of service when needed. Mr President, I would like to With the rise of this pandemic, the whole playing field is changing. We know very little about the future right now, and it is not possible to make certain statements. What about the global value chains that have been built up? Will we see significant changes in production and processing patterns? Will it even become the case that continents, such as Europe, China and the United States, will stop and act more individually? Or can we convince each other that the solutions lie in working together by strengthening trade and investment and creating a more sustainable interdependence? For the Center Party, it goes without saying that we need more security policy, environmental integration and trade with each other. We believe that Sweden should work tirelessly to strengthen our companies' ability to compete internationally and at the same time stand up for openness, trust in international regulations and trust that free trade leads to mutual gain.
i-f6adaba589471443-253	Mr President, I would like to We are debating report NU15 on trade policy. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 20 on sustainable entrepreneurship. Sweden is a country dependent on foreign trade. Much of what we use daily would not exist or could be produced here if it were not for foreign trade. Many of our companies depend on both importing and exporting. They have global value chains, and global value chains have a major impact on both growth and employment both here in Sweden and in other countries. I would say that we have a responsibility to change what these value chains and international agreements look like. Is there economic growth at today's level we need? We have a complex situation in the world today. The Corona crisis has exposed it even more. We see that the number of murders of climate, soil, water and indigenous activists is increasing. We can also see that undemocratic forces are being strengthened. When the environment and human rights are eliminated, opportunities for solving global problems such as pandemics, climate and the environment are reduced. These issues are highly interlinked. For us to achieve the global sustainability goals and be able to deal with global crises, the business community needs to be fully involved. Therefore, it is important to take responsibility along the whole chain and to get companies to be the driving force in terms of human rights from raw materials to completing your ad product. The problem today is that countries are not consistent or obliged to impose responsibilities on companies in dealing with human rights. A binding agreement should regulate the responsibility of companies for the global supply chain and facilitate cross-border conduct. Several countries are unwilling to introduce binding human rights standards on their own, because they fear that it would be a competitive disadvantage for their own companies or because they are simply not democratic rule of law. In addition, global value chains are based on generating profits along the entire chain. If you do not create enough profit here, you go to countries where you can create profit through poorer conditions for workers and where the environment can be eliminated. Therefore, we need to impose legal requirements on Swedish companies to respect human rights and environmental due diligence. There are many examples of our companies not taking their responsibilities. In both the food trade, the mining industry and the clothing industry, there is evidence of wages under the poverty line, child labour and exposure to pollution leading to diseases and poisoned water, air and soil. We can take Lundin Gold as an example. It is a company owned by the Swedish Canadian Lundin family. Their gold mine in Ecuador risks destroying water supplies, food supplies, sources of income and Amazon forest. The indigenous Shuar people, Ecuador's second largest minority population, have been taken away from their homes and lands. The Shuar people lived in the region long before the European conquerors. Their land stretches across the borderland between Ecuador and Peru, where the world's largest rainforest spreads. It is in this nature protected forest, next to the nature reserve El Zarza, that the Swedish Canadian mining company has bought over 700 square kilometers of land to build one of the world's largest gold mines. It is a nature reserve whose boundaries have already changed, in favour of the mining company. Another example is H & M, who promised to improve but did not really do anything to increase the wages of textile workers or demand that cotton producers in China should not use forced labour. When the question is asked about the forced workers, the answer is: a) We work in the same way with suppliers in all markets, to ensure that they all sign our sustainability obligation and comply with national laws. In parts of Chile the water has been privatised. Among other things, French companies have bought up all water supplies in certain areas. There, organized small farmers and environmentalists are persecuted and threatened to death. The local population is forced to live on ten litres of water a day. It is water that should be enough for themselves but also for the animals and the farms. Children are not allowed to go to the bathroom more than twice a day in schools, and there are areas where faeces bags are forced to be used due to water shortages. The transnational companies that have changed and stopped the course of water then sell the water to those who live around the dried-out banks of the river. This situation is further exacerbated by the fact that avocado and citrus production drys up groundwater. It is avocados and citrus fruits that we then see in our local grocery store. Small farmers have lost 80 percent of their animals because of the artificial drought and are unable to grow for their own livelihood. Things go hand in hand, such as the exploitation and pursuit of prices. But it also applies to competition between companies that respect the environment and human rights all the way and companies that make their profits by violating them. Here we must be able to perform better by revising the action plan and introducing binding agreements for multinational companies. That is why I believe that we should support the climate and environmental impact of the motion on foreign policy, Amendment No 12 and Amendment No 13. It is simply about our future. Destroying water supplies or impairing air and soil quality in other parts of the world directly affects the local population through poorer conditions to face a pandemic such as the one we face today. The lack of water due to mining and the privatisation of water impairs the possibility for local people to meet, for example, the sanitary conditions required by the coronapndemine. The emissions that our production creates there do not only create deteriorating conditions. We cannot simply leave the responsibility to indigenous activists to try to protect this and thereby risk their lives. We must realise that this does not only affect the local population. We must realise that the environment that is being destroyed and the emissions that are being created there ultimately affect the climate and therefore us. It is time for our companies to take responsibility along the whole chain. This must be statutory. It has never been more important to use trade policy as the political instrument it actually is because of the coronapndemin and the climate crisis that we are living in. So far, the Left Party is the only Swedish party to take a clear stand on this issue. We believe that all trade must take place with great regard to the environment and climate, to the rights of workers and indigenous peoples and with great transparency for the public. For example, if a country cannot undertake to comply with the Paris Agreement, the EU should not sign a trade agreement with that country. We also call for the current trade agreement with the Mercosur countries to be stopped and for binding climate and environmental commitments to be entered into immediately. However, since we have an approach whereby we highlight a single reservation, I choose to mention only the reservation relating to Mercosur. Furthermore, I would like to point out that the restrictions that have stopped protective equipment from reaching the countries that needed it during a burning pandemic have revealed that the European Union has not had sufficient rapid capacity to solve our common problems. Hopefully we will not see a repeat of this. But it is important that the EU's internal market is based on what is best for its citizens and, of course, the climate.
i-f6adaba589471443-272	Madam President, I would like Getting the spread of infection under control and protecting human life is the absolute primary task right now. At the same time, extraordinary efforts are also needed to combat mass unemployment and corporate exclusion. The economy is turning. Varslen is record high, and the government tracks unemployment around 9 percent. Many companies have already succumbed. Many others ask themselves, ‘ Am I gonna be okay tomorrow? ' Our economy is intimately linked with other countries. Exports represent about half of GDP and employ 1 1⁄2 million Swedes. In order for exports to flow, imports of inputs are also required. The WTO's call for dark trade forecasts should therefore sound extra loud here. The WTO's most optimistic scenario also means a great deal of courage. The fact that the US economy is bleeding is critical to the whole world economy. In three weeks, 17 million Americans applied for unemployment benefit. This compares with the 2008 crisis when 10 million Americans applied for unemployment benefit in six months. This is not a classic economic crisis, but a virus-driven crisis in which acting companies and other companies that are actually viable perish. Companies are calling for lifebuoys to keep them above the surface. With the right support, Sweden can be well equipped in global competition when the crisis is over. The government has had an open attitude to proposals from us in the opposition and to business organisations, and it has put forward several support packages. However, we Christian Democrats believe that the support is still too cheap and in some cases have inadequate structures. Take the lay-off allowance as an example! There is a rule that temporary staff must be dismissed. It counters the aim of the aid and drives higher than necessary unemployment. People are in danger of being knocked out instead of standing ready when the crisis is over. We have pointed this out. We have also pointed out that direct support for fixed costs must be up at the levels of our neighbours Denmark and Norway. For many companies, the fixed costs are impossible to influence, and even if the staff are laid off, rents cannot be paid with non-existent income. Today's rent support, which goes through the landlord, has not been well spent in practice. A number of sectors are not covered. Other fixed costs, such as leasing contracts, remain a burden. The Christian Democrats have proposed a model in which we go up to 85 billion in support, compared with today's 5 billion. Madam President, I would like The Corona infection risks becoming a pretext for increased protectionism. We saw trends even before the crisis, and difficult circumstances may trigger further closure. But protectionism has serious consequences and makes us all poorer. Here and now, in the midst of the fight against infectious diseases, cooperation is also vital to life. The export restrictions imposed by some EU countries must be removed. Here, Sweden will continue to be an active voice for a functioning internal market. We have seen how vital medical equipment has been kept for days. It is unacceptable behaviour, and it is good that the government has indicated against it. But this will require in-depth discussion in the future. It is about trust in each other in the Union. We Christian Democrats also agree that, at this point, the European Union must abolish VAT and customs duties on medical equipment, including for companies. Everything must be done to protect life. Madam President, I would like In this context, I would like to emphasise that the weakening of the economy entails an increased risk of foreign direct investment of strategic assets that are of a problematic security policy nature. There is an ongoing investigation into rules and the introduction of review mechanisms. This date is until November 2021. Here, however, solutions need to be found earlier in response to the current crisis. It is extremely urgent. Madam President, I would like Swedish trade policy should be based on an understanding of the benefits of free trade for the economy, to combat poverty and to combat ill health. This means that we in the EU should push for more and better trade agreements with the outside world. This also means that we are raising our voice globally against destructive protectionist tendencies and for a well-functioning world trade. This is extremely important, not least in this situation. I am in favour of reservation 5 in the report.
i-f6adaba589471443-282	Madam President, I would like Globalisation and free trade are very fine. This is partly about development and partly about increased prosperity. Globalisation and free trade have allowed people every day to move from extreme poverty to security. The world has never had as small a share of the poor as it is today, and that is much thanks to globalisation. Increased trade has strengthened both our own and other countries' economy, development and prosperity. No one could believe just a few months ago what the world would be today. The Coronapendem has clearly demonstrated certain vulnerabilities in our society and in our access to strategically important goods, such as medical supplies. Unfortunately, this has led to some voices calling for a return to a more nationalistic and protectionist trade in order to secure access to important goods. It is good that the government has highlighted these issues. This would be completely the wrong way to go and would not only damage Sweden's image as a free trade-friendly and progressive country, but also have serious consequences for Swedish companies and the Swedish economy. Let's refresh our memory a little. As an export-dependent country, Sweden has benefited enormously from access to, for example, the EU's internal market with 500 million consumers. In short, the Swedish economy is closely intertwined with and dependent on the internal market. The reintroduction of customs duties and barriers to trade in order to safeguard Swedish interests would be counterproductive and would do more harm than good. In the suites after the coronapndemine, the economy will have to be restarted. In this situation, limiting the market for Swedish companies would be devastating. The EU must continue to safeguard the free movement of goods, services and capital, and the EU should oppose Member States' attempts at protectionist proposals and instead develop the internal market. It should be easier for companies to operate in the EU, and the regulatory burden for traders therefore needs to be reduced. At a time when protectionism is growing, I believe that Europe should be a strong voice for free trade and stand up for the rule-based international trade regime. The EU will work to reduce all kinds of trade barriers and to develop and modernise the WTO. When the development of the WTO is blocked, the EU must push for trade liberalisations where interested countries participate and negotiate comprehensive free trade agreements – free trade agreements permeated by the EU's common values and contribute to long-term sustainability globally. That does not mean, however, that reforms are not required, but these are to be implemented together in EU cooperation, not on our own. It is also clear from the Commission's industrial strategy that safe access to strategic goods is a priority area and that work is under way to reduce the Union's dependence on third countries. Here, Sweden should be fully involved and provide knowledge and expertise to design procedures that secure EU and Sweden's access to strategically important goods. A free trade agreement between the EU and the US would contribute to increased trade and would set a global standard for trade worldwide. As soon as the political conditions exist, Sweden should push for the EU and the US to resume TTIP negotiations. Increased trade with the US would also reduce the EU's dependence on China and Russia. Furthermore, the EU's regional partnership for Africa, which offers duty-free and easy exports to the EU, should be developed. I would also like to point out that global trade must not stop as a result of Brexit, especially in the current situation of the coronapandemy. Without a far-reaching trade agreement between the UK and the EU that allows for a continued smooth trade, but at the same time requires the continued free movement of persons, services, capital and goods, the consequences would be extremely serious, mainly for the UK but also for the EU Member States. In these times, it is incredibly important not to prevent economic recovery in the wake of the coronapandemine. The fact that China is constantly trying to increase its influence around the world is nothing new. China and Russia are both examples of countries investing strategically in Europe, including ports and energy supply. The EU and its Member States must be able to protect themselves against investment from states and companies with dishonest interests. Weakened economies and weakened companies as a result of closures due to Corona are now increasing the risk of China contracting companies in economic crisis. It is therefore of the utmost importance that we look at the possibilities available to prevent this and what measures are needed to safeguard Swedish interests. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would also like to highlight Nordic cooperation. It is important not to detract from Nordic cooperation in the Nordic Council. In the Nordic countries, we have repeatedly shown that we are stronger together. Our liberal, democratic and inclusive societies, where all citizens participate and have responsibilities and rights, are strong societies that can cope with even the greatest challenges. Together we can find common Nordic solutions in areas where the Nordic countries can achieve greater results by working together than by solving the tasks separately. Madam President, I would like Free trade and globalisation are important issues that we must defend and develop both in normal and current times of crisis. It's very important. Of course, we support all our reservations, but in order to save time, I only ask for reservation 6.
i-f6adaba589471443-295	Madam President, I would like The Corona crisis affects everyone's everyday life in general and small. We are still in an unprecedented crisis. There are many challenges for trade policy as well. We've seen how medical equipment stuck to land borders-- protective masks, ventilators, and tests. Sweden and the government are a strong driving force for the functioning of the EU's internal market, so that medical equipment does not get stuck to national borders. The equipment's supposed to get where it's best used. The Government and Sweden are running the Trade for Health trade initiative, which aims to remove customs duties on medical equipment. We also want to see this on a global scale. There is a dialogue with the WTO on the elimination of tariffs on medical equipment, both in coronatides and when the crisis is over. Now we are in an acute phase with a focus on reducing the spread of infection and ensuring that people can keep their jobs. At the same time, however, we need to put our thoughts on the reconstruction of society and on what comes in the wake of the crisis. We need to draw experience from this time in order to build a more robust and resilient society. The Corona crisis is affecting future trade patterns. For decades we have seen a trend of globalisation. Companies have production chains that span several countries. The Corona crisis has exposed the sensitivity of these production chains. There are researchers who believe that global companies themselves will complement their global chains with regional production chains. Even before the pandemic we could see such a trend, which was caused by digitalisation and automation. Local production is important, for example in the case of food and increased local renewable energy production, so that we have good emergency preparedness. At the same time, it is very important that we do not become protectionist. We must not close doors and close others out. There are such tendencies. Developing countries are very hard hit by the Corona crisis. A report by Oxfam shows that half a billion people are at risk of being pushed back into poverty as a consequence of the pandemic. Sweden has contributed SEK 40 million to the WHO crisis fund and SEK 100 million to the UN's major humanitarian emergency package, which is aimed at the world's most vulnerable countries. The government is a clear voice for fair trade that takes into account the interests of developing countries. For example, there is a trade-related development cooperation called Aid for Trade. Here, Sweden works together with governments, authorities and organisations to provide developing countries with support to benefit from the benefits of trade. Madam President, I would like When we rebuild our society, we're not gonna run into old tracks. We need to focus on green reconstruction. Already before, the government has ensured that Sweden is the first country to end up with fossil export credits. Sweden should not be a country that pumps around the dying coal and oil industry, which now even wants to be paid to get rid of the oil; it was the minus price the other day. Instead, Sweden should make sure to push for climate-smart solutions. It is very important that Sweden push for the abolition of tariffs for climate-friendly goods, services and technologies so that the pace of climate change can increase, both in the EU and globally. Initiatives are needed here in the future. It is also very important that trade agreements are in line with the Paris Agreement and in line with human rights. This is also included in the Climate Action Plan. A little less than a year ago, the Amazon rain forest burned, and world leaders focused their attention on Brazil and the Mercosur Trade Agreement. As long as Brazil devastates the rainforest and as long as environmentalists and indigenous peoples have to risk their lives to keep their homes, we cannot sign this. We need to press for very clear conditions in order to ratify the agreement. In general, we need to push forward very clearly in order for sanctions to be available in relation to the sustainability chapters. Madam President, I would like We live in difficult times. It is important that we show solidarity and stick together, both in Sweden and within the EU. It is important that we show solidarity with developing countries and that we actively work for duty-free on goods and to provide them with support to develop their trade. It is important that in the future we do not drive into old fossil tracks but build a robust and climate-smart sustainable society with a belief in the future. In doing so, I am in favour of Amendment No 7 and the other amendments tabled by the committee.
i-f6adaba589471443-305	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Foreign Affairs' regular report on human rights. It is, as you know, an extremely comprehensive document which also touches on very important issues. Today I choose to focus mainly on the UN and the work of democracy. But that certainly does not mean that other issues are less important. Fundamental human rights and freedoms are universal. They are equally important and valid for all people wherever they live, here in Sweden or in any other country. I feel confident to note that all parties in the Swedish Parliament wish to work for more countries to live up to the entire UN Declaration of Human Rights with that very starting point. However, we see examples of how the concept of human rights is watered down. In a Swedish context, it is often used to describe rights that may well be desirable, but which lack foundation in international law. We also see how the concept is used internationally, even though what we are talking about is not at all rooted in the universal that we see as self-evident. The Cairo Declaration is one such example that can in no way be considered compatible with the UN Declaration of Human Rights. On the contrary, the whole purpose of the Cairo Declaration is to legitimise oppression by sweeping oppression into fine words in order to gain acceptance in countries like Sweden. By referring to this document, countries with a more modern view of, for example, equality or freedom of religion should be deceived into action that is in no way acceptable or meets fundamental rights. In view of this, I would therefore like to stress the importance of limiting the concept we are talking about to rights that are actually internationally recognised. Madam President, I would like The UN is the primary mechanism for international cooperation in the field of cooperation for democracy and human rights. Since its founding in 1945, the UN has been an intergovernmental organisation and an association of nations, based on the basic principle that all its members are free and equal. That is, of course, a principle that we must all uphold. However, the defence of fundamental and fundamental human rights and freedoms is the supreme principle of sovereignty. History has taught us that no states, even democratic and well-functioning ones, can be allowed unlimited room for manoeuvre on these issues. For this reason, UN cooperation is needed to ensure the individual's safety against abuses by repressive regimes and to promote positive developments in more countries, including countries that are already at the forefront of human rights issues. Madam President, I would like Because the UN is such an urgent cooperation, it is important that the structure of the organisation works. The biggest threat to the UN, in my opinion, is its own organisation, and when it is lacking, confidence is reduced. We must work to ensure that more Member States ratify the conventions and that more Member States live up to their commitments as Member States of the United Nations. How can the organisation gain respect if the various UN bodies are led by states that obviously do not meet the most basic requirements for respect for human rights? I don't even have to say more than Saudi Arabia in order for all of you and the vast majority of you to understand what I am talking about. Sweden must work harder to make demands that those who lead the UN work themselves lead by example. While we are at it with a good example, Sweden is ranked today as one of the world's least corrupt countries. That, of course, is something we should be proud of. The UN is a huge organisation, with a huge budget and with a huge variety of systems to take into account. Unfortunately, we also know that the UN is faced with significant problems, including corruption and crime. Normally, UN personnel cannot be prosecuted or torturing disputes with the UN in the courts of their own country. Supposed offences or other disputes are dealt with exclusively through internal mechanisms, whether in the case of a dispute between the UN as an employer and its employees or alleged irregularities committed by staff in the service of the organisation. This means, of course, that the heavy responsibility for proper management lies with the UN, which in many cases depends on information from its own staff. For this reason, it is extremely important that whistleblowers within the organisation receive sufficient protection. We have to make sure they get it. Their protection is crucial to the confidence of the UN in the public and to a large extent in its future as an institution. Therefore, Sweden should initiate an investigation within the UN whose objective should be to present sharp proposals for reforms of both the immunity issue, the dispute resolution mechanisms and whistleblower protection in addition to an otherwise strengthened international work against corruption. Madam President, I would like What we are good at in Sweden is democracy. Sure, it's not perfect even in Sweden. But the fact is that our neighbourhood consists of the world's most successful countries in this regard, and Sweden is also one of the world's oldest democracies. Democracy may not only be seen as fundamental in order to safeguard human rights, but also as part of the work to promote positive social development at large. Black and white we see that it is the democratic states that have the best economic development, the best education and the greatest political influence. Last but not least, the risk of two democratic countries going to war with each other is very low and almost non-existent. It is therefore a system that benefits safety. Public and free elections create responsibility and clear out inappropriate policy options. However, not all elections are universal or free, unfortunately, although they may look that way. Among the least developed countries, governments have a re-election rate of 88%. The rate in the OECD is 45%. Here we see how this with universal and free elections can look completely different depending on how you measure it. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats see democracy as the only way for the least developed countries to achieve development and success. However, I would like to stress very carefully, especially now that the government has for a year announced an alleged pro-democracy offensive, that a functioning democracy is more than just general elections. There are major shortcomings in the way donor countries and the international community deal with the question of electoral movements in recipient countries. We can see Iraq and Afghanistan as an example. There have been examples of elections that have led to fragmentation and deterioration in the physical safety of the population and so on. The international community must have a strictly scientific approach to the question of elections and political campaigns in poor and unstable countries. It is important not only to use general elections as a simple solution to very complex problems for the security of the local population, but also not to undermine confidence in democracy as a form of government. Madam President, I would like The international community, which we know today, was formed in many ways after the Second World War, not least in connection with the formation of the United Nations. Cooperation through the UN was primarily aimed at preventing a third world war, so it was also important that both democracies and dictatorships were included. Today we know that the democratic states are not at all the backbone of cooperation. Nevertheless, it is important for this forum to exist in order to enable dialogue between literally the whole world. However, it lacks something as a democratic alliance, which is why we Swedish democrats want to see a new initiative for an international association between all the democratic countries of the world. It is in addition to trying to get a checklist of criteria in order to ensure that countries are democratic. In the future, the Association can play a crucial role in constantly evaluating and developing democracy, but also in disseminating knowledge of democracy. With this cooperation, the member states of the League could also be a stronger voice in other bodies, such as the United Nations, which is currently working on fundamental human rights, among other things. To conclude, Madam President, I note that I have exceeded the speaking time. I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2. Of course, we also support the other SD reservations in the report.
i-f6adaba589471443-333	Madam President, I would like The Left Party criticises any violation of human rights regardless of where or when they are committed or with which motives they are committed. We want to see a just and equal world where all people have the same opportunities to live the life they want. There we can all live in freedom from poverty, freedom from injustice, freedom from violence, freedom from racism, freedom to our bodies and to our love and freedom to see our children grow up in security and gain the knowledge and support they need to become the best they can. We want all people to be able to have a good working life where they realize themselves and receive a good salary and pension. The freedom of every human being is linked to the freedom of all human beings and to a society that allows and makes it possible. It is in fair and equal societies that people's freedom grows at its strongest. Our solidarity is local and global. That is why we are pursuing a policy of ending capitalism, patriarchy, racism and the exploitation of our earth's resources. It is only when we reach a society that is for everyone and where everyone's human rights are satisfied. We have a number of important motions and motions dealing with or leading to the fulfilment of human rights, although they have not been included in this report or even on the table of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I choose to highlight some of them here in order to show that many decisions are needed to achieve the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Our motion on tax evasion is about human rights. In fact, when people and businesses slip away from paying taxes, we get less resources into welfare, which is there for everyone and not just a few. Welfare ensures, among other things, rights Nos 22, 25, 26 and 27 relating to the right to social security, health, good living conditions, education and culture. It is estimated that Sweden loses SEK 40 billion annually, according to research from Berkeley University. In the world, we're talking about considerably more money than that. There could be a lot of welfare for that money. Unfortunately, most other parties seem to consider it reasonable that those who already have a lot of money should be able to commit tax offences almost entirely risk-free. These parties, for example, do not want to introduce country-by-country reporting. Our claim that Swedish companies must comply with human rights due diligence is about human rights. Human rights due diligence means that Swedish companies that establish themselves in other countries must ensure that employees have decent working conditions, the right to join unions and decent wages that are viable – as stated in Article 23 of the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Today we know that this is not the case. Seammakers work under poor conditions to poor wages. Children and young people work in mines where metals for our batteries are extracted. Good conditions and wages that give a decent life would lift a significant proportion out of the clutches of poverty. Unfortunately, most other parties think it is reasonable for Swedish companies to exploit poor people and make even greater profits at their expense, as they do not want to introduce human rights due diligence. Our motion that Sweden should absolutely not be allowed to export arms to countries that violate human rights or that are undemocratic is about human rights. Two reports in a row have shown that Sweden exports to unreasonable countries after the new law, which says that Sweden should not export to such countries, came into force. The Philippines, whose President has put in place a system in which drug dealers are murdered without a right to trial, and the Saudi-led coalition bombing Yemen is just a few examples. Unfortunately, most other parties do not believe that Sweden should have serious human rights violations as an absolute obstacle to arms exports. Madam President, I would like For many years human rights have benefited more in a larger number of countries, but in recent times we have seen people's lives and space being increasingly restricted. Unfortunately, during the current pandemic, certain regimes have taken the opportunity to introduce laws and rules that can only be seen as an attack on human rights. This is happening at a time when they are more important than ever before. It does not only happen in countries that can be said to be far away, but also countries close to Sweden are affected. The ongoing coronapndemine requires exceptional measures. At the same time, attempts to stop the spread of infection must never be an excuse for authoritarian leaders to restrict human rights. How different countries act during the current crisis will affect the democratic rights and freedoms of millions of people for a long time. It is therefore particularly important to stand up for democratic principles and values and to safeguard the rule of law. Let me give you some examples of what the media and Amnesty report countries and states have made up while this pandemic is raging: In Kenya, a 13-year-old was shot on his balcony by police officers to enforce the curfew. In India, migrant workers without jobs were forced to walk long distances to get home when trains and buses were no longer running. At the provincial borders, they were sprayed with chemicals that can cause skin, eye and lung damage. A doctor in Russia was imprisoned shortly after he went out with the country's failure to prepare for the pandemic. Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has authorised the security services to carry out mass surveillance in the fight against the spread of the Corona virus. Paraguay's Minister for Home Affairs has praised the police when they humiliated and filmed people who broke the curfew. During the quarantine period, President Duterte has urged the Philippines police to shoot at those who are considered troublemakers. Roma settlements in Slovakia and Bulgaria have been placed in forced quarantine. Several countries, as well as states in the United States, are taking the opportunity to introduce laws that restrict women's and girls' right to control their own bodies by imposing an abortion ban. In the wake of the curfew, women and children are subjected to even more domestic violence. Madam President, I would like Today, I choose to accept reservation 7. It is about democracy and the shrinking space of civil society. Civil society plays a central role in democratic systems and in democratic development. It acts as both watchdog and whistleblower when abuse has been committed, rights violated or development is heading in the wrong direction. It acts as a responsibility for promised reforms and decisions, but also as a source of information for both the population of a country and the rest of the world. In some cases, civil society offers services and functions that the state is unable to deliver. During this pandemic, when some leaders impose sanctions that violate human rights more than before, civil society is even more needed. CSOs around the world are struggling to prevent people from having their rights violated, and those actors need more tools, more platforms and additional funds to change for the better. These are the ones who often stand in the front line to protect people who suffer unjustly during the course of the Corona virus. Together we can change the current world order and create a society that is for everyone and where everyone's human rights are satisfied. It is simply a world for everyone, not just for the richest.
i-f6adaba589471443-348	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' reservation to be approved 4. We are now in a global crisis as a result of covid-19. It is a health crisis and an economic crisis, but it is also very much a political and democratic crisis. Of course, these crises are linked in different ways. But the problem is that while a health crisis can be rolled back and one can recover from an economic crisis, the risk is very great that a political and democratic crisis will have very long-lasting consequences. What we are seeing now, Madam President, is that the pandemic is being used by leaders of a series of rough-handed and undemocratic regimes in the world to increase repression in their countries. The pandemic becomes a pretext for carrying out more checks on the population in the broad sense and on oppositionists in particular. One can use the crisis to stamp out minorities and claim that they are more likely to carry the infection and so on. Undemocratic regimes can thus use the coronapendem in quite a few ways to strengthen repression. There is also a great risk that the restrictions on civil liberties implemented will not be rolled back after the pandemic. Sweden is a democracy, and we too have imposed restrictions. For example, meetings may not be held with more than 50 persons. It is a restriction on freedom of assembly, and we should be aware of that. In Sweden, which is a democracy with a democratically elected parliament, however, that restriction will be rolled back when the crisis is over, and then Sweden will return to normal position again. In the same way, Sweden has historically imposed restrictions when necessary, not least during the Second World War. After the war, they were then rolled back, and that is how democracy works. I believe that we can all accept more controls when flying and so on if we are forced to increase the security situation as a result of, for example, terrorist threats. I believe that the vast majority of us accept that this is the case, and when the situation then stabilises or returns to normal, the restrictions are rolled back. Madam President, I would like For example, the legislation adopted in Hungary gives Viktor Orbán and the Hungarian regime a lot of powers for an unlimited period of time, and this is where we get into the problem: on the one hand, Hungary, which is still some kind of semi-democracy, is now taking a step in the wrong direction, and on the other hand, we are in danger of further restrictions and tightening up in terms of control society and repression, and so on, which are not withdrawn after the pandemic. In addition, we see a further risk of human rights and democracy, namely the fact that the economic crisis and the fact that a great many people become unemployed are in danger of fattening more intolerant and destructive forces in societies all over the world. This means, in the long run, that gapnecks and extremists can have greater political influence, and we should be quite worried about this. We say a bit of a routine that democracy must be won every day and for every generation. But what if we now begin to lose democracy for a future generation? Then this somewhat cliché statement that democracy must be won for every generation suddenly becomes very real and extremely central. It becomes something that really becomes really important. With leaders in the world like Donald Trump, Putin, Xi Jinping, Erdo中an, Bolsonaro, Viktor Orbán, Duterte and others you should be quite worried about this. These are large and influential countries with very large military capabilities. These are countries that have a great influence on their neighbours, in their regions and so on. With a world development in which democracy is weakened, where the so-called multilateral world order that we have built since the Cold War is gradually undermined and where global agreements do not matter so much anymore, it is clear that one should become increasingly worried. Madam President, I would like What is important for the Liberals is to focus more on democracy and human rights in our development and aid policy. Sweden is a very ambitious donor of aid, and this means that we should also do more to strengthen the forces working for democratic reforms and human rights. We also need a more active foreign policy to strengthen democratic forces in the world and to support those who want to see less of oppression and more of freedom. It is also important to strengthen European cooperation. The European Union is the result of the fact that, after what Hitler and Stalin burned down in Europe, it came to the conclusion that now we really need to build democracy, open societies and a new future in freedom and democracy for all citizens of Europe. European cooperation is extremely important in order to continue this development, and that is why European cooperation must be strengthened. Then there is another concern, Madam President, and that is that a number of the regimes and leaders that I lined up have expansionist ambitions. For example, they are interested in buying critical infrastructure in Sweden and other countries and can act very loudly via their embassies to try to silence critical voices around the world. This applies not least to Russia and China, and it is something that we must vigorously oppose. I therefore welcome all the proposals made by my party and by other parties that we should have stronger regulations and stronger protection for our critical infrastructure.
i-f6adaba589471443-362	Madam President, I would like The area that we are debating today is not only without borders but also without borders. It is a foundation for any society that wants to call itself civilized. As many have already said in this debate, we are living in a time of upheaval, to say the least, not just on the basis of the pandemic that we are currently experiencing and that will change our world for a long time to come. We are also living in a time where more and more autocratic leaders see the nation's strength as an argument for being able to act in full accordance with their own interests without thinking about the consequences this brings in a wider perspective. Fredrik Malm mentioned a handful: Duterte, Órban, Putin, Xi Jinping, Bolsonaro, Trump. In a debate like this, you can talk about so many different things. I will choose a few perspectives today. What is interesting about these authoritarian leaders is that some of their first goals when they take office are often to pursue the rights of minorities and women. In recent years, we have also seen that the contradictions in this area have grown. If we look at some examples that have already been in this debate, we can see that the current pandemic provides some of these authoritarian forces with additional opportunities. It is extremely worrying that politicians are using the Corona crisis to restrict the rights of women and LGBT people in particular. In Poland, when people cannot go out protesting, they are now in a position to bring forward a bill for total ban on abortion and sexual education for children and young people. When the corresponding government tried to make the same change in 2016, people in Poland left the house on the streets. Now they are quarantined in homes, as the government is of course aware. In the United States, several states are now trying to stop abortions with the argument that medical resources should be spent on the fight against covid-19. For example, Texas takes the opportunity to include abortion in those procedures that are not considered immediately medically necessary. In Hungary, Orbán uses his new corona powers, which allow him to rule by decree. Apparently, he thinks that one of the really important measures when the pandemic hits the country is about restricting transgender rights. One of the new laws means that it should no longer be allowed to legally change sex. We see a clear increase in polarisation on these issues both within the EU and within the UN, where agreements already made are being called into question. We see that a number of countries are intently focusing on restricting rights. As I said, it is not only Iran and Saudi Arabia, but we see that this movement is led by the United States and Brazil – two countries that we previously saw as allies in the fight for equality and equal rights. We also see human rights and human rights defenders being challenged, attacked and imprisoned both in individual countries and in international systems. The pro-democracy offensive to counter the authoritarian development that we see in many countries and which the government has begun is important. We know that the link between human rights and democracy is clear. Sweden has also been a member of the LGBTI Core Group cooperation platform since September 2019, where states, the UN and the EU and civil society participate. This enables Sweden, together with like-minded people, to press for change and for an improved situation for LGBT people worldwide. When open and tolerant democratic society is pushed back, it takes more forms. Discrimination, harassment and violence linked to people's religious and non-religious identities have also increased sharply in line with the global decline in human rights, democracy and the rule of law in recent years. Religion has been politicized, and nationalism with religious elements is gaining ground on a broad front. The resistance is a strong voice for democracy, a rule-based world order and respect for human rights and the rule of law. Sweden's voice in the world is needed. It is needed to speak for those whose voices are now threatening to be silenced. It is needed to defend a world order based on agreed rules and not the power politics of the strong. Let me conclude my speech with a quote from Rosa Parks: You must never be fearful about what you are doing when you know it is right. With that, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal and reject the reservations.
i-f6adaba589471443-379	Madam President, I would like I am fully behind what Annika Strandhäll highlighted in her speech. Of course, no government should be able to assert special conditions such as tradition, culture or religion as an excuse for violating human rights, as we have written in the report. Nor should it be possible for the Swedish Government to legitimise violations of human rights in other countries by referring to economic or so-called security policy reasons. Unfortunately, this is precisely what happens when Swedish ministers go on trade-promoting trips to Saudi Arabia or the United Arab Emirates, countries that repeatedly violate human rights. As far as arms exports are concerned, the government seems to see no problem whatsoever in allowing them to happen to the Saudi-led coalition bombing Yemen. In connection with Turkey's military offensive in northern Syria, the Strategic Product Inspection decided to stop all arms exports to Turkey with immediate effect, which was a wise and correct decision. It is remarkable that the corresponding signals from the government are lacking in relation to the humanitarian disaster in Yemen. Yesterday there was a good debate article by Foreign Minister Linde, Minister Eriksson and Minister Hallberg, in which they emphasise that global cooperation must be strengthened even more now during the pandemic. Of course, we in the Left Party agree with that. As writers, we also believe that Sweden should support UN Secretary General Guterres in the work to bring about a global cease-fire. It is very good that Sweden is working actively with the parties to the Yemeni conflict to ensure that agreements are respected. However, Madam President, I would like to ask Annika Strandhäll whether it is not time for the government to live up to paragraph 70 of the January agreement on the export of armaments to the Saudi-led coalition.
i-f6adaba589471443-383	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Yasmine Posio, for a good and important question! I am convinced that Yasmine Posio is well aware that Sweden has one of the world's strictest regulations for arms exports and that arms exports are tested on the basis of this regulatory framework, as the parliament and government have established. No new export permits have been issued since 2013 for Saudi Arabia and 2017 for the United Arab Emirates, and the KEX agreement has further tightened our regulations. In the January agreement, there is also a principled approach not to approve arms export deals with non-democratic countries involved in the Yemeni military conflict. The government, of course, has every intention of living up to the agreement it has entered into in these parts as well.
i-f6adaba589471443-386	Madam President, I would like I thank Annika Strandhäll for the answer – although it is not just us in the Left Party who believe that it does not really last. Nor does the large Swedish peace movement or the civil society organisations working on development aid, which points out that this must end. Unfortunately, the countries of the Saudi-led coalition are not the only countries to which Sweden exports arms, which are to be seen as undemocratic countries or countries which seriously violate human rights. The Philippines, Brazil and Pakistan are some of these countries. I therefore wonder, Annika Strandhäll, what can make it reasonable for Sweden to export war material to these countries?
i-f6adaba589471443-389	Madam President, I would like I note that we are making a different assessment from the Left Party on this issue. I stand by the answer I just gave, that is, we are extremely restrictive on the Swedish side. We follow the rules laid down by this Parliament and by the Government. The parts of the January agreement where we have made agreements on the efforts in Yemen and other parts, for example, are fully in line with that, and we will also fulfil this. But basically we have different views on Swedish arms exports.
i-f6adaba589471443-391	Madam President, I would like The motion report we are debating today contains motions from the general exercise period 2018/19 and 2019/20. This means that many of the motions contained in the report have been at rest for a long time, Madam President. Unfortunately, the issues raised in the motions two years ago are still relevant. Since speeches here in Parliament are limited in time, it is a great deal that I can refrain from saying, Madam President. However, for those who want to know more about where we Moderates stand on human rights, I refer to our party and committee movements, which are referred to in the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Like many speakers before me, I am very pleased that there is a broad consensus on human rights and their values in the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. This is important, because it shows that Sweden holds human rights high. It is also important because there are several countries around the world looking up to Sweden and seeing Sweden as a banner for human rights. Therefore, a broad consensus is of great importance. Human rights state that all people, regardless of country, culture and context, are born free, of equal value and equal rights. The basic principle of human rights is that power must never be arbitrary and that individuals have the right and the opportunity to assert their rights. Human rights live in symbiosis with the principles of the rule of law. A functioning rule of law is a prerequisite for people to enjoy their rights. But the rule of law is not only a means but also an end in itself. When times are difficult, human rights are often vulnerable and are in a more difficult situation than usual. This is also evident in connection with covid-19. There are several examples of governments taking power from the elected parliaments without any visible intention of returning it. In covid-19's footsteps, there are also restrictions on human rights in many places. I am thinking not only of temporary measures, but also of, for example, freedom of the media and universal elections that are cancelled. Covid-19 also shows how prejudice against minorities comes to the surface. There are several of us who have heard, most recently yesterday on the news and on Swedish Radio, and been able to read in newspapers about how someone else has brought the infection with them. It is not covid-19 in relation to human rights that we are debating here today, but I mention covid-19 because that question illustrates how a crisis can affect the application of human rights. We live in a complex, interconnected world, a world in which the development of a single country affects the development of other countries. That is why the work of international organisations is important for human rights, Madam President. The UN was formed after the Second World War in order to support peace, democracy and human rights. The UN is an amazing body. Representatives of the world's countries meet, civil society participates, negotiations are conducted and agreements are concluded. But the UN needs to change. We Moderates are fully and firmly behind the UN Secretary-General António Guterres' reform agenda, which aims to adapt the UN to the new challenges of the world. Let me mention a few issues that need to be reviewed. It's about the decision-making process. Today, it is difficult to implement decisions that are not watered down and to no obligation. It is also about the appointment of presidencies of various UN agencies. I do not mention any specific country, but I am thinking of the country holding the Presidency of the UN Commission on Women – a country that did not respect women's rights and did not express any will or intention to do so. It is also troubling when whistleblowers are kept silent, relocated or, in the worst case, fired. And then there is the corruption, Madam President. The reform work undertaken by Mr Guterres is not only desirable; it is necessary. Democracy in the world is in decline. More people live in countries with authoritarian tendencies than in countries that are making democratic progress. In concrete terms, this means that it is more difficult for journalists, elected representatives and human rights defenders to work and more difficult for civil society to act. It also means that harassment, persecution and murder become more legitimate. This may have the consequence of halting the debate on society, the criticism and the desire to express the desire for change. That should definitely not be the case. I mention this because it is an important part of human rights. In an active, living democracy, there is a civil society. There are opportunities for education, dialogue and collaboration, and there is freedom of assembly and free media. It is a world where everyone – girls, women, men and LGBTI people – is respected and no one is outside. I would also like to raise the EU here, because I was talking about international cooperation. The foundations of the EU are precisely human rights and the principles of the rule of law. Although the majority of EU countries support the principles of the rule of law, there are countries that depart from them. It is important that the EU works actively to support human rights and does not tolerate it when it turns out that there is a departure from EU principles. What, then, can the EU do, beyond what I mentioned, to increase support for human rights and ensure that more people can make their voices heard? I am thinking here of the Eastern Partnership, which is a shining example of active work to support human rights. I am also thinking of the EU's means of sanctions and so on. Now my time is up, and I haven't even had time to say half of what I was thinking. As I said at the beginning, Madam President, it is not possible to say everything in eight minutes, even if it is possible to say a lot.
i-f6adaba589471443-410	Madam President, I would like Today we are facing a pandemic that is hitting health and the economy, but also freedom, democracy and human rights. The democratic decline we have had in the world over the last 14 years is visible also when we face the consequences of the pandemic. Yesterday we were able to see Reporters without borders' picture of freedom of expression and press in the world – how bad it is. They clearly show what the violations of Article 19 of the Declaration of Human Rights look like and how they roll out around the world with interventions specifically in the field of freedom of the press and of expression. It is a weapon for leaders to strengthen and retain their power, push back human rights and oppressed minorities, LGBTI people, women and those who do not think as the leader thinks. It is important that we see this. When we face the pandemic, we must also see what the threats to our freedom, human rights and democracy look like, in order to find a cure is not only about the cure for Corona but also against oppression, Madam President. We claim in Parliament and in our report that human rights are universal and mutually reinforcing. This is the case, in our view, although we have different political, ideological glasses on us and give slightly different interpretations in this House as well. But there is a global definition debate going on. We do not agree on what we mean when we talk about human rights. When we signed the Declaration of Human Rights and became a member of the UN, we believed that the way in which we interpret the Declaration was supported. Similarly, when we signed the European Convention, we thought that we had the same view of what we had developed in our part of the world. But we see here at home and out there that there is a huge fight about what it really means. We see how gross violations of human rights are taking place. We must be clear about that. We must not remain silent and believe that the victories have been won. Sometimes we've said we've been naive. We say that when we talk about security policy sometimes, but we must not be naive about democracy and human rights either. When China holds 1 million Uighurs in detention camps without the Security Council, the UN or we get through, a window and a door have been opened for others to follow. The multilateral world order, as we claim, is under great pressure. It is essentially a question of human rights. China, with its "democratic" dictatorship, is seeking more followers by all means. The diplomacy of health is also visible, not just debt diplomacy. We must see how others take back on the Chinese authoritarian leadership. Madam President, I would like We have a great deal of agreement in this report. We also have a consensus on our motion on the death penalty. However, we still have a specific opinion in that part. In this respect, I would really like to emphasise that a majority of the countries of the world have today written away the death penalty, because it is an irreversible and inhumane punishment. But it's today, and we don't know what it looks like tomorrow, so let's not be naive here either. We therefore think it is important that we pay attention and continue to critically examine this and do not believe that the victory has been won here either. When we see what is happening now, there is every reason to increase vigilance, including with regard to the management of the coronapndemine. Where does the world rise and say, "No, stop! When Duterte says to shoot to kill those who do not comply with the curfew? Borders are being moved. Last autumn there was a debate in the Russian Duma, where leading politicians thought it was time to reintroduce the death penalty. It didn't get heard then, but boundaries are tested. And boundaries have been tested by others, not entirely surprising by Viktor Orbán and Erdo an. I am not saying this to make the House gloomy, but to make the House aware that the victories have not been won. We see clearly how minorities are oppressed around the world, including in our Europe, and how it is trampled on human rights. It's an indication of something that can get much, much worse. There we must be open about the fact that our various hats can protect and be used as arguments for oppressing minorities and human rights for a seemingly good cause. Today the Corona is used; other days one chooses to use an ideology, a religion or other values that one believes can protect one's ambitions to usually assert one's own authoritarian rule, its own leadership and its own dictatorship. We see this clearly in history. Whether I visit South Africa or concentration camps in Poland, Auschwitz or others, I see the symbols for which you want to pinpoint to point out the other, the dangerous one. There are common features. Not for nothing are LGBT people designated and one religion or another identified, so let's be vigilant when we talk about human rights. Let's stand up for them! Let us also realise that women's rights are human rights, including the SRHR! With this, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal for a decision and refer to the special opinion.
i-f6adaba589471443-423	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report on human rights. I support all the committee movements of the Christian Democrats in the report. Madam President, I would like The right to life, freedom and equality and respect for human rights and freedoms are absent in many countries. Millions of fellow humans do not enjoy democratic rights such as freedom of expression, opinion, religious freedom, equality, etc. It is rights that are self-evident to us and that are the basis of freedom, democracy and the rule of law. Madam President, I would like The last decade has continued to be marked by civil war in a number of countries, where millions of people have been displaced from their areas and hundreds of thousands have been killed and injured in the Middle East and North Africa. In these civil wars, a number of nations are involved in military efforts and contribute to continued human suffering. These nations have their own geopolitical or economic interests or are fellow believers with their own interests in the conflict. We are seeing these developments in Syria, Iraq, Yemen and Libya, and the victims are paying a high price because the UN Security Council has become increasingly divided about its responsibility and mission to contribute to peace and increased security. The UN Security Council is becoming increasingly difficult to reach agreement and to stop ongoing armed conflicts and neglects the possibility of peace, freedom and respect for human rights and freedoms. The United States and NATO, which were able to act and deter some dictatorships from violence and abuse, have been given a weakened role and position under the leadership of President Donald Trump. The weakening of the UN Security Council and NATO has given greater scope to non-democratic countries such as China, Iran and North Korea and others to restrict democratic rights and pose a threat to peace, freedom and stability. Moreover, this instability has contributed to less respect for human rights and freedoms, for which ethnic minorities have paid a high price. Madam President, I would like All people are born free and equal with equal rights, and no one has the right to override human dignity. Power-full dictatorships, non-democratic regimes and terrorist organisations committing crimes against humanity and crimes against international law should be held to account. Democracy is in decline, and human dignity, which means that all people have equal, unique and inviolable value, is not respected in a number of countries. Democratic forces are opposed where nationalism and religious fanaticism have taken over, and millions of people have been driven out by force and hundreds of thousands murdered. Increasing respect for human dignity and living up to human rights requires a UN, a NATO and, not least, a Europe that is more active and strong and that pulls in the same direction and acts together and vigorously to counter these destructive forces. Military, political and economic efforts are needed to punish countries, organisations, authorities and individuals who contribute to increased intolerance, discrimination and persecution. No matter where in the world this happens, evil must be vigorously counteracted. Madam President, I would like Developments are worrying in several African countries, where Islamic terror groups systematically murder and expel Christian residents from homes. This escalates in Nigeria, Libya, Eritrea, Mali, Somalia and several other countries in Africa. It is a frightening development that must be stopped. Here the UN Security Council must intervene to prevent mass murder and misery and contribute to stability and sustainable development. Madam President, I would like The British Foreign Office produced a report last year stating that Christians are the most persecuted in the world. The report notes that the persecution of Christians approaches the definition of genocide in certain areas. According to the latest annual report of the Open Doors organization, Christians are the most persecuted in the world, and over 260 million are persecuted daily because of their Christian faith. In other words, millions of fellow human beings are harassed, persecuted and discriminated against, and their human rights are not respected. Madam President, I would like We see the same trend towards persecution, discrimination and intolerance in most countries in the Middle East and North Korea, China, Pakistan, India, Afghanistan and others. In these countries, respect for the equal value of all people is foreign. It is high time that the UN Security Council acted to protect Christians, who are particularly vulnerable in many countries, and put an end to systematic persecution and discrimination, which is evident in many countries and exists in all the institutions of society. International efforts are needed against regimes and authorities that fertilise hatred of Christians, Jews, Muslims and other ethnic groups. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Foreign Minister mentioned persecution of Christians in his speech during this year's foreign declaration. It is also gratifying that the Committee on Foreign Affairs writes in the report that religion is more politicised, that nationalism with religious elements is gaining ground on a broad front, that Christian minorities are in a vulnerable situation in many parts of the world and that the persecution of Christians must end. This statement by the committee is important, and Swedish foreign policy can make a difference through the EU and the UN and bilaterally. Madam President, I would like The EU has guidelines for promoting freedom of religion and belief in its external relations, and this is included in the Action Plan in the EU's strategic framework for human rights and democracy. Here the government can be more active towards the EU and push for within the EU and the UN, be a strong voice for the protection of freedom of religion and belief, and protect vulnerable people. Not least Christian groups need protection and the support of the outside world to ensure their existence in the Middle East and in some African countries. Madam President, I would like A UN observer should be appointed to list individuals, authorities and countries who persecute and commit abuses and violations against Christian groups. Sweden should work for the UN to develop an action plan to protect and safeguard the human rights of Christians and the equal and inviolable value of all people.
i-f6adaba589471443-438	Madam President, I would like Around the world many people now fear for life, health and the economy, all in the corona n s tracks. However, while many are forced to bury their close ones, governments are also taking the opportunity to bury democracy and the rule of law. In dealing with the Corona crisis, laws and exceptions are being pushed through that create powers that, in a normal state, would have been unthinkable. Rights are being violated, the rule of law is being reduced and governments are greatly increasing their power. This is a worrying development, to say the least, because without democracy, no human rights. When leaders gain more power, it is always people who pay the price, in many cases with their lives and their freedom. We've seen it before, and we're seeing it now. Madam President, I would like In Poland, for example, we see women's rights gradually declining, and in Hungary, developments are moving in the wrong direction, now under the Corona flag. In Europe, therefore, one of the EU's Member States is in the process of dismantling its democracy by 2020. This must not happen without the Union acting. We need to do more, and we need to be clearer. We want the EU to start an Article 7 procedure against Hungary, to strangle the contributions of the Union and to ensure that the Commission ensures the conditions for independent journalism in the country. Hungary's actions must never be accepted by the other Member States. Of course, it is not only in the European Union that things are happening. In Russia, during the Corona crisis, Putin has taken the opportunity to extend its own term of office. I'm sure he'll be sitting up to 2036. In China, people are imprisoned every day and taken to work camps, and the Swedish citizen Gui Minhai is still trapped by the Chinese state. Unfortunately, the list of repressive countries that lack or reduce their ambitions for democracy can be made long. Madam President, I would like A strong civil society is a prerequisite for a democracy worthy of the name. It is through the movements for peace, democracy and human rights that fair societies can be created. It is through these movements that every person's freedom can emerge. It is the same movement that is the greatest threat to any power holder with totalitarian ambitions. It is often the opportunities for civil society that are first strangled when democracy shrinks. The scope for action at different levels of society is limited, support is withdrawn and organisations are banned. Through repressive legislation, regimes put civil society at risk and restrict its ability to act. With counter-terrorism and national security as a pretext, democratic movements and political opposition are countered by aggravating funding opportunities and by threats and violence. Unfortunately, too often we receive bids for murdered democracy and climate activists. That is totally unacceptable, because where civil society dies, democracy dies there too. Madam President, I would like The rule-based world order is being challenged in more and more parts of the world, and at a time when we need to get together most. A global pandemic has made it clear: we can meet major challenges only if we work together. The UN and multilateral cooperation are an important foundation stone for building democracy, peace and justice in the world. Today, the United Nations and all its institutions face difficult challenges. The UN needs to develop and adapt to the challenges of the future and a new reality. Within the system, there needs to be more efficiency and regulatory simplification. And transparency in all aspects, as well as equality, needs to be increased on all fronts. It is not possible to solve the problems facing the world today with the solutions of the past. But it is only when we work together that we are strong enough to make real change. Madam President, I would like In a world where not everyone is free, no one is free. Sweden's feminist foreign policy puts women and girls first, and it is necessary. Women's rights are human rights. We all need to stand up for that and put it on the agenda. In today's Europe, we also see the spread of both anti-Semitism and Islamophobia. Guards are needed today in many places to protect synagogues and mosques from vandalism. Elsewhere, oppression of Christians increases, and other minorities are persecuted. LGBTQ people still live today under threat of death in many countries of the world. And when pride parades are attacked and banned, it is also everyone's freedom that becomes less. Hatred has no place in a decent society, and every democratic power in the world has an inescapable responsibility to always react and act when hatred shows its ugly face in whatever form it may be. Madam President, I would like The Corona epidemic has put a lot on its head. Now, together, we need to save lives, health and finances. However, the direct threats to democracy, which are always there but which we now also see in the wake of the pandemic, are not something that we can only react to when the curve has been flattened and the spread of the infection lost in strength. Then it may be too late. Our voice in the world is important – yesterday, today and tomorrow. I therefore support the proposal in the report.
i-f6adaba589471443-454	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Transport Committee's report 9 on bicycle issues. I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Left Party's reservation 13. Cycling is an excellent way to transport yourself. Besides walking, cycling is the most effective way to get around. There will be no emissions, it is extremely surface efficient and it creates no noise. Good health and exercise are included. That is why we in the Left Party want to increase cycling in Sweden significantly. We have a number of concrete proposals for how to achieve it. The first thing we should do is simply set a target for how much we want to increase cycling in Sweden. Our goal is that about 20 percent of the vanesing, i.e. trips to and from work or school, should be done by bicycle. If we are to achieve this, we must approximately double cycling compared to today's levels. If we are to be able to cycle more, we also need to invest for an extended and safe cycling. We need to expand the cycling infrastructure in Sweden. Here it is usually referred to – and this report also does – the national investment plan for infrastructure and that there is indeed SEK 1.5 billion for the development of bicycle infrastructure. But remember that this is a plan that covers a total of SEK 700 billion. Therefore, no one can say that bicycle policy has a particularly prominent role in the government's investment plan. We need more money to build real bike paths. Then you might have to do less of something else. Here we have in the Left Party a proposal: Build fewer motorways! This applies in particular to the motorways planned here in the Stockholm area, such as Tvärtändning Södertörn, which will cost at least SEK 11 billion. If you build fewer motorways, you get more money to expand sustainable infrastructure, such as bicycle infrastructure. It is also very regrettable that the national investment plan actually included named investment projects for new cycle routes which the government completely deleted. I am talking about Märstastråket and Täbystråket, two very important bike paths here in the Stockholm region that the government unfortunately deleted. Then it was also half a billion SEK less for extended bicycle infrastructure. We also need to remove obstacles that make cycling difficult and sometimes dangerous and hinder the development of bicycle infrastructure. I am thinking of our road law, which is a law designed to build roads for cars but which does not take into account the great interest that exists today in cycling. The Road Act states that a cycle path may only be built in connection with an existing road for cars. There are several examples of municipalities that have wanted to build separate bike paths but which must not because it is written in the Road Act that there should be a functional connection between cycling and the cars on the state road. We must change the wording of this law. We cannot have it in the way that we must not build bicycle paths separately from a road for cars. That is why the road law needs to be changed. It would also be very good if we could follow what the UN Road Safety Conference just a few weeks ago stated here in Stockholm at its major international meeting, namely that we should have a reduced base speed in our cities. Today, the speed is 50 kilometres per hour. If we can pull it down to maybe 40 kilometers an hour, we will have safer and better traffic in our cities. It also benefits increased cycling. We also need to make it easier, for example, to cycle towards one-way. There is a recent example from Stockholm where you have signposted so that cycling is allowed towards the single direction of the cars where it is perceived as safe and secure. Now this signage has unfortunately been stopped by the County Administrative Board, and recently also by the Swedish Transport Agency, so the City of Stockholm must not sign in this way even though the assessment – it has done this very carefully – is that it is a completely safe way to cycle. Cycling towards one-way on some streets in our cities would allow people to make their way on bicycles much faster – and actually safer, because they don't have to take detours into other roads and so on. We need to deal with this. We also need to ensure that the bicycle can be included in public transport. All of us who have travelled by train in Denmark, Germany, Switzerland, Austria and so on know that there is no problem whatsoever to roll on the bike on the train; there are always one or two wagons with large spaces where you can roll on the bike. So we should have it here in Sweden too. We need to give a concrete mission to all the operators who transport on our railways to be able to bring bicycles when transporting. This also applies to all public transport. We should make it easier to ride right at red. At some intersections, this would not be a problem at all. It is done in several countries, but we are not allowed to do so here in Sweden. The government has said that there should be an investigation into the possibility of allowing a right turn at red– I think it was just over two years ago. So far, we have not seen any concrete results from this. The government has to speed up that work. In some cities we have a big problem with the so-called electric scooters. The electric scooters, or electric scooters, have become a major accessibility problem not only for cyclists but also for pedestrians, and not least for disabled people. Last year there were eight companies in Stockholm that placed electric scooters everywhere in the city, completely unregulated. This is a phenomenon that needs to be regulated, and here I think our local politicians and officials can do a lot more. For example, it could be ensured that it becomes a licensed activity so that electric scooters can only be exhibited after the municipality has given permission. However, even at national level we need to regulate these vehicles. It is not reasonable for an electric scooter to be regulated in the same way as an ordinary bicycle, so that there is no age limit, so that children can drive them, so that they can even be driven on sidewalks if it is done at walking speed and so on. We need to get to grips with this. It must not be the same chaos with these electric scooters as it has been in Stockholm and several other cities during the summers.
i-f6adaba589471443-467	Madam President, I would like In these very strange times, the stay outdoors is balm for the soul, not least now that spring is beginning to come. In their free time, many go out into nature, but also on bicycle excursions. It can be a way of socializing when social distance is a must. Sweden offers many bike-friendly trails for those who are eager to go on a small round, whether it is a few kilometers or several miles long. The interest in cycling has increased significantly in recent years, and cycling tourism has never been as great as it is now – based on normal circumstances, of course – and for international guests it is popular to experience the unique Swedish nature on two wheels. We hope that those tourists want to come back and bike in Sweden even after the crisis. The bike as a means of transport has a number of advantages. It has a positive impact on health, which is important because in today's modern society we often sit still very much. When people choose the bike in front of the car, greenhouse gas emissions and congestion are also reduced, so it is important to encourage and facilitate for more people to choose a bike. Unfortunately, the possibility of cycling is not as great in Sweden as in many other countries, and there is much more to be desired in this area. Anyone who has ever cycled in Copenhagen or Amsterdam knows that. The government has developed a national cycling strategy, which is good and bodes well for the increased cycling in the country. Unfortunately, a strategy is not enough; it must be translated into a concrete action plan and concrete measures designed in dialogue with regions, municipalities and, not least, the bicycle industry. There will be no more people who can choose the cycle if the strategy is not translated into concrete action. For more people to have the courage to use the bike, it must be safer to cycle. This requires increased efforts and regulatory changes that can simplify for more cycle paths and better accessibility. Even cyclists should be able to feel safe with passing vehicles keeping a safe distance. If the bike is to become an alternative to the car, it must be easier and safer to cycle. No one chooses a more complicated alternative for the sake of it, and it takes effort to improve cycling possibilities in Sweden. Coherent cycle paths and quick cycle routes must be given priority in the development of the bicycle infrastructure. Today, problems often arise about the construction, something that Jens Holm also raised in his speech. It is about the road law and that today it is limited to building a bicycle road in connection with an existing road. It would be much better if a bicycle path were given the status of its own road, in order to enable cycling routes to go where they are most suitable and not, as the law says today, only in connection with the road. Madam President, I would like In recent years, many private companies have emerged that offer the possibility to rent bicycles and electric scooters. This is fundamentally positive; it increases mobility and simplifies everyday life for many. The National Road and Transport Research Institute has presented a report that points to the potential of electric bicycles and electric vehicle pools in close proximity to the home to reduce the use of cars in cities, but requires more users and well-sized pools. However, this does not mean that the new forms of mobility have come without any challenges. In the case of electric scooters, accidents are often reported, not only where people fall off electric scooters but also because electric scooters are misparked and people stumble over them. It mainly affects our big cities but has also caused inconvenience in smaller municipalities around the country. Older people and persons with disabilities must have access to the urban space, and it is of the utmost importance that emergency workers can make their way where they need to. It is clear to us in the Moderates that it is not innovation that should be stopped, but the rules that should be adapted to create interaction in the urban environment. Road safety and increased mobility must be able to go hand in hand. In October 2019, the Swedish Transport Agency was tasked with investigating electric single-person vehicles and making relevant proposals for regulatory simplifications. We welcome this because the regulatory framework is often perceived as unclear, which in turn leads to a deterioration in road safety in our urban environments. Moderates are in favour of innovation and entrepreneurship, but this must not be at the expense of the freedom of other groups in society. Madam President, I would like I have previously mentioned the importance of regulatory simplifications in order to increase the attractiveness of cycling. Regulatory simplification is important, not least when it comes to how to drive a bicycle. It is about the possibility to turn right at red light, introduce all green for cycling at several intersections and allow cyclists to travel in both directions on one-way streets. Here, of course, the signage is clear so that all road users are well aware of what applies. The policy in the area of cycling must be matched with common sense that facilitates cyclists' everyday lives and allows more people to choose the bike. With this in mind, Madam President, I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 1.
i-f6adaba589471443-477	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Maria Stockhaus for a passionate speech on increased cycling in Sweden. That's where we're in complete agreement. I have two questions. One relates to the road law. I take it that even the Moderates believe that the law as it stands now is an obstacle to expanding the bicycle infrastructure in Sweden when it says that a cycle path can only be built in connection with an existing road for cars. I wonder if the Moderates intend to work for a change of road law. For example, it is possible to vote for the Left Party's reservation on this a little later this afternoon. My second question concerns cycling towards one-way. I think that Maria Stockhaus, as a stockholmer, is well aware that you can do so on a variety of streets here in Stockholm. There is a sign for this – the sign is called C1. It was set up with an additional board to make it clear that it is allowed to cycle towards one-way. The City of Stockholm has evaluated this carefully and concluded that it increases the accessibility of cyclists and that it has become safer – not more uncertain – for cyclists when they have done so. Now you must not sign in this way for the county administrative board, and not for the Swedish Transport Agency either. I wonder what the Moderates think about this. Do we also need to have a clarification of how our laws should be interpreted so that our municipalities can go forward and allow cycling towards one-way?
i-2xrqVDAnj8MLPqBcCskiJv	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the questions! I absolutely agree that the road law needs to be changed. I think it is really historic – developments have come up against the legislation we have in this area, not least when it comes to cycling. There is every reason to review the road law. Whether we then vote for the Left Party's reservation or not I leave it unsaid– we probably do not at this point in time. But we will definitely work for the road law to be changed so that it will be allowed to build bike paths where it fits best, not just in connection with road. Speaking of cycling towards one-way, we are in charge of the City of Stockholm, and it has been an important issue for the majority of Stockholm to open up to this possibility. The technicality of the signs must be solved. It goes without saying that we support changes in order to make it easier both for these signs to exist and for you to cycle towards one-way in Stockholm.
i-f6adaba589471443-486	Madam President, I would like I want to thank you for the answers. Even when it comes to cycling towards one-way, there is a reservation – reservation 13 – that the Moderates can vote for if they want to send a signal very clearly to the government that we really need to work for municipalities to be able to sign in such a way that cyclists can cycle towards one-way roads where the municipalities themselves think it is safe and good. I would also like to thank you for your answer on the road law. As the report says, Trafikverket has an assignment – one can at least interpret it that way – to review this, and in a few weeks' time the Trafikverket will issue a statement. Based on what I have heard a little between bowl and wall, I do not think it is this opinion from the Swedish Transport Administration that will change the road law as it looks now. I urge the Moderates to follow this issue closely. I hope that we can work together for a more modern road law, so that we can expand the cycling infrastructure much faster and better than is happening today.
i-f6adaba589471443-490	Madam President, I would like As the parliamentary situation stands today, it has happened on a number of occasions that we have found joint wordings together with the Left Party. If nothing happens when it comes to road law and getting a change there, there is every reason to think about how we should deal with this before this autumn's exercise so that we can send a clear signal from the Riksdag that we want to see a change. I'd be happy to join in and act in favour of that.
i-f6adaba589471443-491	Madam President, I would like We in the Swedish Democrats support all our reservations, but in order to save time at the vote, we only ask for the approval of reservation 12. Madam President, I would like Much has happened since the first cycle was constructed. The cycle has evolved from a very simple construction to a technically advanced high-performance vehicle. You can choose everything from the simple basic model to fast, ultra-light racing bikes – the range is large and the choice is many. In addition, electric bicycles are on the market, which has contributed to a boost in cycling. Cycling has a positive effect on health; there is no doubt about it. Increased cycling also reduces congestion in our urban areas, and this contributes to reduced greenhouse gas emissions. It is therefore important that more people are given the opportunity to choose the bike as a means of transport. In order to encourage increased cycling, we believe that coherent cycling routes and fast cycle routes should be given priority in the development of bicycle infrastructure. We believe that such an extension would seriously make the cycle an attractive alternative to the car in many of our cities. However, account must be taken of accessibility for car traffic and the road safety perspective must be taken into account. With risks and unsafe road environment, people choose other means of transport before the cycle. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the traffic environment is as good as possible and that cyclists are separated from other modes of transport as far as possible. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, there are accidents where cyclists are killed or badly injured. On average, 27 cyclists are killed per year, and the number of injured is 800. More than 50 of these are seriously injured. A serious injury almost always means that the individual receives permanent harm from the accident. In over half of the fatal cycle accidents, a car is involved. Seventy percent of the deaths occur in a urban area, and nine out of ten injuries occur among cyclists in a urban area. For society, these deaths and injuries mean great costs, but for family, friends and co-workers accidents and human losses cannot be counted in money – they are personal tragedies. Madam President, I would like Traffic rules play an important role in the interaction between different modes of transport, which is why it is also important that the regulatory framework is comprehensible. It should be easy to understand traffic rules, but when it comes to the rules for bicycle passages and cross-bike crossings, we see how the different rules unfortunately point to the opposite. In accordance with reservation 12, we want the regulatory framework to be reviewed and the rules harmonised so that they are equally obedient. For example, it may be appropriate for cyclists in both cases to leave the motorists' preference when they belong to the group of vulnerable road users. Regardless of which group to give priority, this must be aligned in order to increase safety and avoid misunderstandings – misunderstandings that can give a fatal or disabling outcome at worst. Madam President, I would like In my introduction, I referred to accident statistics. It found that 70 percent of the deaths and 90 percent of the injuries of cyclists occur in urban areas. These are tragic figures that clearly show that the traffic environment in our urban areas is the most difficult to solve from the point of view of damage. In urban areas there is often competition for the space between pedestrians, cyclists, buses and cars, and in some cities trams will also be accommodated on the streets. In order to reduce the number of accidents in urban areas, compliance must also be required, not least by cyclists. A stop sign really means stop. A red traffic light also means stopping. Lighting on the bike is extremely important in the dark or bad weather. All vehicle traffic shall be carried out on the right side unless otherwise stated, and helmet is a matter of course. High road safety and accessibility should apply to all modes of transport, we believe, Swedish democrats, and compromises in the design of the road environment are therefore necessary. New construction will of course build good cycle paths, but there will also be room for car traffic. Changing existing infrastructure planning, especially in cities with old urban planning, is not as easy. Here we believe that a great deal of attention must also be paid to car and bus traffic, so that we do not get crowded streets with long traffic queues. For most people in our country, it is still the car that constitutes freedom, and for even more people the car is an absolute necessity to make everyday life work. You pick up and leave children at daycare, drive to sports activities, commute to work or shop at the department store. This is ultimately a municipal issue, but with the urban environment agreements many municipalities want to make it difficult for motorists. We are critical of this on the part of the Swedish Democrats. Sanctuary and balance must prevail when planning for the development of the bicycle infrastructure. A key principle in all infrastructure planning must be flow. Just as important as a well-functioning infrastructure for cyclists, it is that other modes of transport also function well. When it comes to connecting cranes with cities, we are in favour of more resources being spent on creating bicycle connections and creating efficient and safe cycling paths. But cycle paths have been built along national roads, where virtually no or very few use them. We believe that it is a waste of resources because this money could have improved the traffic environment for other groups of cyclists, where the use rate for the infrastructure is higher. A well-functioning winter road maintenance is also a matter of course for safe cycling even during winter time. Madam President, I would like Finally, I will say a few words about an important but forgotten factor in reducing the number of people killed and injured in traffic. It's education. Cycling is an excellent everyday exercise for everyone, not least for children, but it must also be safe. Unfortunately, many children today learn to ride a bicycle at a late stage, or they do not learn to ride a bike at all. However, it is positive that in some municipalities road safety projects are ongoing and that children and adults should learn how to cycle. Promoting children's cycling and educating children in road safety enhances children's health. Early learning of traffic rules and cycling makes people more aware of the dangers of traffic, which should lead to fewer accidents. Road safety is based on knowledge, respect and respect for traffic rules. Together we can create a safer traffic environment for everyone
i-f6adaba589471443-515	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Thomas Morell for his speech. Today, Trafikanalys came with completely updated statistics on road deaths in Sweden. We are pleased to note that fewer people died in traffic in 2019 compared to 2018. Fewer bicycle users have died: 17 road users in 2019 compared to 23 road users in 2018. Even among pedestrians, motorcyclists and mopedists, fewer people have lost their lives in traffic, according to the latest statistics that came today. It's really worth welcoming. I have a direct question about reservation 12, which Thomas Morell spoke about. It's about who's gonna turn away from who in traffic. In the Swedish Democrats' reservation, they propose a change of law that means that cyclists should always leave motorists preference at intersections. According to the principle, this is the first thing to do – that motorists should always take precedence. What would it be like, Thomas Morell, if we turned it around so that the biggest do not go first and that those who are the biggest and the heaviest in traffic have to give priority to pedestrians and cyclists? Then the motorist will have to give priority to cyclists and others.
i-LTmkGWW43ksfbxXnCdGu4k	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the questions, Jens Holm! I mentioned average figures in my speech and what Traffic Analysis has seen for a number of years. 2019 has been fantastic for road safety; we can agree on that. However, this must not be allowed to reduce the number of people killed and injured in traffic. Cyclists are a group of road users who are very vulnerable in the traffic environment because they are unprotected. There are often high speeds involved. When we have looked at this, we have said that we should review the regulations for who should give priority to whom. But it must be equally obedient so that there is no confusion either for the cyclist or for the motorist. The regulatory framework should be clear. It should give a clear direction to what applies. Still, if you come on a bicycle for maybe 25 to 30 kilometers per hour into the road environment and hit a car driving in 50, the damage will be extensive, and at worst, it may be a fatal accident. In order to minimise all such instances where there is a failure in communication between cyclists and motorists, we want to review the regulatory framework, and we want it to be equally obedient. There should be no misunderstanding. The only communication you have as a road user in the road environment is eye contact with other road users. If we miss here, the accident is a fact.
i-f6adaba589471443-523	Mr President, I would like to Now, of course, my question was not whether we should have a clear regulatory framework, because I think we should have that too. It was about the reservation of the Swedish Democrats, where you say that cyclists should always give priority to motorists, both on bicycle passages and on bike crossings. My question was that one can have clear regulation but turn it around so that it is always the motorist who should give priority to the cyclist according to the principle most should not go first.
i-f6adaba589471443-525	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the question again, Jens Holm! You have to look at the regulations. We see today that where we have bicycle passages or cross-bikes, there are differences in the understanding of what applies in the regulations. It creates accidents. Of course we can say that you always let the cyclist take precedence. But then it depends a little on what the traffic environment looks like. What are the chances that the motorist actually sees the cyclist, who might come at high speed out on the road? It is in such situations that an accident is created that is completely unnecessary. Then it's better for the unprotected traffic guard to stop before he goes out. If there is a car that may weigh 1,400 to 1,500 kg – and it does not have to go in 50 but maybe in 30 – the effect is that there will be severe damage. It is better to freeze the situation in such a situation so that the cyclist stops and looks ahead before crossing the road. It does not matter if I have protection in the legislation that I have priority; if there is a collision, it will still be me who gets the damage if I come on a bicycle. Then it is better to design the traffic environment in such a way that such situations do not arise. We are also open to ensuring that it is always the motorist who should leave priority, but at this point we have said: No, it is better that the cyclist stops before he goes out into the road environment.
i-5X6QfUow9hqVVTxK5au5Zn	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Center Party's reservation No 4. I will now give a speech on a report in which I am not really home, but I have a good basis to stick to. The fact that more people choose to cycle is good for both the environment and public health. It also reduces congestion in traffic, especially in large cities. One problem for many cyclists, however, is that there is no coherent planning of cycling routes and that there are many unimagined traffic environments that do not promote cycling. For example, the Center Party considers that it is not reasonable that the standard of the cycle path should be reduced at certain municipal borders. The Center Party sees the need to increase the accessibility of bicycles as relatively high. This can be achieved by building more local and regional cycle paths and allowing them to take up more space and resources in national infrastructure planning. We think that cycling should be seen in a broader perspective. In addition to reviewing the need for physical action, we need to ensure that regulatory simplifications and legislative changes make it possible to cycle across the country. In addition, both bicycles and pedestrians must be given a safer place in traffic planning with more cycling streets, safer crossings and parking spaces along the streets that are transformed into bicycle fields. We are convinced that cycling can increase if we have only good cycling trails, better winter maintenance of bike paths and better interchange points between bike and public transport. Mr President, I would like to Much of the decisions relating to bicycle traffic are taken locally and regionally. The Center Party thinks that this is a good thing, but that at the national level we need to facilitate regional and municipal cooperation and simpler rules for, for example, bicycle parking. We do not stop cycling just because a cycle path ends at a municipal or regional border. From the perspective that we will get more people to choose to cycle both for work and in their leisure time and vacation, it is important that the bike paths that are being built are also interlinked across municipal and regional boundaries. This is an easy way to increase the availability of cycle paths. Mr President, I would like to Recently there have been discussions here in Stockholm about what rules should apply to cyclists, including when it comes to cycling towards one-way. It is important to clarify what applies. The Center Party's position is that it should be as simple as possible for people to be able to use their bike in everyday life. Therefore, the government should, as soon as possible, set up an investigation that will produce proposals for regulatory simplifications for increased cycling throughout the country. Mr President, I would like to For the Center Party, it is important to increase funding for bicycle infrastructure, and we want to look at the possibility of allocating more funding in national infrastructure plans to build cycle paths and also have a clear ambition for more cycle paths to be built across the country, not least in rural areas and in smaller urban and urban areas. We are good at cycling in Sweden but can of course get better. The cycling organisations around Sweden have knowledge of how the development looks both in Sweden and in Europe. They can increase our knowledge in parliament and government so that we can make the cycle more accessible to everyone, regardless of age and geography.
i-f6adaba589471443-539	Mr President, I would like to Cycling has great development potential with good environmental, climate and health effects. Therefore, cycling needs to be promoted, not least among children and young people. In order to increase interest and promote cycling, we believe that efforts are needed to disseminate information within schools and in different languages through non-profit organisations. If we are to get more people to cycle to and from work and during leisure time, active work is needed to make cycling even more popular. Cycling plays an important role in society, and it is positive that more people see the cycle as a useful means of transport as it has good effects on both public health and the environment and reduces congestion in cities. But more strategic and preventive work is needed to reduce the number of bicycle accidents and increase the safety of cyclists in traffic. The goal of all road safety work is that no one should die or be injured in traffic. We note that there is still much work to be done to achieve this objective and that cyclists are, unfortunately, an accident-prone group of road users. Against this background, we believe that preventive work to reduce the number of accidents should be developed. That is why, among other things, we set aside an additional 200 million in our budget for improving the traffic environment for cyclists. Mr President, I would like to Despite the fact that on an increasing number of roads there are well-functioning cycle paths, this is still lacking in many places. This means that cyclists still have to share lanes with motorists, resulting in a dangerous environment for cyclists, not least in connection with overtaking. We believe that road safety must be improved in this context. We can see that there is currently no regulation of specific distances when crossing cyclists. I'm on 3rd of chapter. Paragraph 33 of the Traffic Regulation only provides that the driver who is driving over must leave a safe lateral distance between his vehicle and the vehicle being re-run. However, there is no specified measure of what is considered a safe distance. This means that today it is up to the driver to make a re-run to determine which distance is appropriate. We believe that the current regime creates unnecessary risks for cyclists. That is why we believe that legislation is needed on a safety distance of 1.5 metres when crossing cyclists. Consideration should also be given to changing the law so that cyclists have the right to turn right even at red light, which will make it easier for cyclists while at the same time not creating any major risks for other road users. Mr President, I would like to It is important that we find a good way to embrace new technologies while safeguarding road safety. In this report we are dealing with several issues relating to electric scooters. From our side, we believe that new technological solutions that increase mobility in society are positive, but must be regulated in such a way that the new technology does not create problems for other road users. It is also positive to see how a number of municipalities work actively with issues related to electric scooters and bicycles. New cycle routes where walking and other traffic are separated from cyclists are emerging, increasing mobility while improving safety. Mr President, I would like to In addition to the growth of the bike as a means of transport in our cities, a vibrant cycle life has emerged in our leisure time, where various sports clubs together with the municipalities build up different forms of arenas for young people as well as natural trails for those who want to challenge themselves by cycling in tougher terrain. All of this is positive, as it promotes community and a living cycle culture. Mr President, I would like to We support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 10.
i-f6adaba589471443-549	Mr President, I would like to Liberals support all our reservations, but I would like to endorse reservation 6 on improving the infrastructure for increased cycling. Mr President, I would like to Many of the contributions we have heard this spring have started with the fact that the subject has been linked to the ongoing Corona crisis. What strikes me when it comes to cycling is that we haven't seen many articles about the great benefits of bicycles, electric bicycles and electric scooters and what they mean for commuting to work and avoiding risk of infection. You are out all the time instead of in a limited space, you can keep physical distance to people around you and you don't have to touch surfaces. In addition, you can enjoy the beautiful spring sun. Mr President, I would like to Precisely infectious was probably not on the health map presented by Trafikanalys in its 2018 report, where it was shown that increased cycling can contribute to increased public health. Reduced infection risk can now be added to that list. Other important societal objectives mentioned in the report were environment, accessibility and employment. All this could be improved by increasing cycling. The many advantages of people cycling make the Liberals want to make it easier for cyclists. A very important condition for easy cycling is that there are continuous safe paths and that they are maintained continuously so that there are no pits in the asphalt and so on. There are too many unimagined traffic environments that make it difficult for the cyclist in the complex infrastructure of our cities and towns, but the lack of common planning has also led to a radical deterioration in the standard of a cycle path when crossing a municipal border. That's not reasonable, we think. We want to see more efforts on coherent regional bike paths to make it easier to cycle longer distances. Liberals also want to increase the possibility of taking the bike on the pendulum. By combining public transport and cycling, more people can leave the car standing and thereby make a contribution to the environment and reduce congestion on the roads. Here is also the electric scooter interesting. It takes less space on the train and then takes you smoothly the last piece to work. Liberals are in favour of the niche of electric scooters in mobility, but a regulatory framework needs to be investigated to avoid the negative effects that some cities have experienced. Mr President, I would like to Cyclists live dangerously on our roads because they are so unprotected. It is a problem that we share with all the countries of the European Union. I am therefore pleased with the EU regulation that came into force on 1 January 2020 and that will apply on 6 July 2022, that is, in just over two years' time. According to the Regulation, passenger cars and light vans must have emergency braking systems that should also be able to detect pedestrians and cyclists in front of the vehicle. Similar systems should be available on buses and trucks. My hope is that these new systems, together with the infrastructure measures that I have mentioned before, will increase road safety for cyclists. According to information from the bicycle industry, 250 000 electric bicycles were sold in 2016 – 2019. They currently account for around 20 per cent of the Swedish bicycle market. The electric bikes allow more people to commute longer distances to work and leave the car standing. However, the higher speed places new demands on the cyclist, the environment one and the infrastructure. It is therefore important that research into different aspects of cycling receives increased support, so that now that interest in cycling is increasing, we can understand how cycling can be facilitated and how we can avoid an increasing number of injuries to cyclists in the future. The knowledge-raising work of the cycling centre should also continue to be supported in order to ensure continuity of work. New technologies that increase interest in cycling are positive. Let's take advantage of those opportunities. With these words, I support our reservation No 6.
i-f6adaba589471443-560	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for all reservations to be rejected and for the committee's proposals to be approved in the report. Initially, I note that it feels special to stand here in the speaker's chair while we are in the middle of fighting covid-19. In the midst of the Corona crisis, spring has come for real. In large parts of the country, more and more people are seeking out into nature, and to help stop the spread of the disease they choose other active ways of moving and transporting themselves than before. Since February, for example, I have chosen to ride my own bike to Parliament instead of travelling collectively. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats want more people to choose to use the bike as a means of transport. It's good, it makes you healthy and it's healthy. No matter how old you are or whether you live in a city or in the country, the possibilities of getting around on a bicycle will be improved. You should be able to transport parts of or the whole distance even after the Corona crisis. I am therefore pleased that the government has a clear ambition in this area. The Social Democratic-led government has taken a series of measures to increase cycling and its role in social development. In particular, the national cycle strategy, which was developed during the last parliamentary term, has played a major role in this work. It also states that cycling will increase and contribute to increased road safety. This is an important starting point for our work. But in order to achieve that goal, we need to be helped to do it even better. I would like to mention in particular the role of the regions and municipalities in promoting increased and safe cycling. For example, the Swedish Cycling Cities Association brings together a number of municipalities in our country that are at the forefront in promoting cycling and strengthening the infrastructure needed. They share knowledge and cooperate, just as we must. We all need to help each other. All parties at different levels and in different parts of society must assume their responsibilities in order for the cycle to have the place in society as highlighted in the cycling strategy. I would therefore like to express my great thanks to the various bicycle organisations and other idea-based organisations that work daily in various ways to promote increased and safe cycling. It's an important job they're doing. The national cycle strategy identifies a number of areas that are solid as the government's starting point. I would like to go into them a little bit and how the government works with them here and now and in the future, Mr President. The first area is to highlight the role of cycling in social planning. A holistic approach is needed to contribute at different levels to a broader view of infrastructure planning in our urban and urban areas and to enable more people to travel by bicycle to and from work and leisure activities. The second area is an increased focus on groups of cyclists. Children are a particularly important target group in promoting increased and safe cycling. In this area, however, the government is also clear that further work should focus on developing a current picture of existing tourist and recreational routes, on increasing knowledge of the characteristics of successful cycling routes and on developing proposals on how to develop the area. The third area is the promotion of a more functional and user-friendly infrastructure. Here, too, we would like to examine the possibility of allowing municipalities to set up so-called bicycle streets by means of an amendment to the Transport Regulation. The question is whether, under certain conditions, it is possible to allow exceptions to the rules on stopping like in the case of a red signal when, for example, the vehicle makes a right turn. This could apply to all types of vehicle. We generally want cycling to be made smoother, safer and more attractive. To achieve this, new innovative solutions such as new coatings, more adapted bicycle parking areas and more are needed. I would also like to mention the issue of cycling in one-way streets. The Minister for Infrastructure has clearly stated that it is already possible to take measures to cycle in both directions, including one-way traffic. He has also made it clear that if it turns out to be a concern and changes are needed, he is prepared to move on with it. It's an important message. I would also like to emphasise the importance of the so-called urban environment agreements, which were launched in 2015. They aim to highlight sustainable urban environments by, among other things, providing support to municipalities and regions for urban measures leading to an increase in the proportion of passenger transport by public transport or cycling. Today, many municipalities have used these important funds for bicycle infrastructure investments. The fourth area is about promoting safe cycling. A range of measures are important to promote safe cycling, such as the use of helmets, maintenance and operation of cycle paths and safe vehicles. That is why it is good and important that the national plan includes investments in road safety-enhancing measures such as walking and cycling passages and gates. The aim is to take action where the potential for increased and safe cycling is greatest. This primarily involves investments within or between some 40 major urban areas that create coherent safe paths, mainly for commuting to work and studies. It is also proposed to improve the maintenance of cycling routes along national and regional road networks, which are frequently used all year round. Another important measure concerns speed as cyclists are so-called vulnerable road users. Therefore, it is welcome that the government has commissioned Traffic Analysis to review the possibility of reduced base speed in urban areas. Last spring, the government also hosted a major international UN conference on road safety. The Stockholm Declaration then agreed to limit the speed to 30 kilometres per hour in areas where there is a high risk of death and serious injuries in traffic. From the Swedish side, therefore, an important international work is being carried out. The fifth area is the development of statistics and research. In this respect, I would particularly like to stress the importance of not only contributing to increased research in the field of bicycles, but also enabling research to be applied in practice. The Social Democratic-led government contributed during the last parliamentary term to a national cycling centre at VTI in Linköping. It is an important resource to strengthen research but also to contribute to increased application in practice and follow-up of measures taken and current situational descriptions. Better winter road entertainment is one such example where you have gone ahead by showing the possibilities of garbage salting. Mr President, I would like to I would also like briefly to say something about the fantastic and rapid development of what we sometimes call electric scooters. I am pleased that the Government has commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency to describe the regulations that apply and investigate the need for simplified rules for electric single-person vehicles, including electric scooters and electric bicycles. We Social Democrats are clear about the need to put road safety first and to have order and to know which rules apply. But we also see that we can enable the development of new technologies and innovation in the field of transport. Together with municipalities and industry, I am convinced that this will lead to better mobility in our cities. In order for Sweden to truly become the first fossil-free welfare country and achieve a green sustainable transition in the transport sector, the cycle is an important key, but together we must ensure that cycling becomes a possible travel option in more parts of the country, both in urban and rural areas. As a social democrat, I want to see an equal and sustainable society. This means that the whole of society must be able to take part in the transition. As I said, I support the proposal in the report.
i-f6adaba589471443-583	Mr President, I would like to I have a few questions for the Social Democrats and Teres Lindberg. Teres Lindberg outlined the important objectives of the Government's cycling strategy. Among other things, she talked about lifting the role of the cycle in infrastructure planning. I think it is one of the core points if we want more cycling in the future, if we want safer cycling and if we want a more robust network of bicycle infrastructure overall. As several of us here have noted, the road law is not really up-to-date with the investments we need to make in terms of bicycle infrastructure. It presupposes that there is a functional link between the cycle path and the road. Do the Social Democrats want to change the road law so that you can build bike paths whether there is a state road in place or not? If so, what initiatives have the Social Democrats taken to this end? Teres Lindberg also said that the Social Democrats want cycling to increase. I think all parties can sign it. It would be nice if they also had a goal for how much cycling should increase, otherwise it will easily be just a lip confession and something you say but that cannot be followed up later. Do the Social Democrats have a goal for how much cycling in Sweden will increase?
i-f6adaba589471443-587	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the questions, Jens Holm! I'm not quite sure I understand your question about the road law. Of course, we need to make it possible for national road networks to have bicycle routes. At the same time, however, there must be a great deal of cooperation with the municipalities. Even if we were to spend resources building a government cycle path along each state road, I am doubtful that this in itself would increase cycling. Rather, we need good cycling routes that allow people to cycle in a good and safe way. Then perhaps the municipal and local roads are more important. Putting resources on bicycle paths that no one will use is not an accessible way. We have no stated target for how much of the travel we want to be done by bicycle. I also do not really think that this is a relevant objective. Of course, it varies over time. In the winter months, many may choose not to cycle because it is cold, wet or damp. It all depends on where in the country you live. On the other hand, I would like to see politics providing good conditions for people to choose a bicycle but perhaps also during certain periods of the year to go. When people walk or cycle, it's good for the whole community. It is health-building and gives us healthy citizens. In the long term and in the long term, it saves the common expenditure we have on health. I do not think, as I said, that a single target for how many people are going to use a bicycle will solve the problem.
i-f6adaba589471443-591	Mr President, I would like to I think it is very important that we can have a change in the road law. Many parties share my picture. The report we are currently discussing points out that building a cycle path requires a functional link between the cycle path and the road, otherwise a separate cycle path between two municipalities cannot be built, for example. Cycling has become increasingly popular, and then it becomes a bit old-fashioned to think that the development of bicycle infrastructure is just about something that is built within a municipality or city. I think we all agree that real bike paths are needed. They do not necessarily have to walk along a road, but you can find other routes. A change in the road law is needed for this. I think that the Social Democrats should look more closely at this issue. It is they who sit in the government and have the question in their hands. They can change this. There is a lot of pressure out in Sweden for us to get an updated road law. I noted that Teres Lindberg spoke in his speech about the possibility of turning right at stop light even if the stop signal is red. She said there's something under investigation. This has been discussed for a very long time. We are constantly told that it is being investigated or prepared. I would therefore like to ask Teres Lindberg when the investigation into turning right at red light is completed.
i-f6adaba589471443-595	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again, Jens Holm, for important questions! I am not entirely sure that an update of the road law is needed. But of course I bring with me the question of regional bike paths. I also believe that regional cycling routes are an absolute prerequisite for more people to choose to commute. But it is primarily about cooperation between regions and municipalities and sometimes also the state. In essence, however, this lies with regional infrastructure planning and not with the state. Unfortunately, I am not fully informed about when we see a proposal on the right turn. It is very important that we look at this. It must always be remembered that when it comes to changes in traffic rules and that the reason why the law looks as it does today is primarily related to road safety. It has not really been primarily based on a bicycle. All of us who bikes know that this would make things easier. I think a lot of people with me are sometimes guilty of an easier crime when you flout because you see that you do not pose a traffic hazard. However, it becomes problematic when you mix different rules for different modes of transport, if that is what needs to be done. We need to have clear rules so that road users know what applies and so that there is no confusion in traffic. For us, it is important that road safety always goes first. That is also what is problematic about investigations and proposals such as this. But I hope that we will be able to come up with a good proposal that can also accommodate cyclists' opportunities for better accessibility.
i-f6adaba589471443-600	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt that cycling has huge benefits both for the individual and for society. Cycling reduces emissions of carbon dioxide and harmful particles. At the same time, it is an active mode of transport. The biker easily reaches up to everyone's daily need for at least 30 minutes of physical activity. This is something that, in the long term, is very useful in reducing the burden on health care and can help us to get older. On average 3 – 14 months or 90 – 420 days in extended service life, those who exchange the car for the bike can get according to the project Pasta, Physical Activity through Sustainable Transport Approaches. Cycling is also economical. It is a relatively cheap vehicle, and the infrastructure is not very expensive, especially in comparison with the infrastructure that cars need. An average day cycle averaged about 800 000 people about seven kilometres were divided into 2.2 trips, according to the national cycle book for 2018, which was published in June 2019. Let's assume it's about the same level. However, how many bikes each day vary depending on the season, weather and wind etc. The knowledge about who bikes and why they need to get better. Here the National Centre for Research and Education on Cycling plays a very important role. We continue to see a strong need for research in this area to improve our knowledge. Mr President, I would like to However, we need to increase the number of bicycles, for the sake of both climate and public health. That's why the question is how we get more people to ride more bikes. There is a great potential to increase cycling. About half of all car journeys are less than five kilometers [5 km], a route that most adults with simplicity can cycle. With an electric bike, it is also easy for most people to cycle considerably longer distances than that. Even for longer journeys, the bike can often be part of the journey to reach, for example, a bus stop or a train station. The organisation Svensk Cycling, which brings together several of Sweden's cycling organisations, has formulated a political manifesto with proposals under four different headings: resources, surface area, accessibility and road safety. I would say that it is a very accurate way of describing what is needed to increase cycling and make it more attractive. However, achieving something in these areas would require a national target for increased cycling. In 2017, the Government presented a national cycling strategy for increased and safe cycling, and the January agreement states that the share of bicycles should increase. Nevertheless, there is not yet a politically decided goal that sets the direction for how much cycle traffic will increase, something that we from the Green Party are clear that we want to see. There are, of course, objectives. For example, within the environmental objective system, there is a milestone that focuses on the sustainable modes of transport: a proportion of passenger transport by public transport, bicycle and walk in Sweden should be at least 25 per cent by 2025, expressed in passenger kilometres, in the direction of doubling the proportion of public transport, cycling and public transport in the long term. However, this objective does not distinguish between the modes of transport, bicycle and public transport and cannot therefore be considered to have a particularly guiding effect on transport policy. In order to focus measures and resources on increasing cycling traffic as described in the national cycling strategy, concrete national targets are needed for increasing cycling traffic. A clear national target, I mean, would allow for increased investments in bicycle infrastructure both in the national infrastructure plan and in the regional plans. It would also provide clear guidance to the Finnish Transport Administration. In 2018, SEK 587 million of state funds were invested in bicycle routes, divided into 67 million in national planes and 520 million in regional planes. Thanks to the urban environment agreements that the Environmental Party has been driving, the Swedish Transport Administration also granted aid for bicycle measures for about SEK 100 million. In the national plan, there is a budget of 1 billion per year in so-called urban contract money that can be applied for by municipalities for co-financing of sustainable transport measures, such as bicycle and public transport. In view of the forthcoming work on a new national plan, it is important to ensure that sufficient funds are allocated for cycling. Although most cycle paths are municipal, it is important that there are cycle paths that connect places in a gent and coherent way. The Green Party wants to see a national core network of cycle paths. We also want to increase the conditions for cycling in rural areas, which we believe can have a major positive effect on cycling tourism. If you want one thing, you'll benefit the other. Mr President, I would like to As things stand today, the number of cycling routes varies between regions and municipalities. Skåne, the region with the most cycle path, has 396 mil divided into 400 mil government cycle path and 341 mil in the municipal road network. The remaining 140 km is located in a separate road network. Stockholm and Västra Götaland also have over 300 km of cycle path. But then it is a pretty big jump down to 127 mil in Östergötland and 114 mil in Jönköping. There is simply a need for more cycle paths. In order to improve accessibility, the question of ground access also needs to be resolved, so that it will be easier for the Finnish Transport Administration to plan and build cycle paths with a rational route. There is a need for a revision of the road law, as has been said here before. Similarly, cycling availability in connection with the re-development and extension of so-called two-plus-one routes needs to be ensured. The possibility of state co-financing of so-called Stage 1 and 2 measures in accordance with the four-step principle also needs to be strengthened. In the urban environment, the question of the possibility for cyclists to cycle in both directions on streets that are one-way traffic needs to be ensured. The possibility exists today in many municipalities, but it should also be obvious that the municipalities and cities can apply the signage that explains most clearly and pedagogically to cyclists as well as motorists what applies on the street. Therefore, the one-way sign with the blue arrow should be combined with an add-on board: Municipalities also need to be given the opportunity to set up so-called bicycle streets, where the cycle takes precedence and sets the norm for speed. Here we in the Green Party are not afraid to emphasise that if cycling is a real priority, resources and space need to be taken from car traffic. Many parties insist that traffic laws should not be pitted against each other. However, we all know that neither the financial resources nor the physical surface of our cities are unlimited. If we increase the allocation to one type of traffic, it will have consequences for the other. It is also a necessary change in which we need to reduce the negative climate impact of road traffic, as well as the impact on air quality and health. We also think it is important that children's cycling should be stimulated. It should be self-evident that school children have better opportunities to cycle to school and are taught how to cycle safely. In order to provide a safer traffic environment both for cycling children and for other vulnerable road users, the speed in urban areas should be reduced. Mr President, I would like to A stronger national cycle policy is needed. Here's the Green Party driving. There are many efforts that would have to be made. We are working both within the government and towards the government's cooperation parties in order for this to become a reality. I support the proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-f6adaba589471443-617	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, TU11, which deals with general exercise. These are road and vehicle issues. In total there are 134 requests for a range of vehicle and road-related substances, such as a fossil-free vehicle fleet, fossil-free refuelling and charging infrastructure, individual roads, self-driving vehicles, motor hobby and historic vehicles, and long and heavy vehicles. We Social Democrats have three reservations in the report. I am, of course, behind all of them, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 35. It is about a committee initiative that has also been highlighted in the committee's report. The committee initiative deals with timber storage on public roads. The background to the committee initiative is that on 1 January this year the Swedish Transport Administration started to charge a fee for applications for a wood warehouse on a public road. We think it is a fairly important issue. The reason why we do not support the initiative is that the initiative itself is based on a misunderstanding that each timber warehouse should be charged and that you should apply to do so. In turn, the Finnish Transport Agency has announced that it intends to keep the general permits as they are today and that it has the ambition to respond to the forest industry's requests for faster and smoother management. We welcome that, of course. We also welcome the fact that the government is considering possible local exemptions from fees at, for example, granbarksborrea n grapple. In this case, however, we are not prepared to depart from the general principle that state authorities, regions and municipalities finance the exercise of public authority through fees. That is why we cannot support the proposal for a committee initiative. Mr President, I would like to Transport accounts for about one third of emissions. The long-term goal for the climate is for Sweden to have no net greenhouse gas emissions by 2045. An important milestone is that greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport should have decreased by 70% by 2030, starting from 2010. Half the time has now passed for the first milestone of 70%, and much remains to be done to make this possible. The Government's climate strategy shows, among other things, an action plan for fossil-free transport and electrification with a series of measures aimed at switching to more efficient vehicles and fossil-free fuels. The government also submitted the first climate action plan in December. It presents both planned and agreed measures that contribute to achieving the national and global climate targets. The Climate Policy Council presented its report for 2020 just a few weeks ago. This means that measures taken are not sufficient to achieve the net zero emissions target of 2045. The Expert Group on Studies in Public Economy also presented a report called Climate Change Goals in error this summer? In practice, it condemns a united parliament's target of net zero emissions to 2045. It says that we will not make it unless we carry out a substantial increase in the price of petrol and diesel. This type of follow-up is very important for the policy and perhaps especially for those of us who work in the Transport Committee. They make us realise that a clear target is not enough, and in this case it is not enough. We simply need to work more with active policies. We need to work more with ongoing follow-up and ensure that the instruments are developed. We also need to continue to ensure that our country works hard with innovation, research and development. Politics must provide the conditions for this, otherwise we will not achieve the objectives. There is also a need for legislation that goes hand in hand with development. One example of this is the government's investigation into the phasing-out of fossil fuels and the ban on the sale of new petrol and diesel cars. Mr President, I would like to In parallel with the efforts that policy and business can make, changes in behaviour are also needed. We can take the current corona outbreak as a very clear example. It has very quickly changed people's travel patterns. Passenger traffic has almost collapsed. Public transport in any case here in Stockholm has been very sparse and with few travellers. Road traffic has decreased by about 30%. Those who sat in a car or used another vehicle in the capital can see that a 30% reduction in car traffic has significantly increased accessibility. In the short term, we will be able to see positive effects on the climate. But we must be very vigilant about the aftermath that comes when we reopen society. We must ensure that people feel safe in public transport. At the moment, of course, we are making the wisest effort to help ensure that public transport congestion does not increase, so that those who need to use it there because they do not have any other opportunities to get to work in health care can do so too. But in the long term, we need to be clear that travelling together is smart. Otherwise, we will never meet the climate challenges. Digitalisation also opens the way for future transport and can contribute to changes in behaviour. In a not too unrealistic future, we will be able to see self-driving cars. Maybe the means of transport is outside the door when you want it. The vehicle then drives you where you want without having to park it, and it at a reasonable cost. Such a development I think can contribute to a completely new way of moving and to a completely different view from that of many today on their own car. First of all, this development will take place in the cities but eventually throughout the country. I am pleased that the committee has, together, high ambitions for self-driving cars. But I would also like to point out that we Social Democrats have a reservation in the committee's report on self-driving vehicles. We believe that important work is going on here both from the Ministry of Infrastructure and from the Swedish authorities. However, we do not think that Parliament should dictate large-scale experiments in a real environment is serious. I cannot stress enough that the introduction of self-driving vehicles must under no circumstances take place in a way that jeopardises people's safety in traffic. Stressing an introduction can have disastrous consequences. Madam President, I would like The future also requires a functioning infrastructure, electricity along our roads, charging stations and refuelling stations for fuels such as biogas and hydrogen. It is infrastructure for fossil-free alternatives to work and for heavy vehicles to be transported. Swedish companies are often an example. Only yesterday we heard about Volvo's billion-dollar investment to develop, produce and commercialise fuel cell systems for heavy vehicles, among other things. Heavy duty vehicles are good for industry and for the climate. It is also important to make transport of 74 tonnes possible. In the report, the committee also chooses to announce that the Finnish Transport Administration will take over the exemption management for heavier, longer and wider vehicles. We Social Democrats believe that it is important that there be effective and rapid handling of requests for exemption. It is today the regions of the Finnish Transport Agency or the municipalities that handle the applications. It is the municipality if the transport takes place within one municipality and the Finnish Transport Agency if it takes place over several municipalities. It is important that the authority that knows the local conditions is also the one that handles the applications. The head of the road is the best known. Rapid processing times and proper handling are also important. The authorities have an obligation to work with digitalisation. We assume that we will also see effects in this area in order for the management to be more efficient and faster. However, we do not believe that moving the exercise of authority from the authority with the best knowledge of the circumstances will do it better, but rather that it will damage the safety of the transport itself. Madam President, I would like We have a major task ahead of us. It is about reducing climate emissions, while at the same time we do not impair the business environment. It is about the road transport of goods and people operating throughout our elongated country. I am concerned, however, that the committee in this report chooses on a number of occasions to dig deep into the toolbox. Instead, we should focus on the big perspectives and on climate and functioning transport. We Social Democrats are in favour of a policy that takes responsibility for the climate, industry and competitiveness. But we also take responsibility for jobs, road safety, and not least for the whole country to live.
i-f6adaba589471443-639	Madam President, I would like Road and vehicle issues engage. That is very clear from this report. It is certainly about the link to the climate issue, but also about the transport sector being important for the development of society and for our mobility.
i-f6adaba589471443-640	The first point I would like to make, Madam President, is the announcement on timber storage. Since 2012, it has been subject to a permit to set up timber strips along public roads, but the Swedish Transport Administration has not charged any fee for the permit. On 1 January this year, a fee for the permit started to be charged, which is now rejected by a majority in the Riksdag. The government is given a mandate to do something about this, and we assume that it will happen urgently. In particular, this fee has become a major burden for the smaller forest owners. Sweden's forest owners and people in rural areas must be able to have access to the public road network without having to pay fees for this. Madam President, I would like Another announcement that the Moderates, Christian Democrats, Centers, Liberals and Swedish Democrats are behind is that we want a decision that enables large-scale tests of self-driving cars. Today, development is progressing rapidly, and it is important that Sweden embraces this development and seizes the opportunities for development. If we are to be sure that these vehicles can be driven without risk to other road users, we must dare to test more large-scalely. The government has previously received similar announcements to develop a strategy for self-driving vehicles, but unfortunately the government has not prioritised those missions. This is where the government needs to get its act together. Sweden's companies should no longer have to wait for long-term strategies and large-scale tests of self-driving cars. Unfortunately, the government's way of working slows down development. I am thinking not least of this from a climate point of view. As Teres Lindberg pointed out, self-driving cars can also affect attitudes toward having a car of your own. Madam President, I would like The third announcement given to the government is to facilitate the handling of exemptions in the case of heavy goods vehicles. Today it may take months for a company to get permission to drive mobile cranes and heavy work machines on the road network. The long processing periods and exemption applications should be reviewed, and this should be facilitated. Otherwise, there is a great risk that this will slow down work and construction in Sweden. Based on my experience as a municipal politician, I can say that we need absolutely nothing to delay and prevent construction, because there are very many obstacles along the way when it comes to building, not least, housing in Sweden. The bureaucracy and regulations need to be reviewed so that we do not hinder growth and development in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Another important issue that we Moderates raise in one of our reservations is that the road network should be expanded so that it can handle longer and heavier trucks – it is good not least for the environment. Then fewer cars can transport more goods, and there will be less emissions. It is also good for the competitiveness of Swedish companies as this can reduce the cost of transport. The extension of the road network to 74 tonnes is far too slow. Here too, work must be speeded up. We say no to new mileage taxes for trucks. We have long distances in Sweden, and if the whole country is to be able to live and if you are to create jobs and growth everywhere, we cannot have taxation at a distance. Madam President, I would like The Moderates take the climate threat very seriously. This is the great question of destiny of our time. Sweden and the whole world should be converted from fossil use to fossil free. This should be done through sustainable decisions based on research and science. It is not political impoverishment and alarmism that will drive the transition, but wise and long-term decisions. The Moderates want to break up today's bonus – Malus system. The Swedish National Audit Office and the Institute of Economic Development have stated in their reviews that bonuses – malus does not work and is not an effective instrument to reduce emissions from passenger cars. The Institute of Economics states that the system does not directly target emissions reductions. The Swedish National Audit has estimated that the cost of reducing emissions by the equivalent of 1 tonne of carbon dioxide through bonuses – malus is about five times higher than the level of the CO2 tax. There are also problems with the export of bonus cars to Norway. The distribution policy effects of bonuses – malus can also be questioned. People who live outside the big cities and who need the car for everyday life to work less benefit from the bonus part than people in the big cities, where wages are generally higher and where the need for their own car is less. This is fundamentally unfair, and it is not a good basis for a broad-based climate policy. Every crown we put on this needs to be used as efficiently and as smartly as possible. This is not done in today's bonus – Malus system. Another issue raised in the report concerns a fossil-free vehicle fleet. Here it is important that we take advantage of the new possibilities available to electrify our vehicles and our roads. We think that the issue of electrification needs more attention and stronger action. There will be new technologies, and we must take advantage of them in order to cope with the environmental transition. We want the government to develop a national strategy for electrification of road transport. Sweden is a large and sparsely populated country that depends on long road transport. Then it is important that the government works faster with electrification of road transport. Madam President, I would like We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but I would like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 6.
i-f6adaba589471443-652	Madam President, I would like I am fascinated when I hear the Moderates in this kind of debate. It's kind of some kind of open-wallet strategy. That's all for everyone, and the government will pay. But you do not show any of that in your appropriations in your budget. So it is whether we are talking about timber warehouses or whether we are talking about other issues. For example, we can consider the issue of longer and heavier vehicles and 74 tonnes. One or two years ago we also had an announcement when we discussed the government's proposals in this area. This would apply not only to the main roads but to all roads throughout the country. But you don't add a single crown to make sure you can handle the bearings on the bridges and roads. It's about the safety of people. We have indeed allocated EUR 10 billion here in the framework of the Investment Plan, so work is under way to strengthen this. But safety must always go first, at least if you ask me as a social democrat. Maria talks warmly in the speaker's chair about the government slowing down the development of self-driving cars. I would like her to develop this. How does the government slow down the development of self-driving cars? It goes without saying to me as a social democrat that road safety must come first. We cannot do what has been done in the United States, for example. We were from the Transport Committee there on a study visit. There have actually been accidents there. Self-driving cars have driven on children at crossing points. I do not want to see that development in Sweden. Road safety must come first. But then we'll confirm the development. We'll make sure we have serious attempts. But you're welcome to explain to me how you feel we're slowing down progress.
i-f6adaba589471443-657	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the questions, Teres Lindberg! Teres Lindberg did not speak in favour of large-scale self-driving attempts, rather the opposite. It is just such attempts that are needed. Of course it should be done in a safe way so that we do not risk people's lives and health, but if we are to be able to introduce self-driving cars in Swedish traffic, this must be secured. It will never be safe for traffic unless we can test drive these cars. I have seen for myself that there have been a few accidents in the United States. But you can imagine how many accidents happen when people drive. I think it is important that we have the opportunity to test this on a larger scale. As far as the issue of more money is concerned, I can say that, as you know, we Moderates are not big supporters of high-speed trains. If I am not mistaken, the current cost of expanding high-speed trains is around 230 billion. That is why I think we have quite a lot of money that we could invest in roads and other more socio-economically viable projects than just high-speed trains.
i-f6adaba589471443-660	Madam President, I would like I would just like to emphasise that Maria Stockhaus is making a real ugly point here: high-speed trains are not funded at all. They are definitely not in the national plan where infrastructure funding lies, so it is only silly to refer to money that does not exist. That, however, is the Moderates' strategy, and I also raised those issues. I note that Maria Stockhaus chooses not to mention them in her reply. It is indeed an open-wall strategy: you say no to the state financing its activities with fees. You're saying we shouldn't have a bonus -- Malus system. You say that all roads should have a bearing class to cope with all heavy vehicles and so on but without dedicating a single crown to it. It is not a responsible opposition policy; I would like to emphasise that very much. On the issue of large-scale trials, I am not against them at all. We have them. I appeal to Maria Stockhaus, Madam President, to review the activities that are actually going on. In Barkarby in Järfälla municipality north of Stockholm we have self-driving buses in regular traffic. If it's not a large-scale attempt, I don't know what it is. Going in with demands for large-scaleness with the USA as a model, which is what you see before you, and not putting road safety first, I think is irresponsible. We must have a great deal of clarity as to who is responsible in the event of an accident. Who's going to pay the insurance cost? Who will answer when a child gets hit? Without being clear that road safety can be maintained, we cannot unleash all the functions that are technically already in place. Technology is not fully to be trusted, and I am not prepared to do so. I think it is irresponsible for you to propose that Parliament decide on this.
i-f6adaba589471443-666	Madam President, I would like As far as money is concerned, we Moderates have looked through the infrastructure plan that lies, and there are a lot of projects that are socially very questionable. If there is money to invest in infrastructure, and we are now talking about extending the roads to 74 tonnes, which is definitely a socio-economic investment, then there is the possibility of redeploying the money already in the infrastructure plan. When it comes to spending money that does not exist, I might think that Teres Lindberg throws stones in glass houses. We are talking a lot about high-speed trains without it being financed, which is remarkable from that point of view. If we are to achieve road safety with self-driving cars, we must dare to test on a larger scale than we do today. I understand the desire to be careful and to have everything clear to 100% before you let the vehicles out in some kind of major attempt, but we still have to do so. We will never move forward in the case of self-driving vehicles if we do not dare to test them on a slightly larger scale – possibly to begin with at a lower speed. It is important to move on, or we will be left behind. Self-driving cars will play a major role in mobility, not least in rural areas, but also in bringing down the share of private cars in big cities. This will be a revolution for mobility, but we must dare to take steps forward and not have both suspenders and belt on us in all contexts. These cars are driving. In Mountain View, California, Google's self-driving cars run in regular traffic in some areas and with speed limitations. We do not have that type of experiment in Sweden, and we would need to see that.
i-f6adaba589471443-671	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats support all our reservations in the report, but in order to save time at voting time, I only call for reservation 27. Madam President, I would like During the summer of 2018, Trafikverket was able to open a limited part of the road network to a new type of bearing strength class, what is called BK4. Compared to the previous 64 tonne limit, vehicle combinations with gross weights up to 74 tonnes are now allowed to run on BK4 roads. With the right combination of vehicles and the right axle configuration you can reduce the pressure on the roads and thus generate more environmentally friendly transport than today. With a adapted vehicle of 74 tonnes gross weight, the axle loads are lower, even though the combination of vehicles becomes heavier. It is not always such a combination gets better from an economic perspective, as vehicle construction becomes more expensive. From an environmental point of view, however, a 74-tonne sekipage is effective because it carries more payload. For the Swedish Democrats it is important that as much as possible of the Swedish road network is open to BK4. There are, of course, limitations where, for example, bridges cannot handle a 74-tonne vehicle combination, but otherwise the road network should be open. Madam President, I would like In connection with the updating of its computer system, the Swedish Transport Agency issued new registration certificates, mainly to owners of heavy-duty vehicles. In the context of this update, the maximum permissible gross mass of the vehicle configuration 6 × 6 was set at 25 tonnes. I will not go into legal texts or technical specifications during this debate, but there are some important elements in the Swedish Democrats' motion. The aim of weight restrictions is, of course, to protect the road network, because excessive loads and high axle loads can cause serious damage to the road network. For vehicles with configuration 6 × 4, which have road-friendly suspension, the maximum permissible gross mass is 28 tonnes. For vehicle configuration 6 × 6 only 25 tonnes are allowed as the maximum permissible gross mass, even if the vehicle is equipped with air suspension or other road-friendly suspension. This hampers the environmental performance of heavy construction traffic. The difference between 6 × 4 and 6 × 6 is that the configuration 6 × 6 also drives the front wheels. The axle pressures do not differ between 6 × 4 and 6 × 6. Therefore, the load on the road does not increase as the regulatory framework limits the maximum permissible axle load per axle to 9,5 tonnes. Vehicle type 6 × 6 is used almost exclusively for vehicles in civil service, rescue services, salvage or the like. The vehicle type is very rarely used for other types of activity, as the construction is expensive and maintenance-demanding. From an environmental point of view, there are major benefits in allowing a gross weight of 28 tonnes, as it allows for a further 3 tonnes of payload per journey. In practice, this means reducing the environmental burden when building new homes, railways and the like, for example. The environmental benefits are significant without adversely affecting the road network. Council Directive 96/ 53/ EC limits the dimensions of vehicles in national and international traffic. Both the introduction of the Directive and Article 4(2) provide for the possibility of applying other rules to national transport operations. One example of this is precisely to allow 28 tonnes in Sweden of triaxial motor vehicles with road-friendly suspension. This allows Sweden to allow a maximum gross mass of 28 tonnes even for vehicles with configuration 6 × 6 in national traffic. The Swedish Democrats propose to introduce a maximum gross weight for configuration 6 × 6 in national traffic. Madam President, I would like The report we are just debating contains some motions on renewable fuels, a fossil-free vehicle fleet and electric roads. These movements have as their starting point the improvement of our common environment. It's beautiful like that, but for what good? It may be a provocative question, but the reality is going in the opposite direction. For a number of years we have seen goods moved from energy efficient, full-sized combinations to smaller and more energy-intensive vehicles. Although in these Corona times we have seen a slight increase in rail freight transport, the trend in recent years is the opposite. Railway operators are experiencing the same situation as the serious hauliers: they lose transport assignments to the rogue operators in the transport industry. What we are seeing is the result of the dismantling of traffic police in recent years and a transport industry left without control and protection from our authorities. Before the corona came and hit the brakes in the world economy, we saw a trend of increasing CO2 emissions. The increase in CO2 emissions from transport is hardly surprising when one sees developments in the transport industry. Moving goods from trains or from energy efficient and environmentally friendly trucks to small and energy-intensive units is completely backwards. The regulatory framework for cabotage and combined transport is most severely abused by rogue carriers. The serious transport companies with high environmental ambitions are becoming increasingly difficult to cope with this unhealthy competition. The country's political leadership is extremely passive in the fight against the criminal activities of the transport industry and is on its hands. The bill is paid for by the serious companies and the environment. Madam President, I would like If we are to regain a healthy, environmentally friendly and functioning transport market in which hauliers, railways and shipping can develop a healthy and sustainable transport industry, the policy must also deliver. We members of the Swedish Parliament can and must create the conditions for serious entrepreneurship. We have a responsibility to take action when we see that unhealthy companies and criminal activities are beating the bones of serious entrepreneurs. The voters, whether they are entrepreneurs or employees, can rightly expect us to act. It is not good enough to push the problems into an investigation, but here we need a strong move. Something is really sick about a transport industry that moves goods from efficient and environmentally friendly vehicles to small and energy-intensive units. If we do not get things right in the transport industry, all the ambitions about renewable fuels, a fossil-free vehicle fleet and electric roads will remain dreams.
i-f6adaba589471443-688	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by calling for the approval of reservation 3 but, of course, I support our other reservations and the announcements contained in the report. This report by the Committee on Transport deals with road and vehicle issues. The Center Party has had an impact on three of its questions, which are now becoming announcements that the government needs to address in the near future. The first announcement is about returning to the order where we do not charge any fees for permits to timber warehouses along public roads and that the Swedish Transport Administration will make administration easier for forest companies as soon as possible. This has been free of charge and less complicated since 2012 – until last winter, when the Swedish Transport Administration both reintroduced the fee and threatened to complicate the entire permit process. The forest industry across the country, the country's largest net revenue industry, was at risk of major damage. We are now making sure that the previous system is restored while maintaining a high level of road safety. The government has been given clear instructions on what to do. The second announcement is that the Government will work as soon as possible to enable large-scale tests of self-driving vehicles in a real environment and commission the Finnish Transport Agency to investigate how much of the road network can be used by self-driving vehicles. Should Sweden continue to belong to the main nations in the future when it comes to vehicle technology and vehicle development, we must remove administrative barriers to the development of self-driving vehicles. Investigations have been carried out, and that is a good thing, but now it is required by the government that it also becomes a workshop. The third and last area where the Riksdag is now pushing the Government for action is about the Government ensuring that the handling of exemptions for heavy transport is facilitated and simplified, including by the Swedish Transport Administration offering municipalities to delegate decisions on exemptions on the road. Heavy lifting carried out by heavy mobile cranes is an important part of everyday life in our country as it concerns lifting in building buildings, industrial processes such as the construction and maintenance of wind turbines and also rapid rescue operations. Today, this very weekday is tangled with unclear permit applications and shared the main responsibility of the roadmaster between the state and the country's municipalities. The report inspires the government on what urgently needs to be addressed. Although this is not my home area, I note that the committee has approved my motion on heavy goods vehicles. Madam President, I would like As the representative of the Center Party in this debate, I am pleased that we have gathered a majority in the committee and the Parliament behind these improvements in the construction of society. In addition to the announcements, I would like the House to draw attention to further areas. One is the work to achieve a climate neutral Sweden and Europe. We all have a responsibility to help change behaviours that do not last in the long run. We will all contribute and participate in ensuring that we have the potential to reduce the climate footprint. The green transition has many advantages and opportunities that also go beyond environmental policy. One example is electrification and transition to fossil-free fuels so that we get better environment but also better public health. By focusing also on health benefits, we increase acceptance to make this transition. In addition to environmental and health benefits, we get local benefits in terms of jobs and entrepreneurship throughout the country, especially in rural areas. Swedish forestry is on the keys to better environment, increased preparedness and raw materials for renewable fuels. In order to reduce the environmental impact but maintain the mobility and accessibility of people and products, transport needs to be made more efficient. A wide range of solutions are needed to break the dependence on fossil fuels and reduce climate emissions. We need more energy efficient vehicles, increased use of biofuels, new solutions with car pools and more. I would like to emphasise that we need to speed up the transformation and production in Sweden of renewable fuels. Madam President, I would like Winter roads on some roads managed by communities are currently poor. One reason for this is the Swedish Transport Administration's new regulations for snow clearance, which means that contractors who are going to clear snow increasingly avoid parallel assignments. This is because snow clearance of road confluences along the road and can result in a delay in Trafikverket's mission. The result may be heavy periodicity. Many road communities therefore need to make separate procurements or winter road maintenance orders. In practice, this leads to the contractor driving several miles of folded plow, so-called empty drive, before the current road consensualness can be remedied. This is costly and logistically irrational. It is a poor use of social resources, and it is not good for the environment. We note that the contributions from the Finnish Transport Administration are not enough. We also need to ensure that Trafikverket procures winter road maintenance in a different way so that it becomes easier for road communities to participate in the procurement.
i-f6adaba589471443-701	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 30, in which we, together with the Social Democrats and the Green Party, reserve ourselves against the committee's announcement on the exemption of heavy goods transport by road. However, I will talk about something quite different; I think Teres Lindberg said what needed to be said on that issue. Madam President, I would like In view of the significant climate impact of transport, Parliament has adopted a specific target for reducing emissions of transport. The objective is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport by at least 70% by 2030 compared to 20-10. In order for Sweden to reach the target, emissions must be reduced significantly faster than has been the case so far. The Left Party believes that stronger measures are needed. We welcome the fact that the government has set up a study on the phasing-out of fossil fuels and a ban on the sale of new petrol and diesel cars, although the investigator's mandate should be sharper and clearer. In order to achieve these objectives, clear objectives are needed, not the other way round. However, it is good that the investigation has been set up, and we look forward to the outcome. The investigator will propose a year when fossil fuels should be phased out in Sweden and measures that can be taken in a long-term perspective so that this can be implemented in the most cost-effective way possible. The Climate Policy Council recommends the introduction of a deadline for the sale of fossil fuels. It believes – and we agree – that it is essential that the direction, the final objective and the timeframe of the transition to fossil-free transport are clearly stated to both private investors, government authorities and others who are responsible for implementing the policy. The same applies to individual consumers. Clear information on which fuels will be available in the future is important in order to be able to decide on buying a new car in the coming years. It is also important in the longer term for the availability and prices of usable used vehicles. That is why the Climate Policy Council and we believe that a formal deadline should be set for the sale of fossil fuels and that it should cover both road transport and machinery. The Left Party believes that there is a need to introduce a cut-off date for the sale of fossil fuels but does not consider that the issue of a cut-off date needs to be investigated in all parts. The climate crisis requires clear focus and objectives now. We believe that a deadline can already be decided politically and that there are other elements of the proposal, such as technical design and possible exceptions, that need to be investigated. Madam President, I would like In order for Sweden to be able to make a transition to fossil-free road transport, further measures are needed in the near future. A number of European countries are discussing and preparing a ban on new sales of petrol or diesel cars. Such a clear objective would also provide a good basis for developing a modern automotive industry in our country. A cut-off date for the sale of fossil fuels should be complemented by the introduction in the near future of a formal requirement for new cars sold to be able to run on a fossil-free fuel, which may also be electricity, or a fuel with a high blend of biofuels. The government is aiming for a ban only in 2030. We in the Left Party believe that such a ban will be far too late for Sweden to be able to reduce emissions in the transport sector by 70 per cent by 2030. We would like to point out that 2030 is the year in which the target should be reached, not the year in which we will start working seriously. We're already behind. We believe that Sweden should introduce a ban on the sale of new cars powered by fossil fuels by 2025 and promote the same ban within the EU. This is a proposal that we have elsewhere in politics. One measure that strengthens climate justice and has great potential to reduce emissions from our existing fleet of vehicles is to convert fossil-powered cars into low-emission vehicles. Many car owners do not have financial resources to buy a new car with low emissions, and a large part of our existing fleet of vehicles powered by fossil fuels is possible to convert to e.g. ethanol or biogas. Both Finland and France have successfully introduced conversion rules and state financial support, and according to the Left Party, Sweden cannot have lower ambitions, especially since road traffic has such large climate-damaging emissions. Madam President, I would like Just as Teres Lindberg said in her speech, behavioural changes are also required. It is not enough simply to change the fleet of vehicles. Right now, it's not a good time to travel together. But in the future, when the Corona crisis is over, this is the best way. We have a climate emergency. We are way behind in the transition, and we are already past the time when we could have stopped the development and warming of the world. We will have a warmer world with all the consequences it entails. Now it is important to slow down progress as much as possible. It is high time for concrete action.
i-f6adaba589471443-715	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Jessica Thunander! You have high environmental ambitions – that's good! It is important that we work towards a better environment and to reduce fossil emissions. But I am a little concerned when you talk about stopping the sale of fossil fuels while you are not doing anything about the fuel being smuggled into the country. There is extensive cross-border transport of fuel that supplies illegal goods transport in the country, and mobile refuelling stations have been set up. It is fuel that flows completely beyond official accounting, and it is not MK1 fuel, i.e. environmental fuel. That is why I am a little concerned that in your reasoning you do not focus on this problem. It will cause concern that domestic fuel sales to domestic vehicles are reduced while fuel from other states is smuggled in and flying completely below the radar. I'm a little curious to hear if you've taken a line on this and how to get to the problem.
i-f6adaba589471443-718	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for the question! I see this as two different issues. To smuggle in fuel and use smuggled fuel is criminality. That's another question. I'm going to admit that this is not something we've been discussing directly, so this is going to be a little bit on a hip. The total ban on fossil fuels is in the past. You can't do that overnight. We understand that too. But once it's done, it becomes clearer which fuel is illegal, because then you can see in a completely different way, if you know what I mean. But I see this as two different issues, which we have not discussed in relation to each other. However, the issue of smuggled fuel is very reasonable and something we need to address – quite rightly.
i-f6adaba589471443-721	Madam President, I would like Jessica Thunander, it's not two different issues. The environment doesn't care where the carbon dioxide comes from. There are no limits to this, and it makes no difference whether it is a legal or a smuggled fuel. The carbon dioxide is there anyway, and it is released into our environment. This is an extremely relevant issue because a fairly large quantity of fuel is smuggled into the country and contributes to climate emissions. We must do something about this together. It would be desirable for those of you who put forward wishes and ambitions for high environmental performance to also raise this issue and discuss it. Otherwise, we will not achieve the objectives – that is completely impossible. There's no way to look on the outside of a car what it's powered by. The engine works and the vehicle moves, but what comes out of the exhaust pipe? That's what's interesting. Today it is possible to drive a vehicle completely climate neutral, on different fuels. But it is absolutely impossible to do so on old Eastern diesel. That fuel also contains a lot of sulphur.
i-f6adaba589471443-725	Madam President, I would like I suppose you're thinking, Thomas Morell, that a ban on fossil fuels would increase the smuggling of fossil fuels from other countries. I am thinking that we cannot continue to allow fossil fuels because people engage in criminal activity. However, we must, of course, tackle the problem, because if we have banned fossil fuels later on, they should not be smuggled in either. Solutions and controls will have to be discussed in different ways to find the smuggled fuel. We have control systems, but here we need to check, for example, that trucks do not run on this fuel. This is a relevant question. However, I do not think that it is possible not to ban fossil fuels in the climate emergency that we are facing now because it is believed that their smuggling will increase. I do not believe that the smuggling of fuel increases by the same quantity as what we think in our own pumps.
i-f6adaba589471443-728	Madam President, I would like I would like to start the debate on road and vehicle issues by stating that I am extremely pleased that we have received an announcement on timber warehouses on the basis of the initiative that we Christian Democrats took some time ago. It is incredibly important that the forestry industry is well placed to do its important work. It is also important for the business community that we should be given a notice on exemptions for road transport. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a large country, and the prosperity that we have built up over the last hundred years has in practice been made possible by cars and trucks. No other mode of transport can transport goods from door to door, and no other mode of transport gives people the same freedom and flexibility. The car and the truck have given us more freedom and a better economy. Today's welfare would have been impossible to create without a functioning road network. Our division between national, regional, municipal and individual roads has enabled us to build an efficient road network throughout the country. Unfortunately, this efficiency is threatened when the state does not take sufficient responsibility for its own road networks and when authorities lower speed limits on roads in sparsely populated areas, even though this cannot be justified either by road safety or by traffic levels. We all have roughly the same budgetary framework, but KD believes that municipalities should be able to co-finance individual roads and bridges via bompeng. This had strengthened the ability of municipalities to influence the projects to be built and to bring forward investments that the municipalities consider necessary for the development of local business. We have also increased the appropriations for individual roads in our own budget and regret that the government has not been in favour of this. Madam President, I would like The automotive industry is facing major structural changes. It is therefore gratifying that we are receiving an announcement on self-driving vehicles. However, we have our own specific opinion in this report, which points out that it is important for the government to press ahead with developing a comprehensive strategy for self-driving vehicles. However, I am a little surprised by Mr Teres Lindberg's negative attitude towards self-driving vehicles, which we heard earlier in the debate. Madam President, I would like One of the major challenges in breaking Sweden's dependence on fossil fuels is the transport sector. Domestic transport accounts for about one third of Sweden's total emissions. Energy use in the transport sector has declined in recent years, but the transport sector contributes with the greatest national impact on the climate and is the sector with the greatest dependence on energy imports. Sweden has taken a lot of measures to reduce our emissions, and it has had an effect. Emissions from road transport are decreasing, while the share of renewable fuels is increasing. Sweden is today the EU country with the highest share of renewable energy, which is a good thing. However, it is important that we continue to work to strengthen Swedish environmental and climate policy. One way to move forward with the transformation of the transport sector is to develop a new vehicle and fuel taxation, which can increase environmental governance while reducing the tax burden on car dependants, especially in rural areas. Madam President, I would like Heavy goods vehicles are responsible for emissions of some 3.3 million tonnes of CO2 per year. If we were to electrify the major roads, we could reduce emissions from trucks by at least 50%, which is equivalent to 3.2 percent of Sweden's total emissions. The Swedish Transport Agency shows that if heavy traffic between Stockholm, Malmö and Gothenburg were to completely shift from fossil fuels to electric power, this could mean a reduction in CO2 emissions of 1 million tonnes per year, which corresponds to about 2% of Sweden's total greenhouse gas emissions. Among other things, this means that in our budget we have set aside resources for further expansion of charging poles for both passenger and truck traffic. We are also in favour of the extension of electric roads. Electrification is facilitated if the state is clear that it is the individual principal who is responsible for his own path. This means that Trafikverket will be responsible for electrification of national roads and municipalities and regions will be responsible for electrification of municipal and regional roads. Our assessment is that, in the long term, an electricity transport system can be self-financing, as those who use the electricity pay to those who own the plant itself. If we are to meet climate targets, it requires us to exploit the potential if we use electricity as fuel. The technology is on the rise, and the sales of electric vehicles are increasing. Sweden has a automotive industry that has always been at the forefront in terms of road safety and reduced emissions. We would like to stress the importance of continuing this development. In the work with electric cars and electrified roads there are good conditions for Sweden to be at the forefront. In addition, Sweden has more or less completely carbon neutral electricity production. But if we are to succeed in this technology shift, we need to develop a strategy for electrification of the fleet of vehicles. While we are positive about electrification, we follow the development of HVO, biogas and fuel cells. In our opinion, different fuels will serve different parts of the transport sector. It is therefore important that different government investments do not put future technological developments at a disadvantage. That is why, among other things, we are in favour of the extension of Preemraff, which will reduce CO2 emissions from today's diesel vehicles. Madam President, I would like Sweden's industry is competing in an international market. It is therefore important that our transport operations can be carried out effectively. The introduction of High Capacity Transport, HCT, is an important measure to improve road transport efficiency and reduce environmental impact. In Finland, trucks of up to 34.5 metres are allowed, compared to Swedish trucks at the current maximum length of 25.25 metres. For example, a truck of 32 metres can carry a comparable quantity of goods with 17% less CO2 emissions. We need to use HCT vehicles to increase transport efficiency, reduce emissions and achieve higher safety. We believe that lorries of up to 74 tonnes should be allowed on all roads that are capable of carrying it. We feel that the government has not taken sufficient responsibility to implement this change. We believe that rules should be drawn up quickly so that a gross weight of up to 75 tonnes can be allowed on those parts of the public road network that have sufficient bearing capacity for these vehicles. We also believe that the Swedish Transport Administration should be asked to speed up the licensing of roads with bearing class 4, so-called BK4 roads. It is important that Trafikverket's upgrading of BK4 roads is accelerated, as they strengthen Swedish competitiveness while reducing carbon dioxide emissions. In our budget, which unfortunately was not adopted by the House, we set aside 10 million to speed up the authorisation process on BK4 roads. I regret that the government has not made the same priority. Madam President, I would like A completely different subject: A tractor is an important means of transport for many young people, not least in rural areas. It is an important part of young people's leisure and extra-work trips. We believe that the rules for A-tractors should be reviewed in order to increase mobility in rural areas in particular. We also believe that the traffic environment must be designed in such a way that it meets our road safety objectives. Today, it is mainly motorcycle drivers who are at risk of being injured while driving on our roads. Better designed side railings and properly dosed curves are techniques that reduce the risk of injury. It is therefore important that we always include road safety work when we are upgrading or building new roads. Madam President, I would like We support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 4.
i-f6adaba589471443-748	Madam President, I would like We in the Liberals support all our reservations, but we only ask for the approval of reservation 5, a fossil-free vehicle fleet. I had intended to endorse my motion on self - driving cars, but it was, I am glad to say, an announcement instead. Today we are debating road and vehicle issues. In these days of coronaviruses, the car has been given a special role as a means of transport to reduce the risk of infection. The benefits of reducing the risk of infection and thus the burden in healthcare mean that during this short period of time we are positive that people who used to travel collectively now take the car to work. This is particularly true of those who work in health care and socially critical sectors. This is why the Liberals are now pushing for the temporary abolition of congestion tax in Stockholm and Gothenburg for a few months. Madam President, I would like I am going to start my speech precisely with the announcement of self-driving cars, because although we are in the midst of Corona times, when the policy of various support packages is trying to help struggling companies and when the issue of the climate impact of transport has been somewhat obscured, it is important to raise your eyes and look ahead. This announcement is probably unique in the world. Road safety is the main reason why self-driving cars are developing, and the reason is that 90% of accidents are due to the human factor. If we are to see self-driving cars in the future and increase road safety, we need to make it easier for large, serious tests in a real environment so that operators and also future owners of these cars can test the technology. This is already happening in other countries. The social democrat Teres Lindberg's speech about not rushing up tests is not realistic and does not favour the introduction of self-driving vehicles and thus increased road safety. However, it is not the tests that make the announcement unique. When you think about self-driving cars, it is usually the focus on the car and that it should make decisions in a safe way. It's about huge amounts of data and artificial intelligence. What is forgotten, however, is that one condition for the technology in these vehicles to function independently is that it has road markings to stick to on the road. This is where our exercise is unique. It wants to investigate the requirements of self-driving cars on road markings and how much of the Swedish network can be used by self-driving vehicles and develop a maintenance strategy for road markings. The result not only benefits us in the future but also increases road safety for today's cars. In March, the Transport Committee presented a report on sustainable mobility in rural areas. There, self-driving cars were pointed out as an opportunity. However, it requires us to know whether the road markings are good enough. I am grateful that many parties are now behind the announcement and want to drive the technology for self-driving cars. It is important to move from words to concrete action now. Madam President, I would like Sweden's transport system is important for goods and services to create growth and well-being in Sweden and for people to be able to go to school, work and the home and to various activities in their leisure time. This is a cornerstone of our society. The single most important question for the future of the country's transport following the effects of the Corona crisis is how we can radically reduce the carbon footprint without reducing mobility. Emissions must be reduced by 70% by 2030 compared to 2010. Transport needs to be made more efficient, electrification accelerated and the use of biofuels as well as research and the pace of the introduction of new technologies need to be stepped up. As road transport accounts for more than 93% of emissions, Liberals believe that this is where the greatest focus needs to be put. That is why the Liberals initiated an electrification commission which, with a focus on heavy road transport, will speed up charging infrastructure along our roads. This applies to electric roads but at least as much the static charging infrastructure in different regions so that hauliers can start the transition to rechargeable vehicles already today. Trucks are a major investment in an industry that generally has a low operating margin, so hauliers must be sure that there is an expanded charging infrastructure before investing in new rechargeable vehicles. Liberals consider it more important to tax what pollutes rather than subsidise green technologies in order to get a change. However, we see that this is needed for a shorter period because of the speed required in the transition to new technologies to reduce emissions. We see that the reduction obligation needs to be increased, thus increasing the need for biofuels dramatically. Also bonus – malus is needed to drive the development until rechargeable cars end up at a cost level that allows many people to choose a rechargeable car. With bonus – malus, we take advantage of the fact that those who have the opportunity to buy a car at today's cost enable us to have a second-hand market for people with normal income. Although the number of electric cars is gradually increasing by 2030, the forecast is that a total of 30% of the car fleet will be electrified by 2030. However, there must be enough charging places at the residential buildings for people to be able to invest in an electric car. The law adopted on 2 April, which lays down requirements for charging places at buildings, is a first step, but significantly more charging places are needed if we are to reach 30 percent rechargeable cars by 2030. The share of electric cars in 2030 shows the need for biofuels as alternative fuels for today's petrol and diesel cars to reduce emissions. However, access to biofuels is limited and priority should be given to heavy transport, aviation and shipping. Long-term rules are important together with technology neutrality. Madam President, I would like New technologies in vehicles create new data that can help increase the efficiency of our transport and increase road safety. Collaboration between different actors is important for the best use of data and thus for the benefit of society. Geofencing should be evaluated and implemented in different contexts in order to provide opportunities to steer towards increased road safety, less emissions and better environment. Liberals also want to work to extend the road network for heavier and longer trucks, which can increase road safety and reduce the number of lorries on the road and thus reduce emissions. We also support the announcement that Trafikverket should be able to offer municipalities the opportunity to delegate decisions to Trafikverket regarding exemption for heavy transport, such as mobile cranes, within the municipality. Finally, I would like to raise the issue of timber storage. The committee's proposal to facilitate the administration of applications for authorisation is very positive. On the other hand, there is not sufficient justification for abandoning the principle of funding the exercise of public authority through fees. Therefore, we do not support the proposal that forest owners should not have to pay SEK 2,900 for a general permit of two years. Finally, I would like to express my thanks once again to the support for the announcement of self-driving cars and to call for the approval of reservation No 5. A rapid transition to a fossil-free fleet is a matter of destiny.
i-f6adaba589471443-763	Mr President, I would like to I was apostrophated by Helena Gellerman in her speech. She made it appear that we Social Democrats would be anti-technology and not believe in the development of self-driving cars. I would like to say that it is exactly the opposite. Both the government and myself are very technology friendly and believe in a development with self-driving cars. The question is at what rate. We are in quite a good phase in Sweden today. We have self-driving buses that drive in regular traffic in the Stockholm area. There are self-driving buses that run on trials in Gothenburg. We have Volvo's Drive Me project in Gothenburg with cars walking on regular streets. In Jönköping we have tried self-driving trucks. In particular, we have the large-scale study Zenuity, where they have been authorised to drive cars between Malmö, Gothenburg and Stockholm on the E4, on national road 40 and on the E6 without having a hand on the steering wheel, however with a trained driver. Of course, these are attempts. But they are not small-scale at all, but we are talking about large-scale trials that have been authorised. However, there is a need for very careful monitoring when these tests are carried out. We also need to put road safety first. Our reservation is rather about what the majority of committees see in this case that we are not doing today. What is the large-scaleness that the government does not live up to when permits are granted for very serious projects that put road safety first? I can only see that it is road safety that you can thumb on. Not least, in a previous reply from another party, an answer was about that. Well, that's it.
i-f6adaba589471443-766	Mr President, I would like to I thank Teres Lindberg for the question. From her way of asking the question, it is clear that there is a need for a completely different pressure in relation to these tests. We were with the Transport Committee in the United States. There they do a lot of tests, and they are later on in testing this technology. It is precisely through large-scale tests in a real environment that we can create enough data to see how these cars work. Teres Lindberg addressed the Drive Me project. Volvo Cars had to wait over six months to get approval to start this project. Delays in the system must be prevented. There is not a single player in the Swedish market who would carry out such a test without being completely convinced that road safety is satisfied. It is one of the characteristics of the Swedish market players that road safety is the highest. Road safety is precisely what makes us want to come up with this technology, because that is what can really make us improve road safety. A little bit has come to an end with the active support systems that reduce the number of deaths on our roads. That is why this new technology must be added so that the number of deaths on our roads can be dramatically reduced.
i-f6adaba589471443-770	Mr President, I would like to Like Helena Gellerman, I think self-driving cars are, in the long run, a way to achieve better road safety. However, I do not think that we are really there, but that we should allow attempts without initially having gone into them in detail and having the authorities look at whether we can manage road safety and in what way. We also have experience here. I was on the same trip as Helena Gellerman in the United States. It is clear that I found this to be incredibly interesting, not least the fact that in California, in particular, the trials are being started and then the consequences are being taken. You turn them off when it doesn't work. There we also heard about the experiences of Uber and their self - driving cars, for example. When one of their vehicles hit a woman, they dropped their project. I do not want to expose people to this risk. I think that road safety must always come first, even though we should at the same time acknowledge the development of technology. I want to say that the government does. We also do so through decisions in this Parliament. We do so by allowing lots of trials in different ways, both large-scale and small-scale, but with suspenders and belting and with road safety in the first place. We also do this by having extensive investment opportunities and funding opportunities via Vinnova. I do not think, therefore, that we are doing too little in this context – rather the opposite. I think it is very important that we, from the Swedish state and from the Swedish parliament, ensure that the trials that are going on are also road safety and that they never ever risk the lives of any individual.
i-f6adaba589471443-775	Mr President, I would like to I thank Teres Lindberg for this. However, I am a little concerned when Teres Lindberg puts large-scale tests against those who carry out the tests not doing them according to the rules that are laid down. Of course, the tests in Sweden will be carried out according to the premises, regulations and laws that we have. If you are going to do a test with a passenger car today, there must be a person who monitors the test and who can take over if the car falls. Of course, it is in this way that these tests will be carried out. But it is very important that we get more tests, so that all actors in society have the opportunity to test this technology to understand what a self-driving car means. It is important that many people get into a car and experience a self-driving car. How do they think about this? What can be improved? How can the functions be improved even better? This cannot be answered until proper tests in a real environment are carried out. I am therefore still very concerned that the Social Democrats in their questions and answers here do not indicate that they really want to push us to get more tests in a large-scale environment.
i-f6adaba589471443-778	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Green Party's, Social Democrats' and Left Party's reservation 21 on self-driving vehicles to be approved. Of course, we also support our other reservations. However, in order to allow time for voting, I only support this reservation and the other proposals in the committee's report on the other points. With regard to the development of self-driving vehicles, which is the subject of this reservation, technology development is of course interesting. However, just as Teres Lindberg has explained here, road safety and ethics must be given priority and must characterise the introduction of these vehicles. I feel that there is an excessive belief that self-driving vehicles will solve a variety of problems, not least in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, although we see that there is a well-placed increased risk of increased traffic with self-driving vehicles as it becomes very convenient to use such a vehicle. There is also a need for our infrastructure. Here road markings have been discussed, which in principle need to be spotless – if I put it this way – in order for these vehicles to operate properly and safely. During the Transport Committee's study trip to Germany last autumn, it was stressed that there is a great need for an adequate road base and road markings. Then the question is who should pay the bill to maintain this level on our infrastructure, not least in a situation where we actually find it difficult to keep a standard on road maintenance that is needed for ordinary vehicles. Mr President, I would like to We are all aware that the transport sector needs to be restructured. However, the question is whether everyone is aware of what is actually required to enable us to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions so that we can, in accordance with the Paris Agreement, keep the global temperature increase below 2 degrees and preferably below 1.5 degrees. The objectives of the Climate Act clarify: By 2030 we will have reduced emissions from domestic transport, excluding domestic flights, by 70 per cent compared to 2010. By 2045 Sweden will have net zero emissions. This means that emissions from most sectors must have reached virtually zero. Only some parts of the emissions will be able to be handled with some form of CO2 sink. Emissions from road traffic account for over 90% of emissions from domestic transport. Cars and light vans account for about 70%, and heavy trucks account for 20%. How, then, are we going to cope with the necessary adjustment? Yes, Mr President, we need a number of solutions. We need electrification, but considering that a car in Sweden lives for about 17 years, we know that many of the cars that will roll in 2030 already exist in our society or will be sold in the near future. Although electric car sales are increasing, many cars still have internal combustion engines, and this is even more true of heavy traffic. That is why we also need sustainable biofuels. Biofuels' share of energy use in the transport sector has increased sharply in recent years, accounting for 19 per cent in 2017. But the majority of biofuels we use are imported. My hope is that the Biogas Market Investigation proposal will be implemented so that we can significantly increase the Swedish production of biogas. There is potential for more domestically and sustainably produced biofuels, but it is limited. According to researchers, domestic production of biofuels can reach between 15 and 28 terawatt hours by 2030, but the energy consumption of the entire transport sector is equivalent to almost 90 terawatt hours. It is therefore only a small part that can be made up of biofuels. Moreover, as the forecast is that demand for transport will increase, it becomes clear that the efficiency of transport is absolutely necessary. The government has a clear effort to increase sales of cars that go on electricity or renewable fuels, through bonuses – the Malus system. There is work going on to develop bonuses – malus, which is a completely necessary instrument to enable us to reset the fleet. It is about creating the opportunity even for those who cannot afford to buy a new car here and now, in a few years' time, to buy a used car that is either electrified or on renewable fuels. The reduction obligation is also an important instrument. This ensures that even those who cannot afford a new car are involved in the conversion, and the reduction obligation will also be developed in the future. However, more action is needed in the area of transport efficiency – of course. It is not just about more energy efficient vehicles and engines, but above all about how we can have a more transport efficient society. Earlier this spring I participated in a seminar at Iva, the Academy of Engineering Sciences, which highlighted a model that I think is very educational. It says: Avoid, change, improve! Step one is to ask whether a transport is really necessary or whether it can be replaced, for example, by a digital meeting. After all, this is something that we all really get to try out in these times; we get to value our travels and our meetings. If there is anything positive that can come out of this terrible crisis, it is probably still that we jointly strengthen our digital skills and notice that some transport is not really necessary. At the same time, of course, it becomes very clear that other transports and meetings absolutely cannot be replaced. Step two is that, if you can't avoid a trip, change the mode of transport. Can truck transport, for example, be carried out by rail or by sea? Can the bike and bus replace a trip by car? If it doesn't work, then step three: If you can't avoid or change, you can at least improve, for example by changing fuels. In this way we can work towards a more transport-efficient society. The three pieces of the puzzle that I see for the transformation of the transport sector are precisely electrification, biofuels and efficiency. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise that there will be a need for a number of different actions in this area and that there is no simple solution. For example, when we approach 2045, the biofuels that may now be used for passenger car traffic will not be used for passenger car traffic at all; perhaps they will be used in shipping or heavy traffic. However, all the pieces are important for us to achieve our goals.
i-f6adaba589471443-794	Mr President, I would like to I must admit that I am a little surprised by the extremely negative attitude of both the Green Party and the Social Democrats towards self-driving vehicles. After all, we were a whole group from the committee that was away – half the committee went to Europe and half to the USA. Those of us who were in the United States met several vehicle suppliers who told us about how they work with self-driving vehicles, and we also met IT companies who described how they work with self-driving vehicles and artificial intelligence. What I thought perhaps was one of the more exciting study visits was when we met Highway Patrol, which is the equivalent of national police if you compare California with Sweden, as well as their equivalent to the Swedish Transport Administration. Throughout for all parties – whether we are talking about the companies that build the vehicles, about the companies that help with the digital or about the government side – it was found that there are fewer accidents with self-driving cars, not more. We also got the exciting description that in the case of accidents involving self-driving vehicles in 90% of cases, the human factor in another vehicle is the cause. So it is people who drive into the self-driving vehicle. The Californian experience was rather the opposite – among other things, Tesla thought it – namely: why can't we get a test drive in at least one country in Europe? What if Sweden could be the test platform where vehicles are allowed to drive? I have to say that I think it would be attractive. We have been good at being a test platform when it comes to winter driving, and we have been good at flying. We could be good at AI, too. So my question is: Why this negative attitude?
i-f6adaba589471443-797	Mr President, I would like to I would like to emphasise that I do not feel that we are against self-driving vehicles per se; on the contrary, I feel that the government has a very strong job in developing self-driving vehicles. However, I think there is a need for some reflection on the introduction of the new technology, and I do not always feel that Magnus Jacobsson and his colleagues have the cautious approach. Instead, it is very much believed that this will solve a number of different problems, not least with regard to emissions from the transport sector. However, we know that there is a risk that we will see increased traffic – an increase in the number of kilometres driven – if we introduce self-driving vehicles on a broad front. One should also be aware that we have, to some extent, self-driving vehicles on the road network today. I think anyone who has ever had a test drive or a test drive in Tesla knows that there is a pretty good driver's support, for example. It can help the driver, and this kind of technology can certainly reduce the risk of accidents caused by the human factor. But it is also important to consider the issue of responsibility – on the ethical issue and on what choices AI technology actually makes for us. It is therefore important to carry out proper testing of the technology and to implement it in a well-thought-out way. There are also common EU platforms to find common paths and approaches to the introduction and testing of self-driving vehicles. However, we need to think about what is most important right now: is this the most important thing, or is it perhaps research and development in other areas that actually take us towards our environmental and climate goals? I think we can do several things at the same time, but I do not see the need for an announcement in this area.
i-f6adaba589471443-801	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to make it clear that, from a Christian Democrat point of view, we do not believe that self-driving vehicles will automatically result in fewer miles. In densely populated areas, this could possibly result, for example, if we consider self-driving taxis or equivalents. However, in sparsely populated areas, where people live outside a city, this would rather result in a doubling of the mileage. The vehicle must, for example, go out to a farm and pick up the person and drive it back. You do your business, and then you're gonna get in the car and get brought home again. There'll be twice as much travel as if you own your vehicle. What we have seen that can be a problem – here too, however, we have had the privilege of reasoning with some lawyers – is rather the issue of responsibility. However, the issue of liability has already been resolved in the case of ordinary vehicles. Some pieces in the case of ordinary vehicles are about legislation; we have rules and laws on how to drive in traffic. But when an accident occurs, it is the insurance companies that go in and act. Looking at the Californian solution, you can see that that is actually exactly what they have done. They have not complicated things more than that they have retained exactly the same behaviour as in the case of ordinary vehicles. We have laws and rules on how to behave towards each other, in this case including AI. When an accident occurs, it becomes an insurance matter. If it is then that something illegal has happened, it will also be a police matter. That part is actually already solved. Then we return to the basic question: What is it that makes the government's parties dare not let Sweden take the lead in this area?
i-f6adaba589471443-805	Mr President, I would like to Despite several lines that have dealt with this issue during this debate, I do not really understand exactly what the opposition does not think the government is doing in the area of self-driving vehicles and what it really wants to add to its announcement. The government has active work in developing technology and in following the technology for self-driving vehicles. From my point of view, I think it is important to have a cautious approach and to introduce this type of new technology in a cautious manner that also takes into account road safety, ethics and morals. The issue of responsibility, which has been raised here, must also be taken into account. It is also important to understand that these self-driving vehicles can actually lead to increased traffic, both in rural areas and in our urban areas. If there is a cost advantage and if it is incredibly convenient to have a self-driving vehicle, that type of activity may increase traffic rather than a necessary shift to public transport. When introducing this type of new technology for self-driving vehicles, I also believe that it is important to look at how the new technology can help to break the requirement for people to own their vehicles and contribute to the increased service of the transport sector. There is nothing to say, however, that this is done automatically, but it is something that needs to be regulated and where you need to have an active hands-on. As I understand the announcement that Magnus Jacobsson and others are behind, it is not in this well thought-out way that you want to conduct tests and introduce this new technology in Sweden.
i-f6adaba589471443-810	Mr President, I would like to I have signed up for this debate just to thank the parties that have formed a majority and thus supported the Christian Democrats' committee initiative to remove the levy on wood scraps along public roads. This gives us an announcement on this issue – now it is only up to the government to come up with a very fast delivery. When it became known that the Swedish Transport Administration would reintroduce this fee of SEK 2,900, there was a strong reaction in the forest counties, as this would entail both costs and losses for forestry and for the individual forest owner. The average forest owner in Sweden has 49 hectares. So we have a lot of smaller landowners, which means that there are small fellings. If we also get a winter like the one we have had in southern Sweden, with almost non-existent frost but on the other hand very much wind, we get many wind traps that have to go out. These are also often geographically dispersed. In addition, we have bark drill attacks that require that we get the bark drilled forest out quickly. This too is geographically spread. If you have to pay 2,900 SEK for an application, a large part of the profit will disappear. You don't own a forest for your goodness. You want returns, and you want to work in your own forest. It's got to carry itself. A CEO of a sawmill at home in Värmland wrote like this:"It's really nice to see that it's actually possible to push back real chair decisions. In pure Värmland, it is a decision to re-impose a fee when we do not need it. It is therefore a good and important announcement we will be voting through here this afternoon – for Sweden's forest owners, for the Swedish forest industry and for the Swedish countryside. Once again, thank you very much.
i-f6adaba589471443-818	Mr President, I would like to The issues we are now going to debate span a wide range of areas, ranging from noise to ownership and licensing. I will focus on the latter two, but I would first like to talk briefly about the plethora of environmental objectives that exist. For the uninitiated, it may sound strange, but the fact is that there has been inflation in beautiful environmental goals. This makes it difficult to know which ones should be prioritised, as some overlap and sometimes even resist each other. Let me first make it clear that the Moderates believe that Sweden should pursue an ambitious climate and environmental policy. This applies not only to national but also to international contexts, not least because many of the environmental objectives also depend on developments in other countries. To be constantly reminded of our promises to the world, I have in my study put up a poster with the UN's Agenda 2030 goal. They are 17 in number, and there are also 169 sub-objectives and a lot of indicators to measure progress. This is important, because if we are to achieve our ambition, we only have ten years. How has the government worked strategically on this? For me, it is somewhat unclear. Hear it for yourself: In 2015, five years ago, Sweden signed up to the sustainability goals. Subsequently, assignments have been distributed to several authorities, and two years ago an action plan was drawn up. Last year a study was presented on how the work should be carried out, and two months ago a national coordinator was appointed in this particular area. That person was given the task of reporting this in 2024, i.e. in four years' time. But the problem is that the time was very short from the beginning. The question then is how we can guarantee that we in Sweden will achieve the sustainable development goals to be met. And if we do not, how can we expect other countries to do so? In addition, one might wonder how this will affect our other environmental objectives. In the same way that we are committed to achieving the 2030 Agenda targets, there are other international targets at European level that we have said yes to. In addition, we have our own national targets that we must comply with. When the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency carried out an in-depth evaluation of them last year, it turned out that we are far from achieving the national targets. The fact is that, according to this evaluation, only one of the objectives we can achieve is that of protecting the ozone layer. Note, then, that we have been working towards these national targets since 1999. It takes time to make changes. Even if many goals coincide, a friend of order understands that it would greatly facilitate the work if we could clear something in this flora. It is also something that we Moderates propose that the Environmental Goals Council should be given the task of doing. As far as property rights are concerned, it is probably widely known as a moderate profile issue, and that is true. However, not everyone may know that ownership is actually considered a human right. It is protected by both the form of government and the European Convention. Thus, ownership rights have a very high level of legal protection, which also states that, in the event of interference or infringement of property rights for the general good, there should be a principle of proportionality, which means that these infringements must be balanced against the harm suffered by the individual. That sounds good. But that is also why it is so serious when more and more landowners and entrepreneurs in the green industries believe that ownership is being eroded. This is often done by small steps and measures which individually would not be perceived as particularly dramatic but which, taken together, impose severe restrictions. These are signals that all parties in Parliament have noted, and that is also why both the Committee on the Environment, Agriculture and the Constitutional Committee have in recent years called on the government to review and strengthen ownership rights. The government has recently set up a forest investigation that will partly highlight these issues. However, we Moderates are not entirely convinced that it will be able to provide adequate answers in terms of property rights even for the forest. This shows, not least, the management of what is known as green infrastructure, where the county administrative boards have been given the task of drawing up action plans which may lead to private landowners with very small areas being forced to give up their land use. This is a requirement that can apply despite the fact that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency today does not even have a government mandate for this. It ended in 2018. Nor is there any specific legislation on which decisions on green infrastructure can be based. Nor does it know how to interpret any decisions relating to green infrastructure. So we do not know how the action plans are to be valued. The Moderates therefore feel that work on both existing action plans and new potential futures should be paused until the government has worked out how the projects affect individual ownership and use. This is also linked to the important issue of permit processes. Many companies are complaining today about long processing times. This also applies to those seeking permission for activities that could create environmental and climate benefits. This is extremely unfortunate. The Moderates therefore believe that for those activities that choose to invest in environmental improvement measures, the process should be simplified and accelerated. Of course, it should not deteriorate – the legal perspective and all other perspectives must of course be highlighted – but the process should be simpler, more predictable and more efficient. For example, measures aimed at reducing emissions or at authorising the start of test or test operations should be subject to an accelerated test. Of course, red tape and long processing times must not limit companies wishing to take environmental responsibility. To be honest, this is an issue where there is broad involvement throughout the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture. But when the January parties choose to hand out roses to their government, we Moderates remain critical of what is actually achieved. Over the last three years, the committee has called on the government to take action in this area, but to date we have not seen any concrete results except a memo presented a year and a half ago. Mr President, I would like to This was a small cut out of the important issues dealt with in the report. I look forward to the forthcoming debate as I take note of what my colleagues in the committee think important to highlight. I shall conclude by calling for the Moderates' reservation 5 to be approved, but we naturally support all our reservations.
i-f6adaba589471443-836	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating cross-cutting environmental issues – a mix of things that may not really fit in with other reports – with emphasis on objectives and licensing. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 8, which concerns aquaculture. This is a particularly topical issue today, when we have aquaculture that is in serious crisis as a result of the coronapndemine. Since fish farmers' customers are largely dominated by restaurants, hotels and market halls, the crisis is particularly serious for these food producers. It is positive that the government has met the industry, but more concrete measures are also needed. From the Swedish Democrats' side, we want to see broad investment in direct payments to such vulnerable sectors that have been affected by extreme demand. Often these are activities that can be completely swept off the track in the event of bankruptcy and may not be able to come back. When it comes to aquaculture, it was already before the pandemic a vulnerable sector that has largely been characterised by bankruptcies, costly licensing processes and entrepreneurs moving their business to other countries. Our reservation is about licensing, and it can be observed that the processes currently vary between county boards. It is costly, it takes time and, of course, it creates great uncertainty, which, as everyone knows, hampers investment. If you're going to have an investment-friendly climate, there's going to be security, and it's not here. The permits are also issued for only ten years, which does not create any direct security for their own operations. Migration is something you hear about from several entrepreneurs in the industry today. This state of affairs is regrettable, as it is essentially an environmentally beneficial industry with enormous potential, which must grow if Sweden is to be able to increase food supply significantly. Mr President, I would like to One reason why these conflicts of interest arise is all the different goals that we have in Sweden. It is a goal of increasing food production, and it is a goal of the environment. That's a lot of goals. It's no wonder. We have politicians and a people who care about the environment and our nature. The politicians want well, but what we have today is a bit of a chaos with a lot of goals overlapping and with different authorities responsible. Supervision, scrutiny and responsibility are sometimes unclear. This also contributes to the situation we have today, which affects aquaculture, for example, where the County Administrative Board, on the one hand, makes a contribution to trying to start up the business. But once the business is to grow, become viable and stand on its own feet, on the other hand, there will be no permits. Forestry is, of course, also affected in this area, where we want to see a revision of the objective of Living Forests. It has primarily been handled by Artdatabanken and SLU, without sufficient transparency from others who may have an interest in providing views on the nature conservation work carried out in forests and its importance for endangered species and habitats. Some of these objectives are today more or less utopian because a very large number of species have never had a viable status. This is therefore an example of objectives that need to be re-established. Mr President, I would like to Landowners' rights and access to justice are a priority for the Swedish Democrats. The relevant authorities in this area must be given directives which emphasise that the right of forest owners to use must be protected as far as possible. The authorities and their staff shall provide objective, professional and positive advice to help landowners develop their business. The decision to protect soil must therefore be made with caution and in consultation with owners and only after all other alternatives have been tested. Once this happens, it is essential that market remuneration is paid promptly.
i-f6adaba589471443-847	Mr President, I would like to We are discussing a number of pressing environmental issues here, but also questions about how the work for a better environment should promote other aspects of a good society. We discuss how we can build acceptance for environmental work when it risks colliding with other values. For us in the Center Party, it is a matter of course that we should work for a sustainable society in harmony with nature and the environment. But it is also clear that sound environmental policies are not only effective but also in a balanced way trying to deal with target conflicts that may arise from, for example, property rights, growth and living outdoor life. Environmental threats are a collective threat to our entire society. The work to solve environmental challenges is and must be something that we take on together. Individuals, companies and the public must all do their part. Having said that, we have a special responsibility from the public and politics. It is we who have set environmental targets, and it is the state that is responsible in various ways for compliance with environmental requirements and rules. If you are to be able to do so in a credible way, it is important that in the public sphere you live as you learn. With this in mind, we in the Center Party want to see a minimum floor set for environmental requirements for public procurement. The contracting authority has developed various requirements that can be used by the public if they wish to impose tougher environmental requirements. There are different levels of ambition for these requirements, and they are voluntary to use. However, it is perfectly reasonable for the state itself to use the requirements that we encourage others to use. In this way, the state also takes on leadership in the work for a better environment and a sustainable society. The public sector must also make it easier for anyone who wants to take the lead, who wants to change and who wants to invest. Not least in these times, bureaucracy and regulation need to be minimised in order for resources to be put on the right things. That is why it is worrying about the long state of affairs that we see. Companies wishing to change are hindered by the state's complicated regulations. An electrical cable to a steel mill can take a decade to build, even though it is absolutely necessary to get it in time for the investment to be made at the right time, when the power plant has its audit. It is quite unreasonable for the state to stop the conversion that the state is asking for. The Center Party has proposed a green trail in the state-of-the-art processes in which those who do environmental improvements should have faster management, simpler rules and reduced bureaucracy. In addition, we have received an investigation that is already being processed and where the climate issue is to be taken into account in the environmental assessment much more clearly, which is not the case today. This means that those applying for a permit can be credited with all the good they do for the climate and not just be exposed to the bad that can happen for the local environment. These things are absolutely crucial to getting investment. Especially when we're about to kickstart the economy, we need to get investments in place. Then the state's own rules can't hamper. Mr President, I would like to Of course, it is also important for the state to take on leadership in sustainability work in other ways. UN member states have agreed on the 17 global targets under Agenda 2030. Around the country, municipalities, regions, companies and civil society organisations have taken on board efforts to achieve the global goals. It is time that we more clearly develop our Swedish environmental objectives and link them to the global sustainability goals. There are an incredible number of forces that want to work for a better environment: entrepreneurs who work every day for sustainable growth, farmers who protect the natural values when they use the soil and environmental organisations that channel individuals' commitment to a better environment. I see people fighting every day for us to get a little better and for us to be able to hand over a better world to our children. Unfortunately, there are also dark forces. There are people and organisations who take the environmental struggle as a pretext for directing hatred and threats against other people, who commit crimes and try to justify it by being on the side of animals or nature. In recent times we have seen farmers and hunters exposed to both threats and physical abuse by violent activists. This is totally unacceptable. The security of the people involved in green industries must be taken seriously. Strong action is needed against this type of violent movement. Against this background, strong action should be taken to ensure that the public funds we allocate to various organisations do not go to violent organisations. It is also of great importance that landowners and other people affected by reservation formations and other intrusions are not without rights. The Centre Party wants to see an improvement in the rules governing the compensation of landowners for such infringements and a comprehensive review of different types of compensation in respect of ownership restrictions that the landowner can easily and effectively obtain when making reservations or introducing site protection that restricts his own forestry. As part of the January Agreement, an investigation has now been set up into, among other things, strengthening property rights and new, flexible forms of protection and compensation. It is our hope that this investigation will lead to real improvements for the country's forest owners. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to endorse reservation 16.
i-f6adaba589471443-861	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for our reservation 17 on environmental criteria in public procurement, although we obviously support all our reservations. In this report, as in many other reports in the field of the Environment and Agriculture Committee, we come into ownership and thus use. This is tragic from a number of points of view, but not least for the landowner who suffers from the weakness of the state but who then wants to do the right thing. Now the government parties are partly hiding behind the ongoing Forest investigation, but since it is located at the Ministry of the Environment, unfortunately I am not so hopeful. I would like to quote today's report: the protection of property rights, the so-called protection of property rights. the protection of property, is a fundamental right under the form of government (RF) and the European Convention. In all forms of interference with property protection, both the RF and the ECHR provide for a principle of proportionality whereby the need for an infringement of the protection of property on grounds of public interest must be balanced against the damage suffered by the individual as a result of the infringement. Of Chapter 2 The second paragraph of Section 15 RF further follows that the individual must be guaranteed compensation when the general restriction on the use of land or building by anyone in such a way that ongoing land use in the relevant part of the property is significantly impeded or damage is caused which is significant in relation to the value of this part of the property. ..................................................... It is a rather boring text, but the meaning is very important – if only it had been followed. That sounds good, but in practice it turns out time and again that the state is trying to escape the bill and the financial responsibility, and thus it is the individual landowner who gets caught. As an example, I can mention a well-known case from the beautiful Värmland, where an individual landowner was not allowed to fell due to the fact that bomb walls had been found in the shift to be felled. Murklan was thus so valuable that it was not allowed to fell, but it was not so valuable that the state through the County Administrative Board or the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency would go in and replace the landowner. On the other hand, it was so valuable that the landowner himself would be responsible for the loss of income through his own goodness. You're hearing how unreasonable that is. In the budget proposal for 2020, the Government states that Sweden's forest owners are currently doing important work to maintain and protect the biological values of forests. At the same time, the Government argues that environmental considerations in forestry need to increase and that further measures are needed for a varied and sustainable use of the forest landscape in order to achieve the environmental quality goals and outdoor recreation goals. In this report, among other things, the so-called green infrastructure is one of these measures. Then I ask the government parties: is it again the individual landowner who, out of goodness, will stand for this? Even landowners need to get money to survive. You can't live off a pat on the back of the government because it thinks you're a good social citizen who lets his forest fall apart, as it becomes in practice. In addition, we can put major questions about how the circular economy and the substitution from fossil material against renewables should be protected, even if more forest is to be protected. The role of the forest as a carbon sink also decreases when the forest eventually dies. A managed forest that grows is our absolute best carbon sink. Mr President, I would like to We are in the midst of an intense period of change for the sake of the climate. As part of this, the State's own authorities cannot be slow in granting permits to companies wishing to make their conversion. Nor can the government intervene in legal proceedings, as it does in the case of Preem in Lysekil. During the Parliamentary Session in 2016/ 17, an announcement of a so-called green cream file was voted through, precisely so that processes for permits for environmental and climate improvement measures would go faster. Unfortunately, the result of the announcement shines with its absence. I have asked for it from both representatives of the government parties and Minister for the Environment and Climate Action Isabella Lövin, but without receiving an answer. We do not, therefore, want it to be implemented, even though we have a decision from Parliament's House. It is urgent to make changes for the sake of the environment and climate, but apparently only sometimes. At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Environment and Agriculture, we received a digital visit from the Climate Policy Council, which presented its report. Permit processes were one of the points they raised. They also feel that there is a great deal of uncertainty. It takes too long to obtain permission, it is an unpredictable process and different assessments are made in different parts of the country. So it is not only meek; it is also not legally certain. Here the government has to deliver on the announcement that exists. Mr President, I would like to In a committee motion from my colleague Camilla Brodin, among others, we in the Christian Democrats say that the municipal veto at wind power installations should remain to protect the local population and safeguard local self-government. We do this because the Swedish Energy Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency have submitted proposals to the government that municipalities should no longer have the right to say no to wind power establishments. The authorities suggest that the municipal strength of the environmental code be removed. The proposal was ordered by the Red-Green Government. The two authorities were given the task of looking at the law that enables municipalities to say no to wind power establishment and thus propose measures in this direction. The proposal from the authorities is therefore almost to be considered as an on-demand product. The wind power industry has long wanted to remove the municipal veto against wind power. But the interests of wind power are not above everything else, such as municipal self-government. While we are on the subject of energy, I cannot help but express my gratitude here for the announcement that the Committee on Economic Affairs is proposing and on which we are going to vote this afternoon in this House. The proposal in the notice would facilitate small-scale hydroelectric power and thus mitigate the government crusades currently taking place against this important activity. Mr President, I would like to Finally, we Christian Democrats believe that the environmental criteria for public procurement should favour shorter transport and increased share of locally produced goods. The criteria should also, as far as possible, be designed to enable local companies to participate in the procurement process. This is now being implemented with positive results in a municipality which is well represented in our committee and which I understand the President is also well aware of, namely Ödeshög. There are the Christian Democrats in the leading position. The public sector has a great potential to influence emissions of CO2 and environmental pollutants through the procurement of both services and goods. This applies, in particular, to foodstuffs. Public procurement, driven by sustainability and based on a life cycle analysis, benefits both climate and product quality. Public procurement should take into account factors such as environmental and climate impacts. It should also be taken into account that shorter transport reduces the negative environmental impact. This suggests an increase in the proportion of locally produced products. Therefore, the criteria should, as far as possible, be designed to enable local companies to participate in the procurement process. In this way, we build on the bottom for increased production, which in turn leads to a higher degree of self-sufficiency while at the same time providing our farmers with a much-needed increased profitability. If the government could then deliver promised measures against Sweden's animal rights extremists, we would take two giant steps towards a better future for our food producers, Sweden's farmers. In addition, we would have a more open and used landscape, as many people ask. I say it again: farmers do not grow on their land out of their own goodness; that is their job. That means it has to pay off. Landowners, forest owners and farmers cannot conjure up money with their knees.
i-f6adaba589471443-886	Madam President, I would like This is an overall debate on environmental policy. There are a few different environmental issues that do not really fit in any other of our environmental or climate debates. In environmental policy, it sometimes sounds a little bit like human beings being a problem. We talk a lot about how man uses the forest in the wrong way, how man emits too much carbon dioxide or how we use plastic in a bad way. But, Madam President, without man, nature would actually have had no value. Without a man who grafted the vine, plowed the field, the forest used and without people feeling spring winds in the hair or salt spatter in the face, there would have been no one there who could treasure nature. At the same time, Madam President, if we humans use our soil in the wrong way, fish out the seas and devastate forest areas that cannot become viable again, we risk burning out the planet. Just at the trembling point of balance are some of the most difficult issues of environmental policy, and some of those we are dealing with here today, namely between the right of man to use nature and the ability of nature to be viable also for future generations. We in the Liberals want to strengthen property rights and make the compensations if they are curtailed better and more adapted to the value that the restriction actually entails. We want to ensure that government trials are more legally secure and decent and perceived as fair play than might be the case today. We want to ensure that permit processes are shorter and that greater consideration is given to climate, not just to the environment, because it is a problem today that permit processes take too much account of the environment, sometimes at the expense of the climate. Madam President, I would like I would now like to delve a little into our reservation No 13 and ask for its approval. It may seem to be a matter of detail, but it puts its finger on an important issue of principle in environmental policy. It is a question of the fact that, after a number of judgments, we have seen restrictions on the possibility of sports with regard to noise. For example, we have a football field in Nacka where children's footballing noised so much that they would not be allowed to continue their important sports. This is a bit strange, for a stone's throw away lies the busy Värmdövägen, which was not thought to be noisy too much. It would continue to exist, but the children who played football would not be allowed to keep kicking ball on their football field. This is because there are different rules. There are different regulations that regulate children's football playing and how much it sounds and how much a motorway gets noisy. As a result, we put people's right to noise freely on the motorway higher than children's right to sport and to have a healthy, healthy, fun and strengthening childhood. This is quite unreasonable, Madam President. I think most people who are watching this right now understand that children must be allowed to play sports. If you live with other people around you, you have to accept that sometimes they do things that you don't like. You have to accept that people dress in a way you don't like. You have to accept that sometimes people have a little party, play a little loud music and maybe are a little drunk, but without doing anything stupid. This must be accepted, perhaps especially when you live in a metropolitan area, as Nacka actually is. Madam President, I would like A wild thought may be that we here in Parliament should not with the long arm of the law regulate and regulate in detail such things as how much a local football field can sound in Nacka. Perhaps there is someone other than us in this Parliament, with our regulations and our laws, who can judge that better. I and all the Liberals – it applies regardless of which party you are a member – believe that cities and towns, of course, must be allowed to grow dynamically with the people who live there. There will be no regulatory framework that will make everyone happy everywhere, quite the contrary. If you have the ambition to regulate so that everyone can be in exactly every place, in exactly the same way and enjoy just as much, you will eventually have a world, a society, cities or a Nacka, in this case, where no one thrives very well. Not everyone can thrive everywhere in all environments, but if you let it go a little freer, everyone can thrive somewhere. Then those who want to get a little closer to the football field for their children's training can thrive there, and those who want a little more peace and quiet can enjoy it elsewhere. Those who want to live a little closer to the city's pulse and nightlife may enjoy living there. Let us ease these rules. Let us make sure that children can continue playing football in Nacka and around the country. Let us ensure that we humans can continue to cultivate the land, including in this way, but in a sustainable way, in a way that works for everyone, not just for some of us politicians in this House. With this, I am once again in favour of reservation 13.
i-f6adaba589471443-899	Madam President, I would like Targets are about direction, about state we want to achieve and about priorities. Targets are about where we're going and how we get there. In this House this evening, we are debating the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report 12, horizontal environmental issues. Two of the major headings in the report are precisely sets of where we are going and how we get there: through environmental protection systems, permit processes and processing times. Environmental measures can and will strengthen Sweden's competitiveness and stimulate jobs and entrepreneurship. By taking the lead in climate change and environmental work, our companies can remain and develop as world leaders in developing the technology and environmental profile that the world demands. We Social Democrats believe in broad solutions and investments to cope with the major environmental problems. It's the Swedish model. We set targets, and we set funds. Madam President, I would like Five years ago, world leaders agreed on Agenda 2030, with global development goals and a new climate agreement. There is no doubt that efforts to achieve the global goals of sustainable development are very, very urgent. The Committee on the Environment and Agriculture has stated earlier during its term of office that Sweden is carrying out ongoing work to achieve sustainable development and the UN's sustainability goals. The government, as well as the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture and we Social Democrats, believe that the environmental objectives are tangible for sustainable development and that they are an important starting point for the national implementation of Agenda 2030 and the 17 global sustainable development goals. As a social democrat, at this time I cannot stress enough the importance of cooperation – internationally and here in Europe. The UN is the hub of global cooperation, which is why we Social Democrats want Sweden to work for an even stronger UN through its long-standing UN commitment that can better manage crises and promote development. The global environmental and climate goals are something that we Social Democrats not only want to follow, but lead. To this we also have the European Union, which is a project for peace and freedom on an intergovernmental basis. Sweden has benefited greatly from the internal market, trade agreements and free movement, and this has led to more jobs and stronger growth. Through our membership, we can also play a part in influencing the development of a more equal, climate-smart and green Europe. We Social Democrats therefore want Europe to take a leading role in the world with an ambitious climate and environmental policy. It is therefore good that Sweden has high objectives and demanding environmental legislation. Our authorities' trials and requirements for documentation should be simple, predictable and effective. The ongoing virus outbreak once again reminds us all that alone we are weak and that together we are strong. A deadly virus is sweeping the earth, and we cannot face this alone. Of course, my thoughts go to all those who toil and suffer and face distress and death. Madam President, I would like In the big part, however, I am optimistic about the future. The virus outbreak has challenged our cohesion. At the same time, it has brought us together. Climate change is the great destiny of our time, and it will also challenge our cohesion. Climate change will continue to bring us closer together, because common problems are best solved together. If we were to stand together, we would fall apart. It should also be simple, predictable and efficient when it comes to permit processes and processing times. The Parliament has also pointed out the value of further speeding up permit granting processes for environmental improvement activities. The government is currently working to streamline permit processes, and permit testing according to the Environmental Code is a special priority. Many of us follow the continued work with a great deal of commitment. Sweden as a leading country and our world-leading companies need effective and legally secure processes. We welcome the decisions taken by the government to simplify and streamline the administrative contacts of the green industries. Digitisation and digital solutions will simplify data provision for industries and speed up processing time. We therefore welcome action plans to create fewer, common digital platforms for information and e-services for all who run or will start and develop businesses. We in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture also note that work is under way within the Government Office to take care of a specific proposal for the development of an e-service for certain types of applications. This is to be welcomed. For more efficient authorisation processes, we Social Democrats and the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture believe that it is good that Sweden has demanding environmental legislation. At the same time, there is great benefit in streamlining licensing processes and shortening processing times. Furthermore, the environmental review work of the county administrative boards has recently been investigated on behalf of the Government Office. There are identified areas of improvement potential– yes. On the other hand, an adequate investigation must be carried out at each stage of the environmental test, where comments must be reasonably evaluated. Finally, Madam President – Sweden is an environmental country at the forefront. In a stronger society and with cooperation, we can meet the Swedish environmental objectives through investments and new rules that reduce greenhouse gas emissions, protect biodiversity and create a non-toxic environment and a better marine environment. Objectives and processes can play a given and important role here. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all reservations.
i-f6adaba589471443-918	Madam President, I would like I was going to stay brief, but I think it is important that we give a realistic picture of where we are currently in Sweden and what challenges we have ahead of us, Markus Selin. The honourable Member talks about all the great environmental goals we have set up and all the instruments that the government provides, but it somehow feels like you don't see the forest for all the trees. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency notes that of the 16 environmental quality objectives that Sweden has set itself, we only reach one, which is about a safe ozone layer. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency also says – I read before – that the instruments and measures needed to achieve environmental objectives will not be in place by 2020. Part of the environmental objectives will expire in 2020, Markus Selin. I therefore think, as I said, that it is important that we communicate a realistic picture to the public and not just stand and promise gold and green forests, because that is not where we are. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency states that we need to speed up the pace. It is above all the objectives relating to climate change and biodiversity that we need to focus extra on. I would like Markus Selin's comment on this, Madam President. Does Markus Selin share my view? Then I think we should tone down a little and stick to the truth.
i-f6adaba589471443-922	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member, Betty Malmberg, for the question. Things take their time, and I know, in answer to Betty Malmberg's question, that today's environmental system and our set of goals are the result of a thorough and long trial in Parliament. We need a structure in Swedish environmental policy. Sweden is pursuing an ambitious climate and environmental policy, perhaps the most ambitious in the world. And Sweden not only pursues an ambitious climate and environmental policy nationally but also wants to disseminate it internationally. As Betty Malmberg pointed out, we are also conducting rigorous follow-up work, where the Moderates also participate. I think we have a fairly broad consensus on investigative work and indicators, both in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture and in relation to what we are achieving nationally. So I do not share the Moderates' doubts and concerns about our environmental objectives. Sweden wants to be a leading country, and we are happy to sit in the driver's seat.
i-f6adaba589471443-926	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Markus Selin, for your answer! Yeah, things take their time. The national environmental quality targets that Sweden has once decided on here in Parliament are from 1999. It is therefore over 20 years ago, but the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which manages the follow-up work, has stated that we will only achieve one of the 16 goals – that is where we are located. This is what I mean, Markus Selin. We Moderates are really keen to work towards an effective environmental and climate policy, both nationally and internationally, as I said. We shall be an example, and we shall have sharp environmental proposals. But we will not achieve a development if we embellish the picture, because then we will not take the measures that are actually needed. That is my point, but it apparently goes by Markus Selin. It is also about the permit processes. In fact, I think that Markus Selin gives a very euphemistic and permissive picture of the work of the government, and that, of course, the honourable Member has every right to do so. But even in the case of licensing processes, for three years we have been calling on the government to take steps to speed up the process so that we have efficient, simple and predictable processes. What we have received so far is an investigation, and it came a year and a half ago and is now being prepared. I do not think this is to be filled. We must go ahead, and then we must also have effective measures to do so.
i-f6adaba589471443-930	Madam President, I would like I am pleased when I hear the zeal of the Moderates to be offensive in environmental and climate work; I welcome it. As a social democrat, I can inform both the Moderates and the honourable Member Betty Malmberg that Sweden will be the first fossil-independent country in the West, and there will be consequences. The change work is going on here and now. Those of us who have worked in the automotive industry, for example, know how long it takes to develop a new platform, whether we are talking about passenger or lorries. Swedish industry has understood this. We've been clear on what we want. For example, we want a fossil-independent vehicle fleet. I welcome once again the zeal of the Moderates. I hope that we will see it in the decisions and continue the work of our Committee on Environment and Agriculture, because in what we see now I see no reason to revise our targets or indicators or similar in our target systems.
i-f6adaba589471443-935	Madam President, I would like In my speech here earlier, I was also concerned with permit processes and the so-called green cream file, which was voted through with an announcement during the Parliamentary Session 2016/ 17. I mentioned in my speech that I have asked both representatives of the government parties and Minister for the Environment and Climate Action Isabella Lövin. To be absolutely truthful, I have asked representatives of one government party but not the other. That is what I intend to do now by asking the Social Democrat Markus Selin. In his speech, Markus Selin said about more efficient permit processes and shorter processing times that it should be simple, predictable and effective and that it should be legally secure. That sounded great, Markus! It couldn't get better. But why has nothing happened? So this was adopted in 2016/17. Now we are at the Parliamentary Session 2019/ 20, and we have still not reached the goal. We now get very often reports that it is actually very urgent if we are to cope with the temperature reduction in order to reach the temperature target. Yet the government cannot deliver. My question to Markus Selin is why the government has not delivered on this announcement from 2016/17.
i-f6adaba589471443-940	Madam President, I would like I thank the Christian Democrats and Member Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson for the questions. I am pleased when the Christian Democrats offer enthusiasm and willingness to work in relation to permit processes and our common environmental and climate work. I could give a brief answer: the questions are being prepared right now. However, I will try to accommodate Mr Ottosson a little more, because he both raised the question in his speech and put the question to me. Several requests from the Riksdag have been addressed to the Government. The answer is yes; I know it. As I said before, things take time. I can say, both as a social democrat and as a small part of the current government base, that we have an offensive climate and environmental policy. We have it. We will be the first fossil-independent country in the West. The government is working to streamline the licensing processes and the licensing process, so let's have a little more patience. The question is being prepared within the Government Office. Let us wait with great commitment and eagerness for what is to come.
i-f6adaba589471443-944	Madam President, I would like I stand here smiling a little to myself, because Markus Selin comes with the same answer as one always gets when one asks a written question to a minister: the question is prepared by the Government Office. That's the standard answer, and that's not an answer. Otherwise, we could have a discussion about whether climate and environmental policy is effective or whether it is largely placard policy, but I will leave that alone. However, it is stated in letter 75 from the previous Parliamentary Session that this issue is not finished and that it is working. It also says what you work with, and when you read it you can see that it is only about collecting statistics and statistics and statistics. Sometimes it is also with statistical data collection. You just change your words, but it's all about collecting statistics. We do not get better permit processes, more efficient permit processes, more predictable permit processes or legally secure permit processes just because we collect statistics on what has happened in the past. It has to be a workshop. That is my call to Markus Selin – he must make sure that his friends in the government actually get further on this issue so that we get all the way through. As I said in my speech, sometimes environmental and climate policy is in a hurry. But apparently not always.
i-f6adaba589471443-949	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Ottosson for the questions and his eagerness to move forward with more efficient licensing processes and shorter processing times. I can share some of this frustration and eagerness to move us forward. Demanding environmental legislation should be effective, predictable and simple. Things take their time, especially when we in Sweden want an environmental and climate policy that is one of the world's most offensive. Again, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson and Madam President, the question is being prepared. Those of us who have great eagerness and desire to move forward in terms of permit processes will see. It's coming.
i-f6adaba589471443-952	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to support the proposal in the report. I would also like to quote from the Government Declaration, which the Prime Minister read out in this House in winter 2019, following an unusually long process of government formation: 中 Twenty years ago, the Riksdag made a decisive decision: To the next generation we will hand over a society where the major environmental problems are solved. The environmental objectives system must now be developed and new milestones developed. ..................................................... The Government's letter "Environmental targets – with a view to the future that came in 2018" stated that the environmental objectives work continues with a view to 2030. It was approved here in Parliament. Work towards 2030 is now continuing with renewed momentum. With the environmental objectives, the Riksdag has a very high ambition in the environmental work. It is extremely important that we strive for the state of environmental quality targets. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency presented this year's follow-up to environmental objectives a couple of weeks ago. Sweden's environmental objectives are central to leading the way towards sustainable development and towards Agenda 2030. Over the next few years, society as a whole needs to speed up environmental work if we are to achieve the goals set. That we in Sweden follow how the environment is doing and how the environmental work is going – and that we have done so for so long – is very important for our knowledge of which environmental measures are effective and what we need to invest in and how. The whole of society needs to contribute: companies, municipalities, authorities and organisations. The environmental objectives will have an increased impact in the policy work. It may seem slow, that certain objectives are more difficult to achieve than others and that investment and planning are needed, but systematic and diligent work is the basis for a successful environmental policy. I would like to highlight an important player: the business community and entrepreneurs in Sweden. Work to achieve the climate goals is a good example where entrepreneurs are involved and bear the leadership for the whole society to cope with the climate change. That was not the case ten years ago. In ten years' time, perhaps our successors here in Parliament will be here to talk about how important business has been in achieving the biodiversity objectives. The environmental objectives include a rich plant and animal life, Living forests and a rich agricultural landscape. All too often, I hear here in the parliamentary debates, especially by the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, that the work on environmental objectives, on the EU's strategy for green infrastructure and on implementing Swedish environmental policy – as established here in the Riksdag – is a restriction of property rights and a threat to the alleged right of forest owners to ignore the environment. But what other laws can landowners ignore? None. How can environmental objectives be presented as a threat when they help to meet the common challenge of all of us? As the Prime Minister said in the Government Declaration: To the next generation we will hand over a society where the major environmental problems are solved. Last year the consultancy company Ecogain made an analysis of Sweden's 100 largest companies. It was 8 out of 100 companies that measured the impact on biodiversity. Nature is found somewhere in each company's value chain, although it may be more difficult to detect for some. 43 per cent of companies mentioned biodiversity in their sustainability report. 15% stated that they set a biodiversity policy or target. But only 8 companies measured the impact. Biodiversity is becoming more and more business-relevant. There are companies that set targets for net benefits for biodiversity. They do not just try to avoid, minimize, restore or compensate for the impact they have on biodiversity. They're doing something else. Biodiversity can now evolve from risk to business potential. I will address another environmental objective – B bordered climate impact. I'm pretty sure none of the 100 largest companies in Sweden ignore climate work. Maybe not everyone's as ambitious. However, the climate issue is included in the Board rooms, at the Annual General Meetings, in the business plans, in the Sustainability Report and in the product information. The next step for biodiversity is right there. In the report, the authorities point out that many of the efforts made by the government during the year are important for achieving environmental objectives. They mention climate change, industrial life, investments in the protection of meadows and pastures, wetlands, smart and sustainable cities and more. This year's report shows that Sweden needs to prioritise the climate and biodiversity very strongly in the coming years. The S-MP government is working intensively to improve climate policy and to develop policy proposals that lead us towards climate targets in time. In December, the government presented the first ever climate action plan. Sweden's environmental objectives and the global sustainability goals are heading in the same direction. The efforts to achieve environmental objectives thus contribute to the achievement of the SDGs of the UN 2030 Agenda. The global sustainability objectives integrate the economic, social and environmental conditions for sustainable development. Here, a proposal to Parliament will be discussed first by the Finance Committee. That it is precisely the Center Party that wants to throw environmental objectives into the trash basket, or, as they put it, adapt the environmental objectives to the global sustainability goals, I find sad. There are environmental objectives that are consistent with global goals, but there are also environmental goals that are not consistent, such as the Non-toxic environment. Environmental objectives have been crucial to Sweden's major successes in reducing the risks and use of hazardous substances. Madam President, I would like Today, Sweden has received a new red list. Every five years, Artdatabanken compiles a list of all individual species that have decreased significantly or that are at risk of extinction in Sweden. A diversity of species in nature makes society less vulnerable. We humans can't take care of ourselves. Therefore, it scares me now that we get figures showing that the proportion of species at risk of extinction in Sweden has increased by 10 percent in just five years. Fully aware of the risks, we cut off the branch on which we sit. Without biodiversity, we find it more difficult to become self-sufficient in food. We are becoming more exposed to infectious diseases and less prepared for extreme weather. Without biodiversity, we deprive our children and grandchildren of the natural experiences we adults have taken for granted. When we build our society after the Corona crisis, we are obliged to do so in such a way that we reduce the vulnerability of society. Nature is probably our best safety net. Sweden and the world are currently in a very serious pandemic. My thoughts go to everyone who is sick and the health care professional who is working hard in the intensive care departments. We don't really know when the pandemic's over. But we know that the day will come when we need to build economies and businesses in all the countries of the world. Then we need to make an effort in which we get an economic strategy that ensures that society invests strongly in order to cope with both climate change and the preservation of biodiversity.
i-f6adaba589471443-977	Madam President, I would like The fact that Maria Gardfjell is attacking the Christian Democrats is not so strange. But the fact that Maria Gardfjell is attacking one of our constitutions, the form of government, is remarkable. I quoted in my previous speech from the report, which drew text from Chapter 2 of the government form. Section 15 on property protection. The report states that property rights are protected by our own constitution and are protected by the European Convention. However, what is not included in the text of the report is that property rights are also included in the UN Declaration of Human Rights. But all of a sudden we shall be able to ignore this right according to Maria Gardfjell. I have no idea how Maria Gardfjell lives. But let's say she lives in a two-storey house. Suddenly someone comes home to Maria Gardfjell and says she can't use the stairs upstairs. This makes not only the stairs but also the whole upstairs useless. How would Maria Gardfjell react? In the same way, it is in the forest when you come and say that it must not be used and not used. Thus, even larger parts of someone's forest holdings can be made completely worthless. Does Maria Gardfjell see the concern about how we deal with property rights and thus the right to use them today?
i-f6adaba589471443-982	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Ottosson for the question. It is worrying that ownership and the right to use are confused in the way that the Christian Democrats do. All too often, we hear here in the parliamentary debate, especially from the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, that the work on environmental objectives, the EU strategy for green infrastructure and the implementation of Swedish environmental policy, as established by the Swedish Parliament, is a restriction on ownership. Ownership is constitutionally protected, and it is not at all in question. On the other hand, there is a principle of proportionality that, if restrictions are imposed, there should be proportionality. Then it should also be possible to receive compensation. Madam President, I would like What is a little surprising is that when the Moderates and Christian Democrats together with the Swedish Democrats got the chance – when we had the shaky formation of government at the beginning of this term – they presented a budget that went through in the Swedish parliament, before we had a government. In this budget, they cut heavily on money and spending on the budget, which is precisely about replacing landowners and forest owners for these things. It is therefore self-evident that we in the Environment Party want to ensure in the budget that there are sufficient resources to replace landowners and forest owners when, for example, a bomb wall is found in the forest land and needs to be protected. Unfortunately, however, it is the Christian Democrats who have taken away the money.
i-f6adaba589471443-987	Madam President, I would like In fact, the right of ownership and use cannot be divided. If you own something, you also own the right to use it. The two are one, and splitting them up as Maria Gardfjell tries to do in her answer does not work. It's not connected that way. It is clear in the text I read that you will receive compensation when there is a restriction. We see, however, time and again that the state says, "This shouldn't be used."You can't stab this, but it's not valuable enough for the state to pay for the money. Instead, it is the individual landowner who, in his goodness, must stand for it, even though it is the big brother of the state who points to the whole fist and tells that the land must not be used. Yes, Maria Gardfjell, we cut back on the money when we presented our draft budget. It was obvious because we did not want to set aside more forest there before we had a legal certainty worthy of the name. We still haven't got there, but it's still legally insecure. Now we are pleased to see that it has come to the realization that key biotopes, to take an example, are actually an intervention in another person's property and not just a acquisition of knowledge. The Swedish Forest Board has now come up with this, and you have to look at other possibilities. I have to ask Maria Gardfjell: if the forest you have is not safe enough for the state, is it safe enough for the landowner to have to pay for the economic? The state therefore does not like to do so, but it is the state that has said that the land must not be used.
i-f6adaba589471443-991	Madam President, I would like Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson initially asked me how I lived. I can tell Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson that I am also a forest owner; I have a forest property in northern Västerbotten. It is not the case that the state in any way restricts and says that the forest owner must not farm the land, but what the state says is that the land must be cultivated taking into account the environmental code. We must then be able to protect certain parts of our forests, and that is exactly the same type of restriction as in any legislation where both individuals and businesses must comply with the law in different ways. I think it is very good that Kjell-Arne Ottosson is raising the issue of key biotopes, Madam President, because it is a very important issue. The Swedish Forest Board has surveyed the key biotopes, and the forest owners who have key biotopes on their land have been able to sell their forest with a special stamp – the FSC label. With that stamp, you get more paid for your forest. It is therefore a market solution to ensure that biodiversity remains in our forests. I find it strange that parties like the Christian Democrats say no to marketable solutions, Madam President.
i-f6adaba589471443-994	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an interesting speech, Maria Gardfjell! I have to say that, compared to the speech by the partner in the government, the Social Democrats, it was much more toned down when it comes to being aware of what the government is capable of and where the government is right now. Like Maria Gardfjell, I believe that environmental and climate issues are business opportunities. That is what we must continue to work towards, so that it spreads even more in the business world that this is a competitive opportunity for the future. Maria Gardfjell also raised the business community and valued their efforts. The fact is that there is even a survey, Madam President, which has gone through and asked questions about which one believes will have the greatest impact when it comes to being able to change climate policy. Unfortunately, those who came to the top were not us politicians, but those who came to the top of the survey were the business community and the entrepreneurs. That is where it was seen that the big difference could be made. Then we come to ownership, and my colleague Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson has put it very well. However, it is important to say in this context that there is currently a forest investigation with a little perspective on ownership. It was something that was negotiated in the January agreement, and I am amazed at Maria Gardfjell's previous speech. I simply wonder: is the Green Party behind that forest investigation and its directives?
i-f6adaba589471443-998	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Betty Malmberg! Betty Malmberg first mentioned the good news that companies are more involved in environmental and climate issues. What I said in my speech was that companies must now take the next step and be equally involved in biodiversity. I have heard in the debate today that environmental objectives sometimes stand against each other, for example, that climate targets are against biodiversity. It has also been highlighted in the debate that one wants to ensure that permit processes, for example, are faster – is something good for the climate one does not need to care about biodiversity. But it is not that simple with the environmental objectives, but the environmental objectives and Agenda 2030 are based on taking all the targets into account at the same time. What companies could do much more when it comes to licensing processes is to take the initiative themselves to reduce risks. Very few companies have sufficient competence in terms of biodiversity. They could acquire this competence and make sure to plan, for example, the expansion of a large industry in such a way as to avoid the possible damage to biodiversity. You can put the factory on one part of the plot instead of the other and perhaps meet the challenge that way. However, if you do not have that competence and can build it in from the beginning, there is a risk that you actually get lengthy processes. I therefore believe that the business community itself can be a part of this. I'll have to come back to Bettys's other questions later.
i-f6adaba589471443-1002	Madam President, I would like Permit processes take time. I was reading a little about the permit processes for wind power, for example, and there we expect three to five years – excluding the appeal possibilities, which in this matter can be counted as a problem for those who have the intention to set up a wind turbine. It is precisely this type of issue that we need to get more on the roll, because without profitable companies we do not get any tax revenue. A business opportunity might have passed by because the licensing process was too extended in time. What I said in my speech was: we have agreed in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture that we want a fast track, and I hope that the Green Party was also part of that constellation. I even think that there are three times that we have repeated this. But what it is all about is that it should be a legal test, that it should be simple and that it should be predictable. Then companies know what to expect and can adapt their plans accordingly. In fact, without profitable companies, as I said, we stand flat. It is companies that can give us a future. I share Maria Gardfjell's view that biodiversity may be the next step to take, and, as I understand it, many entrepreneurs are already talking about this being the next area to focus on. So please help us keep the entrepreneurs under our arms – and also be sensitive to their wishes! Then we can have a positive development.
i-f6adaba589471443-1005	Madam President, I would like Betty Malmberg mentioned that the permit processes take time and mentioned the wind power and the appeal possibilities that can further prolong the permit process. Of course, this can be seen as a problem. As an environmental party, I want a lot of wind power, but I also want to respect the fact that, for example, landowners, forest owners and local residents can participate in the process and also appeal if they think it is not good from their perspective. It's about having a good process. At the same time, I agree that much less red tape and a higher level of service are needed for those companies that want to invest in investment in order to cope with climate change. In order to succeed with both less bureaucracy and better service levels, we in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture need to review what the efforts on the authorities that do this job look like. If the county administrative boards do not receive sufficient funding in the budget, they risk sitting there with their beards in the mailbox and not having enough officials to maintain the high level of service and to ensure that forms and structures work in a simple and smooth way. That, of course, is a problem. Earlier in Betty Malmberg's line, she pointed out that politicians do not top out when measuring who the public thinks is best when it comes to environmental and climate issues. Instead, the business community often comes up quite high. It's very good that the business community is coming up high, but I want to say that we politicians may be able to get more united and work more together – then maybe things will go better.
