i-f1e166b123e01138-1	Madam President, I would like Every term of office comes at a time when, as a member of the Committee on Taxation, we have to go up to the pulpit and debate various varieties of congestion taxes. Today's the day again. This time it applies to the Marieholm tunnel in Gothenburg. I can already say that we Swedish democrats wish to reject the government proposal. We say no to the proposal on congestion taxes in the Marieholm tunnel. I would also like to take this opportunity to call for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation. Nevertheless, I would like to pay tribute to the government: there is no lack of creativity in any way whatsoever in taxing people who want to move from point A to point B with an engine-driven vehicle. For earned and already taxed money, fuel tax, CO2 tax, fuel tax and CO2 tax must be paid, as well as vehicle tax. There you might think the poor motorist would have done the right thing, but alas, so you deceive yourself! In the event of an ever increasing number of places in Sweden, you as a motorist must also pay a fee to pass. Once the fee has been imposed, the government is also free to increase it when additional money is needed. We have experienced this here in the Stockholm area on a number of occasions. In Stockholm and Gothenburg you pay what is called a congestion charge. The goods or not of the congestion charge can be discussed, but the name itself suggests that congestion should be avoided by some refraining from driving into town. But if you study the geography around the Marieholm tunnel, you can see that it is about something completely different. The tunnel is supposed to lead traffic past Gothenburg and thus just avoid congestion, in this case in the Tingstad tunnel. Then the crowds are reduced, but is the government happy with it? No, it is not the government, because then congestion charges will be reduced from those who would otherwise have gone through the Tingstad tunnel, and then you will have to introduce a congestion charge even in the Marieholm tunnel. In that case, it should be called a non-congestion fee or a collect-in-money-to-the-state fee. One can really question whether this is in practice a congestion tax. The government needs money – so much we understand. In addition to everything else, what is called the West Link has been launched, a mismanaged prestige infrastructure project whose costs run out, and the Gothenburgers have also rejected it in a referendum in 2014. Its future benefits are far short of cost. The reason I am referring to this is that the bill explicitly justifies the congestion tax by financing the West Link. It is, in principle, problematic to impose additional fiscal burdens on taxpayers who are already contributing so much to the public purse through all the taxes I mentioned earlier. In some cases, you can certainly put forward the argument that you want to steer or drive away traffic or that you want to persuade road users to choose another means of transport. One can also understand to some extent that the state wants to get money from international traffic that passes, for example, the Öresund Bridge. However, as far as the Marieholm tunnel is concerned, we do not see any such arguments. It will be an ordinary route that will be exploited by commuters and professional traffic – cars that we want to arrive. It is about working people, and we all have an interest in them getting up in the morning and getting to work. The report submitted by the management group of the Western Swedish package shows that: There is no expected behavioural effect in this case. Now I do not want to put any bad ideas in the heads of the honourable Members of this House. But if you open up for the introduction of a tax here there are hundreds of tunnels and bridges all over Sweden where you can exhibit a digital tax mass, which collects money from passing vehicles. We in the Swedish Democrats want to move in the opposite direction. We want to lower taxes for people who need the car in their daily lives. That is why, in principle, we reject the introduction of congestion tax at the Marieholm tunnel. And if there is no money, then we call on the government to show the same creativity in reducing costs. The Swedish Democrats have made a large number of proposals in this regard over the last ten years here in Parliament, but it will fall outside the scope of today's debate. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-f1e166b123e01138-16	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. What we are talking about today is congestion tax in the Marieholm tunnel in Gothenburg. It is not, therefore, about the commodity of congestion tax or not. There is already congestion tax in Gothenburg, and there is also a clear majority for this in Gothenburg. But it is about building a new tunnel, and it will affect the whole congestion tax system in Gothenburg. Congestion tax is not widespread throughout Sweden, but only in Gothenburg and Stockholm, and it has to do with huge traffic jams there, especially in rush hour traffic. It is therefore a way of reducing the waiting time. It's one of the main reasons you have it. Although the Marieholm tunnel is not located in central Gothenburg, it has been seen that the congestion tax tends to move traffic a bit outside, in order to escape the congestion tax. This means that there will also be queues outside the small central area. That's why you have to count the outer parts, because otherwise you just move the queues. What happens when the Marieholm tunnel is clear is that there is a tax-free road, unlike the others, which is subject to congestion tax. It is therefore traffic in and out of Gothenburg. There may then be traffic jams due to traffic gathering there. We have congestion tax, and if it is to work, it must work all the way. As I mentioned, the main objective is to reduce queues and get fewer cars. This is closely linked to the environment and reduced emissions, but it is also a question of contributing to the financing of investments. It is about public transport, rail and roads. Today, funding is shared between the state and Gothenburg, roughly fifty-fifty. Therefore, it is important to obtain income in order to build the necessary modes of transport. As far as entry into force is concerned, the tunnel is expected to be completed by 2020, i.e. this year, but we do not know exactly when. That is why the government is allowed to decide exactly when this will enter into force. The purpose of the construction of the Marieholm tunnel is to relieve the Tingstad tunnel in Gothenburg, where there is a lot of traffic. It will also make the traffic system less vulnerable, because things can happen that make it a total stop – it can be a car accident or anything. If there is a total stop in one place, it is good that there are other roads where traffic can arrive. The congestion tax in the Marieholm tunnel comes from a proposal from the Swedish Transport Administration and the Municipality of Gothenburg. So it is they themselves, regionally, who want this. It is based on an investigation, and this has led to the government proposal. The proposal has been reviewed, and the decision is predominantly positive. A majority of the consultation bodies are in favour of the proposal, and there are a number who do not have any views on it. There are also some who have comments, but it is still a positive outcome. When you look at the effects of congestion taxes in the Marieholm tunnel, you can see that there is a small change for individuals and companies compared to today. As far as the environment is concerned, it is estimated that it will dampen car flow and that accessibility will be improved. As for the impact on public finances, the estimate is that there will be SEK 25 million more in revenue per year. However, it is important to point out that this is not just something that goes right into the state treasury, but it should be used for investments in traffic in Gothenburg. The administrative costs are over SEK 1 million. One-time costs for system adaptation will be SEK 1 million. The investment costs for two new pay stations at the Marieholm tunnel will be SEK 6 million. However, this must be offset against the revenue of SEK 25 million, so this will not be a loss. This is not about the introduction of congestion taxes – we already have. It is more a matter of us having it fully. It will be a very strange half-measures if you suddenly have a tax-free road where there is also a risk of being very long traffic queues. However, despite the fact that this is not about the introduction of congestion taxes, I would like to give a small background to why this is being done. As I mentioned, this is the exception – it is absolutely nothing that is spread all over Sweden, but it is the exception for Stockholm and Gothenburg. It's a time-and-place tax. It is not a matter of day and day, but it is mainly a focus on peak traffic on weekdays, in the morning and in the afternoon. However, there is also a certain fee during the day. There is more traffic then than, for example, on weekends, because it is not congestion tax. As I mentioned, it is about special places where there are very big problems with traffic jams. What is hoped for by this is that some people refrain from unnecessary travel. It's not the main focus, but one or another such journey may be. It's also about people being able to travel to other times, which also means a time gain for the individual – there will be less queues if the journey takes place at another time. It is also about people being able to carpool. For example, it is possible to be several people in a car. It's not necessarily the case that people stop driving, but they might go more together. This is good for the environment. It also gets cheaper, and accessibility gets better. Then there are other modes of transport that can be chosen. Furthermore, using congestion tax revenues to build public transport, for example, can even increase the possibilities for individuals to choose different modes of transport. Although it is not called congestion tax but is something entirely different, what is currently on trains, airlines and ferries is somewhat similar to this. The less attractive departures, at times that people simply do not travel to as much, are often cheaper. The attractive departures, when many travel, are often more expensive. This is also a way of ensuring that congestion decreases – the more expensive it gets, the more people may choose another time to travel. It is the same with congestion taxes; it is lower charges at the less attractive times. The purpose of congestion tax is to influence the behaviour of road users. A secondary effect – and this is not the main objective, it is really number two – is that you get revenue that in turn can go for example to public transport, which is good both for the environment and for the individual. There are simply more choices when it comes to how people travel. It is also the case that supply affects demand. If you build a new road that makes it a time gain for the individual, more people will choose that road. However, this does not only apply to road transport, but also to the construction, for example, of a new train section and the construction of high-speed trains. This can lead to many more choosing trains, as they gain time in that way. Not only does intensive car traffic affect the environment and society as a whole, but it affects the motorists themselves to a very large extent. A lot of people choose the car because of the cost of time, so it can go faster. If people are stuck in a traffic jam, maybe for half an hour or an hour, they lose that time. In the countries with the most traffic jams and where public transport is least developed, it does not matter how many car files you have, but the more people you drive, the longer you wait. It's going to be a lot of stress. There is a risk that people will be late for work, and when they finally get to go home from work, there is a risk that they will have to wait and wait. That is why this is at least as much for the motorists themselves as for anyone else. It is simply a question of reducing queues and waiting times. Of course, it is also good for the climate. I heard about a calculation that showed that about 1 000 people die of air pollution in Sweden every year; there are quite a few. Many also suffer stress and even death from noise. You may not think about it when you hear this noise, but it can actually be harmful. If we can reduce car traffic, it is good both for those who really need the car, because it will be less waiting time and easier for them to get there, and for all of us. It will be better environment and better health. There will also be more choice if public transport is also expanded. This is not about congestion tax – it is a small addition to this – but it is still important to have this background. I therefore support the proposal to introduce congestion tax in the Marieholm tunnel in Gothenburg.
i-f1e166b123e01138-40	Madam President, I would like The Left Party supports the proposal in the Tax Committee's report on congestion tax in the Marieholm tunnel, which happens to be in my hometown of Gothenburg. The aim of the change is to improve accessibility, to improve the environment and to contribute to the financing of investments in public transport, rail and road. The ideal of such investments would, of course, be to reconcile greater fairness with environmental efforts. That is why we also need to restructure the transport sector as a whole, which currently accounts for one third of Sweden's total emissions. A large part of them come from cars. However, 90 per cent of all trips by public transport in Gothenburg take place using renewable fuels or electricity. Therefore, zero rates should be a key element in the climate change that must take place. Making it free to travel collectively also makes it easier to leave the car. This is precisely what congestion taxes can actually account for. It may not come as a shock that the Swedish Democrats have reservations, given the way they have previously voted in relation to the slaughter of the environment and the climate budget. It should also be made clear to them here that it is not only the central parts that are in congestion, as Mr David mentioned. He claims to have studied Gothenburg's geography, but this became rather doubtful. It can be said that traffic traffic is long in rush hour even outside the central parts. You should only see the area around the E6 and on towards the Tingstad tunnel – about the height of Liseberg it really stops in rush hour traffic. That's it. That's it. That's it. I think they should have made a study visit before writing this reservation to see what it actually looks like and what the parts look like before you get to the place where the Marieholm tunnel is to be built. Madam President, I would like It can be summed up as a clear reduction in car traffic when the congestion tax was introduced in Gothenburg. Without congestion taxes, we would probably have been at significantly higher levels today than we are actually doing. Not having congestion tax in the Marieholm tunnel, when the Tingstad tunnel right next door has it, would also have had very negative effects on traffic at large. Many people would have chosen the road through the Marieholm tunnel instead of taking the nearest road through the Tingstad tunnel. If the tunnel is now taxed, the traffic increase will be less, which means less congestion. It is also about how sustainable you want to build and how you want to divide this. The money we can use for the climate transition. That's exactly where they're needed. After all, we need to change our society and the transport sector and make it much cheaper – or preferably free – for people to travel collectively.
i-f1e166b123e01138-48	Madam President, I would like Today we are dealing with proposals for congestion tax to be levied on journeys through the Marieholm tunnel, which is currently being built under the river in Gothenburg. It is a decision that is expected to be taken with broad support. Only the Swedish Democrats oppose this decision. I support the committee's proposal. The Green Party has been the party that has historically been the driving force behind the introduction of congestion taxes. Not least, we took the lead in introducing congestion tax in Stockholm in 2007. At the time the tone was high, but the decision proved to have such a positive effect that when the Parliament discussed the proposal to introduce congestion tax in Gothenburg in May 2010, the decision could be taken in agreement. The purpose of the congestion tax is double or perhaps more triple. It will help to improve the environment but also accessibility by reducing traffic and by distributing traffic more evenly over the day. In addition, the congestion tax contributes to the financing of investments in public transport, rail and road, including the West Link, and the new river link at Marieholm, which we are discussing today. As I said, the congestion tax has several important functions. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions from traffic is a major challenge. About one third of Sweden's CO2 emissions, Madam President, come from the transport sector. Road transport emissions account for more than 90% of domestic transport emissions. There needs to be a major change here if we are to achieve our climate goals. Through the Climate Act, Sweden has set the target for us to reach net zero emissions by 2045. This means, in principle, that all sectors must reach zero emissions. Only a few sectors can rely on CCS technology. In addition, the transport sector alone has one intermediate target: by 2030, emissions from domestic transport, excluding domestic aviation, which is part of the EU's trading system, will have fallen by 70%. To achieve the climate targets, it is not enough simply to change fuel or electrify car traffic. In order to achieve the objectives, there must also be a substantial increase in transport efficiency, i.e. reduced traffic. Here we need to work with several different control instruments. Congestion tax is one such instrument that can provide incentives to choose public transport or bicycle instead of car. It is particularly important to reduce car traffic precisely in cities where there are actually good opportunities for other alternatives, such as public transport or cycling. Then there are also more opportunities for those living in rural areas and dependent on the car to be able to transport in the future. However, it is not only in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions that it is important to reduce car traffic in our cities. Every year approximately 3,000 people die in Sweden due to air pollution caused by traffic. That's a pretty high number. You're surprised when you hear it. Children suffer from lower lung growth and asthma to a greater extent if they live in busy streets than children living where there is less air pollution. Of course, children living centrally in cities should also have the right to breathe clean air. The effect of the congestion tax has been that car traffic has actually decreased. It is estimated that traffic flows are 7 – 8 percent lower than before the introduction. This, of course, affects both climate emissions and air quality and congestion. This is why congestion tax is an important instrument. The congestion tax is also an important part of the financing of new infrastructure in the form of the Western Swedish package, which, in addition to the Marieholm tunnel, includes several important investments in public transport and the railways. On the West Sweden package's website you can read that the goal is to double the number of public transport journeys by 2025 compared to the 2006 travel. The West Sweden package includes several investments in, for example, new nodes, more bus lanes and longer platforms, as well as new traffic information systems. To create better accessibility, about 60 kilometres of new bus lanes are built along the access routes and in the centre of Gothenburg. When the train tunnel under Gothenburg – the west link, which we heard about here earlier – is completed, there will be new nodes in Gothenburg at the Central Station, at Korsvägen and at Haga. These relieve Drottningtorget and Brunnsparken and make the center less vulnerable to traffic disturbances. These are important investments to enable us to change the transport sector and to have a more sustainable transport situation. The west link is about 8 kilometres long railway for commuter and regional trains. The majority go through the central parts of the city in a tunnel. It has been a controversial project but is very important for us to have the opportunity to increase travel by rail. Gothenburg has so far been a so-called bag station, which has an ability to stop traffic and limit accessibility in the traffic system. The decision today, however, is only about congestion tax being levied also in the Marieholm tunnel in order to avoid that there should be a free road for car traffic. If the tunnel were not subject to the congestion tax, traffic would, of course, be larger and the revenue from the congestion tax would be reduced. It is estimated that revenues would be around 10 million lower than at present. Instead, with congestion taxes, tax revenues are expected to increase by SEK 15 million per year. From a fiscal point of view and from a state budget perspective, one must surely think that these are modest sums of money. However, in order to achieve the overall objectives of the congestion tax on both the environment and climate, accessibility and contribution to the financing of important infrastructure, it is important that the Marieholm tunnel is also subject to the congestion tax.
i-f1e166b123e01138-65	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to call for reservation 19 under paragraph 16, the organisational responsibility of young offenders. Others may distribute the gracs in general. Today's criminal policy is very much about images of how our society looks, how it is perceived and how it really is. Unfortunately, our images are also characterized by a more black and white character – monochrome and sometimes grey scales. But all too often it becomes a one and a zero. Sometimes when someone tries to step forward in the public debate and talk about, for example, young offenders and shootings, there is often a hot counterfire from the Twitter nobility. Lifting up the growing inequality, the underlying causes of integration and segregation problems, often leads to a loud opposition claiming to relativise. This is, of course, deeply sad in many different ways because the task of politics is precisely to deepen the debate and nuance the images. If you are looking for people who give a good and nuanced picture of, for example, juvenile delinquency, you will not rarely find them in our area police in the most affected areas. They usually give a wise and balanced picture that we do not always manage to meet in politics. We in this House have so often had a discussion that it is not a police issue or a criminal matter to face the enormous challenges that it poses when our young people shoot each other to death, rob or otherwise get into trouble – and above all create problems for others. In this context, it can be said that we do not always reach the concept of having two things in your head at the same time. Are our young people on a slide, from a meta-perspective? No, probably we have the most careful, sober, perhaps even conservative youth generation in a long time. They sit at home watching social media, they don't drink to the same extent as 20 years ago, they don't punch each other in the mouth outside the taverns anymore, but it's relatively quiet in many places. That picture must also be told. It is said that all generations are getting worse and that it was better before. There is an old factoid about a dialogue between Sokrates and Platon where they describe that young people do not have manners, do not rise up for the elderly and so on. It is a factoid; a highly incorrect quotation. However, there are stories from ancient Greece about how adults try to create regulations in different ways, not least in one of the dialogues between these two philosophers. Let me give you something here. The younger ones should observe a fitting silence in the presence of the elderly, rise up for them, leave them place, care for their parents, observe certain rules regarding hair cutting, clothing, footwear, whole behavior, and everything else. That is what Sokrates says to Platon. Since it is a dialogue, Platon, as the good student he is, answers the following: Yes, of course you are right. Sokrates then says: But it would be stupid to legislate on such a thing. Such legislation does not exist either, and no decrees in that way in words or writing would be permanent. Of course his obedient student says: Of course not. It is not a factoid but a pure translation from the Greek records. This means that what Sokrates says to Platon is that it is very much about standards and values. We in this House will not be able to resolve all the problems of pointed legislation or decisions in the area of fiscal policy on more police or prison places. Of course, we must also look at how we behave towards each other and what standards we follow in our relationships. These standards will be created in school, in comradeship, in the sports movement, eventually, perhaps also in the lodgements, if we hope to reintroduce universal military service, and of course they also occur in the family. There are a number of concrete issues to be addressed in the report. There is the question of youth courts. Furthermore, there is the issue that may have been most debated, namely the reduction of penalties for young people. It has been a journey for us Social Democrats, and if I am going to be a little self-critical, it is because we have been stuck in an approach to what prisons look and operate. When I began to take an interest in social policy and taught in the '80s and '90s, it was always said that prison is a school of crime. I usually say that the Swedish Prison Service is one of our Swedish authorities' most beautiful little jewels. There are many authorities who go on their knees or have mistakes and shortcomings, and this obviously also applies to the Prison Service, but it is, in an international perspective, a world-leading activity in which it is actually seen that the relapse rate is falling, which is extremely rare in other countries. You manage to keep the prisons drug-free. Activities are slowly but surely increasingly scientifically based on the programmes and training offered and held in the institutions. Prison is perhaps, in many ways, not a school in crime compared to being out on the street in these gang environments. There is also one aspect that punishment is punishment. It's one part of the crime policy toolbox. Here, however, these young people, including those serving a prison sentence, can be given the opportunity to complete basic education, i.e. complete primary school or receive vocational training. We need to build that perspective when we make a journey from having said blankly no to penalty reduction to trying to think about other tools to meet new challenges in the future. Everyone in this room has visited prisons. I visited half of the prisons and detention centres during the last parliamentary term, and I have to say that I was extremely impressed by the staff and activities of the prisons today. The challenges that exist and are real – although we can see that the crime rate among young people is not increasing in terms of reporting or vulnerability, even if the figure has risen slightly in the past year – we will tackle with the utmost effort. We will use all the tools in the toolbox that society and the rule of law have at their disposal, and we will never give up until we have a safe and good society for our young people too.
i-f1e166b123e01138-83	Madam President, I would like I won't be as philosophical as Petter Löberg. Since I'm a pimple from the beginning, I'm going to stick to reality. Today we are debating the motion report Young offenders. I request the approval of reservation 17. There is a very serious situation in Sweden when it comes to young criminals. Serious crime among young people requires a clearer and faster response from society. Social services must give priority to crime prevention so that fewer young people choose the path of crime. We Moderates want to commission an investigator to take a comprehensive approach to appropriate crime prevention measures. Young people under the age of 15 suspected of violent crime have increased by nearly 40 per cent since 2015. Youth robberies have increased sharply over several years. In 2019, muggings against young people increased by 31 per cent compared to 2018 from already high levels. In one year, they have increased by 31%. It is incredibly much – and very serious. Since 2014, youth robbery has increased by as much as 125 per cent – from 1,098 to 2,484. Often people under the age of 21 commit these juvenile robberies. In addition to these figures, there is a large number of darkness. Many young people simply do not dare to report because they are afraid of revenge. Madam President, I would like Recently, Regional Police Commissioner Carin Götblad presented a report on juvenile delinquency. It shows a frightening development. The report shows that violence is severe – violence to the head, kicks, gun threats and threats of killing, burning with lighters and stabbing with a food knife. The police's youth investigator in Haninge municipality reports that the robberies are often carried out by a group of perpetrators. They are masked and dressed in similar clothes so that they cannot be identified later. The police report that the robbers act like hardened criminals even though they are young. Not only are the robbers after things, but they want to humiliate the victim. One recent case was Liam. He was robbed, and then the robbers urinated on him. They urinated on the victim! This is not about social divides. It's about contempt for other people. It's about juvenile robbers who have no empathy for other people. Imagine the victim of the crime when he walks out on the street and suddenly gets surrounded by four five robbers who are masked. They put the knife on his neck, they take everything he has and they force him down on his knees. Then they urinate on him. It's so disgusting that I don't have words. I think of the victim and how his life is deteriorating and limited, perhaps forever. The young police in Haninge say: I can understand if the plaintiff is afraid and does not want to move on if there are not so much consequences for the offender. ..................................................... These juvenile delinquents must be stopped. They can't be turned around anymore. You simply have to put your hand to it. They're going off our streets. We Moderates have recently presented a package of measures against juvenile delinquency. Among other things, we want more young criminals to be forced into custody according to LVU. However, this will not be enough for young people who have committed serious crimes and who are at high risk of relapse. We want more of them arrested. We Moderates want to set up special juvenile detention centres for this. However, these proposals are not included in this report, so I am leaving them for the time being. In fact, I have no sympathy with the robbers who demean victims in this way. There is no excuse for social divides, poverty or other excuses. You just don't do that. Madam President, I would like We Moderates have many good proposals in this report. But I can't bring them all up, so I'll just mention a couple. Special youth courts should be set up to judge in LVU cases and in cases where children and young people under the age of 18 are charged with criminal offences. This is, of course, to make handling faster and safer. We also propose that the possibility be created to order curfews during the ongoing criminal proceedings during evenings and weekends. This should be combined with a ankle bracelet. The aim, of course, is to be able to break criminal behaviour quickly. Now it is so that young people who have committed quite serious crimes sometimes are not even questioned, but half an hour later they are out with their friends in the square and coffee. It doesn't give the right signal. Madam President, I would like At present, there is a penalty discount for young offenders between 18 and 20 years of age. An 18-year-old gets a 50% discount on his sentence, and a 20-year-old gets 25%. This is even though they are of age. We consider the Moderates to be completely wrong. We want to remove it completely. What the government wants is rather unclear. On the Social Democrats' website it says: People aged between 18 and 20 are now sentenced to shorter sentences. We believe that people who have turned 18 are adults and should be considered adults in the sense of the law. So it is on the Social Democrats' website today. After the gang talks, the government presented a proposal in its 34-point programme that would mean that in most cases the penalty discount would continue to apply. This is the point of the programme: abolish the penalty for young adults in the event of serious crime. The Youth Reduction Investigation's proposal is carried out with regard to repeated serious crime in which a person aged 18 to 20 who has previously been convicted of crimes where the minimum sentence is one year's imprisonment is to be sentenced for a new offence with a minimum sentence of two years' imprisonment. ..................................................... Then remember that the minimum penalty for robbery is one year in prison. The proposal in the 34-point programme thus means that a 20-year-old who has previously been convicted of several robberies and is again convicted of robbery will receive a penalty discount – for robbery after robbery. When we were going to adjust this report in the Committee on Justice, we would have an announcement that the penalty rebate should be abolished completely. But at the sitting, the Social Democrats changed their minds. They joined the Liberals' reservation, which abolishes the penalty rebate for repeat offenders. A few hours later, the Chairman of the Committee on Justice, the Social Democrat Lundh Sammeli, went out and informed the House that it had not changed its mind but stood by the 34-point programme. This is crazy. What do you mean? The 34-point programme therefore means that you can get a penalty discount for robbery after robbery because the minimum penalty is one year's imprisonment. However, according to the Liberals' reservation in the report, you do not get a penalty discount when you are a repeat offender. That's two completely different things. For a few years now, there has been a proposal for the abolition of the penalty rebate. The government has not made any proposals. That is why we have tabled a committee initiative on abolition. The initiative is on the table in the Committee on Justice and will be dealt with shortly. Wow! Time flies when you're happy, I started to say. An ax pick from 2019: 257 blasts and 320 shootings. Youth robbery has increased by 31 percent. Rape has increased by 6%. All this in a year. The government has failed miserably to fight crime. But it is not surprising when you have a prime minister who blames most of the Alliance's tax cuts. Those excuses are actually embarrassing. Sweden needs a new government, and we Moderates are ready. We're always on the side of victims. Finally, Madam President, back to the penalty rebate. I would like to know from Petter Löberg what applies now for the Social Democrats. Is that the 34-point program? I can see that Lundh Sammeli is not here. Is this the case, Petter Löberg, or is it the report that applies? And do you speak for the whole government, or do you speak for the Social Democrats in view of what is on your website? It must also be noted that the Green Party, which is the second government party, is not even here. They are not even on the list of speakers, so they apparently find juvenile delinquency unimportant. Or it is the case that the government parties disagree. Petter Löberg! What is it about – is it the 34-point programme, or is it this report? And is it the whole government or just the Social Democrats who speak?
i-f1e166b123e01138-119	Madam President, I would like I requested a reply, not to answer questions, but to ask questions. You described this robbery very painting, Ellen Juntti, and rounded off by saying that this is not how you do it. There we agree 100%. It is also punishable. For those kinds of deeds, we have severe punishment, and we shall have it. But isn't Member of Parliament Juntti interested in knowing why this act took place? That's my question.
i-f1e166b123e01138-122	Madam President, I would like Why they did it, the police are holding interviews and asking questions. The fact remains, you just don't do this. Social divides, poverty or whatever it may be don't matter. You don't do this. It cannot be explained away by having had a bad childhood or a poor childhood. You don't do this, and if you do it, you're supposed to have a punishment. But why won't Petter Löberg answer when it comes to the penalty discount? Is it still the 34-point programme that applies, as Lundh Sammeli said? Or is that what the Social Democrats' website says – that the penalty rebate should be abolished altogether? Or is that what the report says? Now, in fact, the government parties and the government must say what they want. These are three different proposals. What about the Social Democrats? What about the government?
i-f1e166b123e01138-124	Madam President, I would like The answer to that question will be given at the vote this afternoon. There is no doubt about that. It's fascinating that Ellen doesn't want to know the background to crime. This is one of the major systemic errors in Swedish criminal policy debate. You don't have the strength to think about how a person can go from being a child to becoming a hardened criminal. You don't have the energy to think about how normal people who in a positive way had dreams, ideas and thoughts about how they want their lives can be people who do deeds that could be part of a horror movie. These are terrible, criminal acts of which they should, of course, bear the consequences. In fact, we know the reasons for this. We know that there is a lack of school performance and failure at an early age. We know it's about different mental diagnoses. We know that it is also, not just a society that has been torn apart. This is fundamental research. At least since the 19th century, criminologists and sociologists have been aware that this is the background. If we are to take each other in hand in politics and solve this in real terms, it is not enough to just point the finger and come up with simple solutions. It is, to a greater extent, a question of building a society that does not make it a victim and that these crimes do not take place. This is done not only with finger pointing, but also with other tools: a good school, a good social service and support for parents and families in crisis.
i-f1e166b123e01138-128	Madam President, I would like First of all, I will respond to this by saying that we would not be able to see. I've been a cop for 30 years. I think I've seen most of it. I can see most of it, too. I think Petter Löberg missed what I started with. We Moderates want to commission an investigator to take a comprehensive approach to appropriate crime prevention measures. It's barely possible to say it more clearly than that. We want to prevent crime. That's the best part. But if you choose to still commit disgusting crimes, you'll get your punishment. Most people probably noticed that Petter Löberg didn't really want to answer this with the penalty discount. So it is still unclear. Is it, as Lundh Sammeli said, the 34-point programme that applies? As I understand it, he has not withdrawn it, even though he is chairman of the Committee on Justice. According to the Social Democrats' website, you want to remove it altogether, and in this report you say that it should be removed for repeat offenders. That's three different messages. The Social Democrats are in the government. You are to give clear information so that the Swedish people and all the people who live here know what applies. But you don't. You're rambling and giving three different messages. All right, let's see. You'll have to confess color at the vote this afternoon. I think Mr Petter Löberg, who is the representative of the government here, could clearly say what you really think, but he does not. The other government party, the Green Party, is not even here. Do they think juvenile delinquency is so unimportant that they're not even here? Or is there a real rift in government cooperation? I almost think so.
i-f1e166b123e01138-133	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. The report contains several announcements and many necessary proposals which are not part of the committee's proposal. I was going to spend my time focusing on things that especially need to be done to break the crime of young offenders. We Swedish democrats have been working for years to get rid of the youth discount. Today, a young person who is 18 years of age but not 21 years of age receives an automatic deduction of his or her sentence. The 18-year-old gets 50 percent of the sentence, and a 20-year-old gets three-quarters. This is only because they are under 21 years of age. It is not uncommon for the young person to also receive additional discounts due to personal circumstances, so-called mitigating circumstances. There are examples where an 18-year-old was sentenced for rape to two years in prison, but because of the discount system only received two months in prison. There are many young adults who, long before they are even 15 years of age, are caught up in a criminal life - style and have fallen into criminal gangs. In these cases, giving the young person a discount on the penalty becomes directly counterproductive. It will be a signal that the child's criminal lifestyle is not taken seriously enough. It requires society to mark directly against actions that will never be allowed. We cannot solve the escalating crime with more leisure centres and voluntary conversations. It has been over 40 years since we lowered the age of government from 21 to 18. Being an adult means several rights, but it also entails several obligations. Sometimes we in Sweden actually tend to forget about the latter part. To overlook obligations is not to care about-- it's actually the other way around. This issue has been pursued by the Swedish Democrats for a long time. Society needs to make it clear that there is no trial-on-crime, for which the Centers, Liberals and the Government have actively chosen to fight in their joint announcement. If you are an adult, you should be judged by your actions, and that applies to everyone. Even the first rape victim deserves redress. The first-time adult offenders must also face the consequences of their actions. For all parties and politicians who protect the victim's perspective, reasonable penalties, where legal persons do not get discounts, are important. It is provocative for victims of serious crimes by 17-, 18-, 19- and 20-year-olds that some of them even receive no punishment. Some 17 - year - olds have been sentenced for aggravated assault, but not to prison, but to youth service for between 35 and 70 hours. The criminal is out on the street again and can continue to commit new crimes. Madam President, I would like We can see that crime is falling lower and lower in the old age. Many of the young criminals today have become professionals long before they reach the age of 18. Younger people in alienation areas are used as minions for older criminals, and it is not uncommon for 15-, 16- and 17-year-olds to commit very serious crimes such as murder, assault and rape. The development of society that we are seeing today calls for increased opportunities for society to intervene against those younger and younger individuals who are at risk of being involved in criminal settings. Many professions have begun their criminal career long before they reach the age of 15. As it works today, the police have no authority to do anything when criminals are under 15 years of age. Instead, they are handed over to social authorities with no tangible consequences. An example is a case this weekend. It was a 14-year-old who engaged in pocket theft. The person was handed over to the social authority. There were 11 open cases, and the person was suspected of the same type of crime. The kid was arrested again later this weekend, suspected of a new pocket theft. The person was again handed over to the social authority without any consequence more than a voluntary call. What kind of signals does it give? According to the same principle as school grades at an early age acting as an important signal system when something is wrong, we should face and fight crime at a young age. Early reactions allow for the necessary measures. Anyone who quickly encounters a consequence of his actions tends to relate to this very consequence in the future. In order to be able to indicate at an early stage that criminal behaviour is not accepted on the part of society and that it leads to consequences, the Swedish Democrats therefore propose a reduced age of punishment. The age of the criminal authority needs to be revised. We must also be able to take young people's crime seriously. If you're old enough to commit serious crimes, you're old enough to face a consequence of your actions. Madam President, I would like There is talk of the need to improve schooling, to improve cooperation and to make society better at catching children on the run. There is talk of more police officers, stricter penalties for adults and children's rights in society. But when it comes to crime, that care is primarily directed at the criminals, not at the victims, who in many cases are children themselves. It should never be the case that a victim who gets kicked down, who gets beaten and who gets scars for life should be forced to face the offender shortly thereafter. Unfortunately, that is exactly what is happening in Sweden today, and that is something that we Swedish democrats will never accept. Those who accept this not only betray the victim and its relatives. They also betray all those people who risk becoming the next victim. Swedish legislation is outdated and not adapted to reality. Madam President, I would like A combination of the police's ongoing project on faster prosecution and the removal of the youth discount would have a good effect. Cooperation between authorities and the police and a functioning school are also crucial to reducing the recruitment of young criminals. Real consequences for real, fast prosecution, active work with collaboration between the actors who can really make a difference are key factors in the work to create a safer Sweden for all. I support all our reservations, but I only ask for reservation 15.
i-f1e166b123e01138-153	Madam President, I would like Anyone who has ever engaged in child rearing in some form knows that consistency and clarity are hard currency. It is often a challenge to keep a line as a parent and be clear about the rules that apply in our homes in all practical family situations, what is acceptable and where the limits are for how we behave towards each other. It is difficult for everyone, regardless of socio-economic status and wherever in the country we live. It may be easier with experience, but it is in any case a challenge even for the one who is best equipped to face the challenges of life. What if there are factors that circumcise that ability? You can yourself as a parent face major or minor problems on which we must also put energy: anxiety about the future and powerlessness in the face of exclusion and poverty. But none of this is really an excuse. Everyone is responsible for their actions, and parents are responsible for their children. However, any society that wants to be more secure does well to analyse carefully what we can do to support parents who need support and help provide our young people with the security that comes from knowing a clear system of rules during childhood. Each action has a consequence. A benevolent interpretation is that it is a misplaced benevolence to give our young people the freedom that we think they want. Other days I can feel that it is about laziness, that we do not have the energy to take a conflict, although we know that it would be necessary, that we do not speak up, although we have to understand that someone has to speak up. On this we must get better, all of us adults. We owe it to our young people, and we owe it to the future. This must not be misunderstood. To act, to say no, is to care. And if we care, we must also take measures that have that particular perspective. Too repressive measures risk strengthening the sense of exclusion, which in turn makes the way back to an honest, law-abiding and good life even longer. But there really are risks, too, very much if we do nothing. Between these two greats, justice policy should be directed at young offenders. The issue of young offenders thus extends beyond the scope of the report we are debating today, and it concerns a large number of other areas of preparation. When young offenders end up with the authorities that fall under the eye of our committee, it has often gone quite far. Breaking negative patterns as early as possible is enormously simpler and less costly. It is less costly in human suffering, of course, but actually also socio-economic. There is some research into how much is actually involved. A recent report states that a child who is not prevented from establishing a criminal lifestyle will have cost society about 80 million in his 40s. Research is a good basis for developing policies in all areas, and justice policy is no exception. And, Madam President, we must be better at using the knowledge that research gives us. We know quite well from research what leads a child to grow up to be an adult who commits crimes. It is primarily about economic and social exclusion, and it is about growing up and how the child works with others. The school and how to succeed or fail there becomes an important indicator of where a young person is going. The failure of coal is also the factor that has the greatest correlation with the development of crime. Basing our actions on what we can assume produces good results and choosing the measures that have the greatest safety-creating effect at the least cost, measured both in money and in other possible disadvantages, is the responsible approach of each legislator. For that to happen, we need to improve the quality of judicial work. The parliamentary situation we have and a long time of what I actually feel as a prudence and perhaps even a lack of interest from the government has led to a rather pervasive legal policy. There are certainly times when some people are guilty of trying to pick cheap political points on the natural and legitimate concerns that many feel about the development of society. When you do that, you take the focus from what must be the most important thing, to increase security. It puts the goal of people's security under its own goal of opinion success. I won't judge anyone. This is part of the conditions of democracy, and everyone is free to hold any debate as they please. But one should be aware that there may be a conflict of interests. I am convinced that a coherent legal policy in which the right action is taken against every problem is far more effective than the patchwork that has now become too much of a legal policy. At the same time, however, Madam President, many of the most essential measures that are now being implemented are an effect of the fact that others than the government have developed policy proposals and created political pressure for them. I'm sure the government has found that difficult. But if you claim to rule the country, you are also responsible for conducting a policy that is so good that it can be liked by a majority in parliament. The friends of the other alliance parties will stretch. The joint work that we have done for many years produced a long series of important proposals. I was often impressed by the skills that the Moderates, in particular, provided for this work. And I am proud of the operationality we were able to demonstrate when it came to getting the policy implemented. One example is one of the measures now on the way forward, youth monitoring. This is something that the Alliance proposed and was announced already in 2015. At first, we called it a holiday break-up with a anklet, but that corresponds largely to the proposal that now lies with the Law Council. Youth monitoring became part of the 34-point program against gang violence that resulted from cross-block talks during the early autumn of last year. And I think there is a key word in this particular: talks. I am convinced that constructive talks make justice policy better than glaring rhetoric. I am convinced that it will make Sweden more secure if we all take our best ideas with us and bump and wet them against each other in a benevolent spirit than if the legal debate is reduced to a political bat. Another important part of the 34-point programme is a security preparation, an issue that the Center Party has pushed hard in the gang talks and that will become a reality. On this point, the government is welcome to announce a delivery. This is not the only answer, but a security committee that includes all the parties in the Riksdag can be a central function in improving the quality of the security-building work. Something that has been talked about for years, and about which we have been announcing since the past, is the so-called youth discount that has also been mentioned here earlier today, that is, the general reduction in the length of the penalty for those between 18 and 21 years. This has now been investigated. Even if the investigator lands in that it would not have a huge security-enhancing effect and recommends that it not be implemented, there is still reason to do so, on the one hand, to mark the seriousness with which we view much of the serious crime, and on the other hand to incite dangerous criminals during a time that could otherwise become their most criminal. It is gratifying that today we can have a broad majority to implement this change. At the same time, we should be aware that this is a costly reform. More than a billion will be the price of total implementation. We must weigh this billion against other security-building measures, and I think it is wise to target resources where they are most needed. It is natural to implement the reform for the most serious crimes in the first place. Of course, I support our reservations. With the constructive spirit that I think characterises this report, I had intended not to make any claims, but I will do so with regard to reservation 14 in paragraph 10 on special courts for young people. It is an issue that we dealt with earlier in committee. We were then able to note that there is already a special system for dealing with criminal cases when the defendant is under 21 years old. So the options in this area will be something of an open door that does not need to be slammed in, especially in a situation where we need to focus our efforts on the greatest needs.
i-f1e166b123e01138-170	Madam President, I would like Among what we are debating today is a really good announcement that young people will have a plaintiff. If a child under the age of 15 today commits a crime against another child, the victim does not receive a plaintiff because the crime is investigated not by the police but by social services. This results, for example, in the fact that young girls who are victims of sexual crimes by young boys do not receive the support that a plaintiff can provide in explaining, for example, how the investigation of the crime should be conducted. The committee has made an announcement, based on the Left Party motion, that everyone should be able to get a plaintiff and that all victims should be able to get support in the legal process, and that is really good. What is not good at all, however, is to remove the penalty rebate and lock young people in long prison sentences. I have noticed that many feel that this feels good at the moment. But the parties that are in favour of this must then come up with proposals for what will happen when young 18-year-olds are locked in and then come out as criminal pros when they are 26 – 27 years old. What are the Moderates going to do? What plan do the Moderates have for these boys to get back into society after their long prison sentence? Is it the work line? Maybe they're going to be entrepreneurs? I know one thing they'll be able to build companies around, and that's crime. It'll be the only thing these guys have learned in life. There is one point that is highlighted in both research and knowledge from authorities: young people who are in long prison sentences become more criminals. It does not have the deterrent effect that many people think it should have. The penalty discount is available because young people are just young. The frontal lobe is not developed, and incapacitation at an early age damages the brain and psychosocial development. There are so many reasons. Logical arguments and research do not bite a Social Democratic government either, but only power and money work on a sosse. So I ask, how can you afford it? Removing the penalty discount costs over SEK 1 billion. Keeping a person locked up costs $1 million a year. Today, prisons and prisons are overcrowded, and the Prison Service requires more resources. The courts can barely hold detention proceedings. Where is the money to build the prisons we're going to fill with young people? Which schools are to be closed down, and which hospitals are to get fewer nurses so that we can afford to build more prisons? Madam President, I would like It is between the ages of 18 and 20 that the absolute highest levels of prosecution take place. It is a pattern that has remained unchanged over time. The most important lesson about crime is that it decreases as the person grows older. Removing various forms of penalty rebate will cause the young boys from vulnerable areas to be cemented in crime. Säpo warns that young people will be exposed to violent extremism and risk radicalisation in prisons. The Bar Association finds it extremely inappropriate to remove the penalty discount. In the investigation by the Prosecutor General Petra Lund, the Youth Reduction Investigation, it says: ..................................................... I want to make it clear that this is not a question of upbringing and getting better. This is class politics. Class is the reason a person falls into criminal behavior. It is about the lack of education, mental health and the ability to enter the labour market as an adult. That is no excuse for crime and no excuse for any criminal act at all, but every politician must understand the root causes of crime in society. Those who try to force the debate to be about the fact that the police have no authority to intervene against young people are lying. Those who say that the punishment is not sufficiently severe and that is why people commit crimes do not have an eye on the situation. To dare to fight crime before crime is committed is real politics. That is to be courageous in today's political debate. Here, in principle, all political parties duck out of their responsibilities when the only political proposal they make when it comes to stopping young people's crime is to extend their punishment. I'm in favour of reservation 20.
i-f1e166b123e01138-184	Madam President, I would like I was not surprised by what Linda Snecker said in her speech because the Left Party always blames everything on social divides and poverty. That was the case today. The Left Party often stands on the side of criminals, not on the side of victims. We are often told that punishment has no effect. However, the Left Party is inconsistent, because sometimes it helps with high penalties and sometimes absolutely not. When it comes to young offenders, it obviously does not help at all, but in the case of sexual offences, the penalties are important and have a positive effect. How does the Left Party reason here? Why does longer punishment help in sexual crimes but not in juvenile crimes? Linda Snecker says that 18-year-olds, who are of age, become hardened criminals in prison. But as I said in my speech, the young police in Haninge say that the robbers act like hardened criminals even though they are young. So they are hardened even before they turn 18, so the race is probably over. The police also say that the robbers can get youth service for a number of hours and that they can understand that the plaintiffs are afraid and do not want to move on when there are no major consequences for the perpetrators. There must be consequences, and the victim must be restored.
i-f1e166b123e01138-191	Madam President, I would like It is distressing to hear that a former police officer has not grasped what criminal society looks like. Ellen Juntti has worked as a police officer for 30 years and says about 14-year-old children who commit terrible criminal acts that there is no excuse and that the race is already over. This says all about the policy of the Moderates. You have no understanding of why young people fall into criminal behaviour, and you don't care either. It is possible to point out three children in each class that will not go well for, for we already see this at the BVC, in preschool class and later in secondary school. But the Moderates do not want to help these young ones become law-abiding adults, but the Moderates want to lock them up for long sentences. It will create more victims. Of course, victims of crime should receive redress, but Moderate policies create more victims because young criminals do not get help in time to stop their criminal behaviour. Moderate policies create more victims and more insecurity in society for Moderates do not prevent and do not grab young people until it is too late. It's distressing to hear the Moderate Ellen Juntti say that for a 14-year-old, the race is already over. With such a policy, the Moderates are not a government-supporting party.
i-f1e166b123e01138-195	Madam President, I would like They're already hardened at a young age, and that's what I meant when I said the race was over. I didn't mean it's forever. Then Linda Westerlund Snecker has missed what Petter Löberg missed, namely that we Moderates want to give an investigator the task of taking a concerted approach to appropriate crime prevention measures. So we want an investigation that looks at everything that can be prevented. More than that, this cannot be made clear. It is absolutely not true that we do not want to prevent. Many in the Prison Service have said that prison sentences are too short, for example, there is no time to start and complete a treatment programme. If you're in prison, you have time to start and complete treatment programs. You also have time to get vocational training so that you can hopefully get a job when you get out, instead of continuing to commit crimes. It's actually good to have this. If you choose the line of work instead of the course of crime, I am happy, because I think everyone who can work, especially criminals. I think it is good that they work instead of committing crimes.
i-f1e166b123e01138-198	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that the Moderates have only now come to the conclusion that they want to investigate what could be different crime prevention measures. I can give you some concrete tips: to eliminate economic inequality in society, to invest in the existence of a reasonable number of teachers and staff at school, and to upgrade social services so that social secretaries can make proper efforts at an early age for children. These are three concrete things that the Moderates do not need to investigate in any way. Instead, you can change your policy, Ellen Juntti, so that you invest in young people getting a proper education and can get a job and a place to live when they grow up. This can be done instead of reducing taxes on the rich, creating gaps, increasing crime, which increases social insecurity. That's what the Moderates should do. We're not going to have any more victims. The only way we can stop crime is to ensure that young people do not fall into criminal behaviour and that no kid is forgotten, no matter where you come from – a vulnerable area or a rich area. No matter where you come from in the community, where you live or what conditions you have, each kid should have the same conditions. Here the Moderates do not do a thing to make sure that we do not forget any kid at all. I think it becomes clear when Ellen Juntti starts talking about the education that young people should be given in prisons. It is great that the Moderates, together with the Left Party, should ensure that there is a right to education in the prisons, for this opportunity has been reduced, but the Moderates do not do a thing to rearrange the school so that the kids do not end up in prison at all. Then you're out on a bike. If we are to get redress for every victim, we must prevent crime from happening at all, because we should not have more victims. This is only done with prevention.
i-f1e166b123e01138-203	Madam President, I would like One of the most important tasks of society is to contribute to the positive growth and development of children and young people. The area we are now dealing with, young offenders, is an area that is an important part of helping young people find the right path in life. Man is in need of fellowship with others and functioning relationships in order to feel good and be able to develop. The most basic form of community is the family, where people meet across generational boundaries in love and trust. This insight is a cornerstone for us Christian Democrats. Every human being is unique and valuable in itself. But alone is not strong, but it is with others that we grow as people. A society based on community and trust depends on people feeling safe in everyday life. Crime must therefore both be combated and prevented. When it comes to the latter, the family is an invaluable resource. The role of the family in raising and leading young people cannot be stressed enough. Research from the Crime Prevention Council shows that children who grow up with poor relationships with their parents are more likely to end up in crime. A strong relationship with parents therefore has a preventive effect and reduces the risk of children and young people being attracted to criminal settings. Every human being is responsible for his actions. Criminal acts cannot be reduced to either an upbringing or a social environment. A supportive family policy is one of the most important efforts to minimise the risk of a young person falling into the wrong circles with criminality and crime as a result. Good standards and values can be transferred between generations and therefore parental responsibility needs to be strengthened. Madam President, I would like Preventing crime and early detection of children and young people at risk of crime is of paramount importance. To achieve this, we need a policy that has a holistic approach to children and young people. We need a supportive family policy, a good school, an investment in young people's growing-up environment, a thorough crime prevention work and an offensive criminal policy. Madam President, I would like A majority in the committee supports five announcements which in various ways support the prevention of crime against young offenders. The proposals are moving in the right direction, but, as we see it, the announcements do not reach the end. This mainly concerns the issue of penalties for young offenders. In December 2018, the report on the abolition of the penalty discount for young people was presented. It has since been out for a consultation, and the answers were presented in 2019. The government has also been out in the debate saying that it should be abolished. Yet nothing practical has happened to date. It was only in connection with the gang talks that the government opened up to change the youth discount. Unfortunately, the proposal that is now under way is being put forward too thinly, and this was a contributing factor in the fact that the Christian Democrats left the talks. The government's proposal seems to mean that the youth reduction should only be abolished for those who repeatedly commit serious crimes. In practice, this means that no more than one per cent of those who are prosecuted and receive youth discounts will be included. At the same time, more and more young people are committing serious crimes, and sanctions against this are far too weak. We want to see the youth rebate abolished for real. Clearly, much more needs to be done to tackle young criminals. One of the reasons why youths are being pressured to commit serious crimes is that they receive considerably lower penalties than adults. The penalty rebate for legal persons must be changed and abolished. Our society believes that when you are 18 years old you are of age enough to get a driving licence and to decide who should be allowed to sit here and make laws. In my view, it is time we saw the legal and criminal liability of the 18-year-old. In addition to punitive measures, a number of measures are needed in the social field. The Christian Democrats have proposed a billion-dollar investment in social action against crime. We propose, among other things, a national emergency social emergency services that should be able to be deployed in particularly vulnerable places, such as an area that is about to be put on the police list of vulnerable areas. Then a crisis social worker can make a targeted but sustained effort. Madam President, I would like We have a collaborative model where school, social office, police and leisure work together. It's called SSPF. The aim is to prevent children from entering or continuing with criminal behaviour or drug abuse. By pooling and coordinating resources around children, society should act quickly and create common solutions. Resources around children means both providing support to the child's family and the professional network seeing how to work to break a negative pattern. The SPF is in several parts of the country today. The work can look a little different, as can the allocation of resources. We Christian Democrats therefore propose that funds should be used to encourage SSPF cooperation in more places and deepen where it is already under way. Madam President, I would like A key factor for effective prevention is that the various actors who meet young people at risk can engage in dialogue and exchange information about them. Today, confidentiality legislation is interpreted differently in different municipalities. The Christian Democrats want to reform the current legislation in order to clarify the confidentiality rules and clarify them in order to facilitate cooperation. Concerns about making mistakes must not prevent different authorities from doing everything possible to get a youth to leave or not to end up in a criminal environment. An amended legislation on confidentiality would facilitate interaction with suspected criminals and would also facilitate the work of children who are victims of crime within the framework of children's houses. Madam President, I would like On this basis, I would like to endorse reservation 5 concerning the evaluation of confidentiality rules. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats, together with those parties who so wish, will continue to act during this term of office with further proposals in the important work of creating a safer Sweden and also finding ways of contributing to the positive growth and development of children and young people, where we prevent and counteract in various ways the taking of a criminal path in life.
i-f1e166b123e01138-220	Madam President, I would like I am in favour of reservation 9, which is that we need to investigate more crimes, even if the perpetrator is under 15 years of age, in order to provide a good basis for the social services to take important and proper measures to prevent new and continued crime. We have now debated this scourge and this misery which destroys the lives of so many young people so early, that is, crime. I think many points have been made here. No one is born a criminal, but you get into situations when you are very young, careless and the brain is not fully developed. But you end up in misery, and no one gets involved. There are no parents who stand and explain to this young person that what he or she is doing is unacceptable, but this must continue. I also think that there has been a well-founded argument as to why it is too lax today and that there are too few consequences of the actions that young people carry out. Katja Nyberg from the Swedish Democrats mentioned examples of how the police pick up young people on the street. But they come out quickly and continue their crime. Of course, as long as this continues, the signal is that nothing is happening. This is about children and young people who reasonably have a rather weak parental support at home, and they probably have a companionship that is anything but positive. We know that crime is due to the lack of standards and absent adult guardians who have checked out – the only thing they check in on is to collect the child benefit. They're struggling, but they may not have the capacity. It can be psychological problems, addictions and a host of environments that cause young people today to find themselves in terrible situations. When parents, regardless of this misery and this mental ice age, fail to carry out their mission and are not capable, someone else must intervene. Then the public must intervene, and that is what we are discussing. What should we do, and how should we react? Then there is one clear message on the part of the Liberals: earlier and clearer. In fact, we have another message, and that is that school is the key. For us liberals, it is absolutely crucial that young people leave school with sufficient results to get on with their lives. The efforts we have made in recent years to renovate the school are now starting to produce results. I think Johan Hedin from the Center Party was into it in a nice way when he showed that the link between successful schooling and the absence of crime is a connection that everyone here should take on board. That's for granted. But, Madam President, what are we going to do if there are still crimes? Then we have different entrances. One is that efforts must be made sooner and more clearly. We've been pointing to social services. We from the Liberals are also pleased that the National Board of Institutional Affairs is now being strengthened, which now allows more municipalities to intervene against young people under duress and say that it is not okay and that it is about to blow the pipe. These young people are not of criminal age, but we see that it is a rather inappropriate environment when you rob, engage in violence in various forms, do drugs and run the risk of ending up in an environment of serious organised crime. I mentioned that we need to investigate more in order to be able to understand what has happened. We think that something needs to be done about confidentiality. It was not so long ago that I met police officers in Farsta who told me that it is still the case that they are allowed to go out when to tell about what is happening in conjunction with social services. We have been talking about this for so long. I suppose it's just to delete this confidentiality clause. What's the problem? Do you think the police are going to abuse this in any way? But the police need to know what it looks like at Kalle's or Ahmed's house when they drive home the same kid from some subway station every night week after week when the kid hangs there. Then the police must know what the problem is at home. But you can't tell me that because it's the privacy of social services. It's biting yourself in the tail. We also point out that there is a need to strengthen a real inter-mediary obligation so that we can really intervene. Today it is still the case in Sweden, the country of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, that parents have the right to say no. Then there is only total forced action. It will often be too long before there is a clear reaction. We Liberals welcome the commitment to weekend separation. We have been talking about this for almost 20 years here in Parliament. Now we see that this youth monitoring, which is under the custody of the penitentiary, is a step forward. I think we need to look at it so that we have a more uniform application and that it becomes more quality. As several speakers have previously pointed out, prison services are in many ways a role model in Sweden. I don't want anyone to end up there, but you make your own choice. And if you end up there, it's a way to get better out there and be rehabilitated. They will be able to absorb this with young criminals as well. Madam President, I would like Finally, there is the issue of penalty rebates. For liberals, it is not very strange to take into account talent, maturity and other circumstances when measuring a penalty. But the automation that is now built into the system must be removed. We think it is important that this should happen. The Liberals were therefore extremely pleased when, as it were, the Social Democrats sobered up at a committee meeting and said that they would endorse this and support the Liberals' proposals. They agreed to our exercise. We now have a clear text in the report that automatic penalty rebates should now be removed. We think it is important to look at this in the case of repeat offenders. For it is clear that a young person who is on sports break in Åre and gets into a fight is not a person who needs to be locked up immediately, but one can have a forgiving attitude toward young people. But I also understand other people who say that if you're grown up enough to commit a crime, you should take your full punishment. But it is the automaticity of this that must be removed. It's about people who come back in crime, and it's always discounts. It is totally unreasonable that it is being applied today. I turn to the Social Democrats. We have a committee meeting on Thursday, and there is another majority. Will the Social Democrats stand by their opinion, which is now included in the report? This is an announcement by the Social Democrats. Is there a clear link between the Social Democrats in Parliament and the Social Democrats in the government? I hope that's the case. I used some funny words sober up. But it is clear that we need to introduce drug testing in committee if you Social Democrats support motions hip as happy and then do not apply. Then it must be a consequence. I demand consistency for young people who commit crimes. I am also calling on the liberal side for consistency for social democrats who change their minds at the meeting.
i-f1e166b123e01138-234	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Justice on terrorism. I would like to begin by pointing out that we are, of course, in favour of both our reservations, but I am in favour of reservation 9. Otherwise, we support the committee's report. Madam President, I would like In the run-up to today's debate, I looked through my speech from last year's debate. I began this speech with a list of cities and places affected by terrorist atrocities. The list was by no means a complete list but should be seen as some examples: New York, Nairobi, Brussels, Stockholm, Utøya, Christchurch and Sri Lanka. A few weeks ago another place name was added to the line – Hanau. Nine people were murdered when the terrorist indiscriminately shot into two waterpipe cafes. According to Der Spiegel, the victims were between 21 and 44 years old. Six more people were injured, one of which was serious. Germany's Minister for the Interior, Horst Seehofer, commented on the fact that it was a clearly racist-motivated terrorist attack. förbundskansler Merkel stated: Racism is a poison. Hate is a poison. That poison is in our society. Madam President, I would like Democratic society must make full use of its power and do everything possible to combat terrorism. This must apply whether it is right-wing or Islamic terrorism. This must apply regardless of whether the terrorist is Anders or Rakhmat. And that must be true no matter where in the world a terrorist is born. We democrats must stand up for what the terrorists hate most, namely our open and democratic model of society. We shall stand up for freedom of speech and religion, we shall stand up for the equal value of all people and we shall stand up for equality and LGBTQ rights. In these matters, we must simply never bow down. Madam President, I would like Sometimes we hear the expression that we need to talk about the pink elephant in the room. After all, it is a figurative expression of something that is tangible to all the people in a group but that is not talked about. On the occasion of the Hanau terrorist attack, it is more justified to talk about the brown elephant in the room. To play with the idea, Madam President, that after the terrible terrorist acts in Brussels and Paris, for example, we could have read in a fictitious Facebook group called Islam and the Prophet Muhammed's friends that an Omar wrote, do the same! "That a Mustafa wrote" "Beautiful when people sit up" "or that a Muhammed wrote" This is just the beginning." So, how'd the tone go? Madam President, I would like Now, as I said, this was a fictitious Facebook group. However, I was brought to my attention by Aktuellt Focus on the Group of Swedish Democrats and Jimmie Åkesson's loyal friends. In close connection with the Hanau incident, we could read the following comments. Igge wrote: This is only the beginning of what is to come.
i-6xzMoBz7JjLRtS4TGhCiFw	Lovely when people sit up against the inwards, just waiting for it in Sweden, get to see the Viking blood flow. Åsmund wrote: Where is the Swedish rage? Do the same. How many similar contributions do Madam President think I have found in Facebook groups that claim to support the Social Democrats and Stefan Löfven? How many have I found in groups that claim to support the Moderates and Ulf Kristersson? How many have I found in groups that support the Center Party and Annie Lööf? Why is this the case, Madam President? The answer to that question is the brown elephant in the room. Madam President, I would like Radicalisation does not happen overnight, and it does not happen in a vacuum. The social debate has an impact. Social debaters influence, religious role models influence and political representatives influence. As Angela Merkel notes, racism and hatred are a poison. It is a poison that results in murder, a poison that results in terror and a poison that we must fight with the full power of open society. Madam President, I would like Finally, I will give a brief explanation of our reservations. As regards reservation 9 on a review of confidentiality legislation, it is our view that effective cooperation between authorities is a prerequisite for successful work against terrorism and that effective exchange of information is an important part of this. However, as the report shows, work is under way to improve the possibility for authorities to exchange information. Regarding reservation 12 on the care of returnees, work is ongoing to develop an agency-wide national defector programme to be reported by 1 December 2020. A national exit programme shall also be introduced. We note that considerable efforts are currently being made to combat violent extremism in various ways and that this work also involves so-called returnees. In our opinion, therefore, there is no reason for Parliament to make the announcements requested by the motionaries.
i-f1e166b123e01138-248	Madam President, I would like The committee report being debated today deals with a large number of proposals from the general period of exercise, and they concern the area of terrorism. These are issues of great importance for safety and security both in Sweden and in our surrounding world. Terrorism is an attack on our entire society. It spreads fear and fear. Ultimately, it attacks our way of life, transparency and democracy. Terrorism therefore needs to be vigorously combated wherever it shows its face. Terrorism is not a new phenomenon in Europe, but it has spread quite differently over the last few decades and is therefore a major threat to our security. Europe has suffered several serious terrorist acts in recent years. According to a compilation by Europol, 130 terrorist acts were carried out or interrupted in Europe in 2018. The attack on Drottninggatan 2017 shows that the threat of terrorism is real also in Sweden. The Swedish terrorist threat level remains elevated, and there is a risk of further attacks. The main terrorist threat to Sweden is likely to come from Islamic-motivated terrorism, although it is important to also take terrorist threats from the white power environment and the autonomous environment very seriously. During the years 2012 – 2016 around 300 people left Sweden to join violent groups in Syria and Iraq. Sweden is the country that, next to Belgium, has the highest number of people who have joined IS, in terms of population. There is reason to look very seriously at the development of both IS travellers returning to Sweden and the recruitment of radicalized people who already live in Sweden. According to the National Centre for Threat Assessment, there are individuals both in Sweden and abroad who consider terrorist attacks against targets in Sweden as legitimate and who have both intention and ability to carry out attacks. Madam President, I would like We Moderates have contributed to two agreements against terrorism, 2015 and 2017. We have agreed across party boundaries on important initiatives to strengthen Sweden's security. Unfortunately, more than four years after the first agreement, we note that the government has not given sufficient priority to implementing the measures agreed. For example, there is still a lack of opportunities for enhanced control of persons who pose security threats. Clearer rules on confidentiality between the police and the municipalities are not in place, nor are they more effective penalties for terrorist offences. Earlier this year, the Riksdag decided to ban association with terrorist organisations, but the urgent issue of banning participation in terrorist organisations is also being put on hold. It has been known since spring 2019 that a broad criminalisation of participation in a terrorist organisation is not considered compatible with the form of government. Fundamental changes require thorough investigation and careful consideration. It is all the more important, then, that the work can begin as a matter of urgency. With the government's prudence in this matter, there is a clear risk that a ban on participation in terrorist organisations will not be implemented until after the 2026 elections, taking into account the constitutional changes that need to be implemented. Madam President, I would like We didn't have to wait that long. With more urgent action by the government, it would have been possible to have a ban on participation in terrorist organisations on the ground even after the 2022 elections. The committee proposes two announcements to the government. It is a matter of the Government taking the initiative to review the confidentiality legislation to ensure that the Swedish Security Service has sufficient direct access to the Migration Agency's asylum system. It is also a question of increasing the possibility of exchanging information between authorities in order to prevent crime. The committee also proposes that the government should develop national guidelines for dealing with returnees, which should, among other things, enable returnees to be called for questioning. We also have seven reservations in the report. We propose more stringent penalties for certain offences in the field of terrorism. Today, the level of penalties for certain offences is unreasonably low, and the scale of penalties does not reflect the seriousness of the crime. The fact that the terrorist investigation has made proposals for certain punitive measures is not a reason why the Parliament should refrain from giving the government an announcement of the need for punitive measures. We want to introduce a ban on public calls for terrorism and a ban on having terrorist instructions. A forthcoming decision prohibiting participation in terrorist organisations should also include a ban on participation in other violent organisations. We see a need to deepen cooperation against terrorism within the EU in various ways, for example through joint action for the prosecution of IS terrorists who have returned from Iraq and Syria. Madam President, I would like Depending on developments in the outside world, the level of terrorist threat can rapidly deteriorate further. It is therefore important that there is effective and comprehensive Swedish legislation in place that can help prevent, prevent and prosecute terrorist acts. It is therefore serious that, despite two cross-party agreements, the government is unable to bring about the necessary new legislation more quickly. Finally, Madam President, I would, of course, like to support the two statements made by the committee, namely paragraphs 7 and 10, but also reservations 14 and 18.
i-f1e166b123e01138-263	Madam President, I would like We are debating terrorism today. As I have said before in this House, it is not an undebated subject for the Committee on Justice or, for that matter, for the Swedish Parliament. Sweden is one of the countries that have had serious terrorist acts, terrorist crimes and terrorist events, not least on Drottninggatan 2017. We have also had a slow government, unlike many other countries in Europe where many measures have been taken that we have not yet taken in Sweden. The report contains two announcements to the government. One of them concerns precisely the possibility for the Swedish Security Service to have sufficient direct access to the Migration Agency's asylum register. It may seem to be a small issue in this context as it is based on the 2015– 2016 migration flows to Sweden, and it was also in 2015 that the Swedish Security Service expressed this need in view of the high pressure on Sweden at that time. The Swedish Democrats were exercising on this matter, and in 2017 the Social Democrats voted against the introduction of precisely the possibility of ensuring by law that the Swedish Security Service has the possibility of direct access to asylum registers from the Migration Agency. The justification was that this was investigated by the authorities' legal departments. Now we have an announcement on the ground, and the government refers to working on producing such a proposal. In this report, too, this shows a slowness on the part of the government. In every report we have had in this House during this and the previous parliamentary term, we have had to point out the slowness. We have had to point out that there is a lack of concrete action and momentum from the Red-Green Government in order to produce the necessary legislation that can, in time, curb the problems we see with growing terrorism. None of those who have travelled to Syria and Iraq can be prosecuted for participating crimes because we do not – hear and be amazed – have the classification of participating crimes in place in Sweden! Many other countries have already had it for many years. Many other countries have already sentenced people to participate in terrorist organisations when they have travelled to Syria and Iraq. But in Sweden we sit on our hands and still have no team in place even though it has been called for. Sweden has had the most IS passengers per capita throughout Europe, and we still do not have the classification of participating crimes on site in Sweden. It is the word slowness that sums up the red-green government when it comes to the work against terrorism. We have another announcement, which is about ensuring that returnees can be called to interrogation with the Security Service. Today, this is not binding, but voluntary talks can be held with the Security Service if you have been in terror-controlled areas in Syria and Iraq. That's what it looks like. But we have an announcement that it should be a requirement to have these talks with the Security Service. The Swedish democrats want to go even further and have a reservation in the report that they should be able to arrest all individuals who come back from terror-controlled areas. This should enable them to be investigated for potential crimes that they have been able to participate in or carry out themselves. This opportunity is lacking because we have a slow red-green government and a government that opposes many current proposals. Madam President, I would like Joakim Sandell lifts in the debate the brown elephant in the room. As proof of some kind of thesis, he refers to a forum that is hardly known to anyone in this room besides Joakim Sandell. Certainly there are very serious calls, according to information that I do not doubt. These are calls for acts of terrorism and support and justification for acts of terrorism. These are serious things, according to the Swedish Democrats. But what do the Social Democrats think? In the report we have two reservations from the Swedish Democrats. One is that public calls for terrorism should be criminalised. The Social Democrats vote 'no'. The second concerns the justification of acts of terror. The Social Democrats vote 'no'. What they say in the pulpit about serious acts that they condemn and that they, indirectly or directly, blame the Swedish Democrats for is something that the Swedish Democrats want to criminalise. But the Social Democrats are voting against this. We would have to lift another elephant in this room, and that's the useless elephant. The useless and late elephant in the room is certainly not an elephant. Everybody knows it's the red-green government I'm talking about, right? That's what it looks like. One issue which is outside the report but which is important and urgent is the issue of citizenship, which I would have liked to have raised in the report and debated more broadly. I would also like to have a vote on the issue. Imagine a Uzbek citizen who has usurped Swedish citizenship, committed serious terrorist crimes and retained both citizenships – the Swedish and the Uzbek. Why should this person retain Swedish citizenship when he poses a threat to the security of our kingdom? Why should he retain his Swedish citizenship, and why should Swedish taxpayers be forced to support those who pose a threat of terror and who are citizens of other countries? For the Swedish Democrats, this has been a crystal clear question since 2015 when we have strongly voted on it here in the Swedish Parliament. We have also had wider support on this issue from several other parties. But listen and be amazed – none of these parties are in the government! The Red-Green Government blindly defends the right of these individuals to retain their Swedish citizenship and continues to pose a threat to Swedish citizens in our country and may even be supported by Swedish taxpayers. There we have the Red-Green Government's contribution to the work of terror. Let me say that we are not ashamed to call the red-green government the useless elephant in the room. However, as I said, this is beyond this report and this debate. Finally, I would like to endorse reservation 13 on the detention of returnees.
i-f1e166b123e01138-279	Madam President, I would like We all have memories. Stockholm, 7 April 2017. I was in a bus between Örebro and Nora. The horror and the gurney got in the bus. We all remember Paris, Copenhagen, Nice, Brussels, Berlin, Manchester, London and many more. Not to mention nine students. We all know exactly what we did when that message came. It was the occasion when the word implosion at least got a new meaning for me, when Twin Towers collapsed from the inside out. Or Ut ø ya, when we sat benched in front of the TV on a summer day and horrifiedly followed developments. We remember that IS has put terror in a whole world and committed insane acts around the world, not least in Syria. All of this scares us. A friend of mine has said: Making laws when you're afraid is a bit like going shopping when you're hungry. You come home with a lot of things that you didn't really want. That is the whole purpose of terrorism: to incite fear, indiscriminately and ruthlessly. It's supposed to happen to innocent people. Anyone guilty of this kind of crime deserves nothing more than a lifelong separation from society, regardless of what motive they have considered themselves to have and what justification they think they have. We feel contempt-- we have to admit it. However, Madam President, we still need to pull ourselves together and deal with justice policy responsibly, especially the part of the justice policy that is going to hit terrorism. One way is to ensure that it is based on broad agreements between parties. In the fight against terrorism, we must work together and stand united. The Center Party has on several occasions entered into agreements with other parties to step up its efforts to counter terrorism and strengthen our ability to withstand possible future terrorist attacks. Much has been done – some are not, and for this the government deserves criticism. However, I would like to stress the importance of the fact that we still have good talks and broad agreements on combating terrorism in the future. It is only then that we become strong, partly because the proposals are well established by many, partly because they are more sustainable over time. The law enforcement authorities have clearer rules of the game that they can adapt their law enforcement to make it as effective as possible and can hold over time and over elections. Madam President, I would like We have so far tightened the laws on funding and training aimed at terror. We've made it possible for serious data breach to be seen as a terrorist offence. We have criminalised dealings with terrorist organisations on several fronts – in terms of dealing with weapons, means of transport and rental of premises, in terms of calling for and recruiting for terrorist activities, in terms of travelling abroad to associate with terrorist organisations or in terms of financing and preparing for such trips. But more needs to be done, as shown in the report on which we have a position today, where almost exclusively reference is made to ongoing investigative work and proposals prepared by the government. Many suggestions are good – but they are too late, to be said. I will mention some important measures that are under way. There is a proposal for consideration on coherent terrorism legislation. Several laws are merged into one, with punitive measures, including criminalisation of public calls and training for terrorism. Madam President, I would like A key point for combating terrorism is cooperation between authorities. Today it is easier for Säpo and the Swedish Armed Forces regarding, for example, electronic direct access. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority works with several authorities against money laundering and financing. Another very important investigation was presented in 2018, Exchange of information in the field of counter-terrorism cooperation. It proposes a relaxation of the confidentiality rules between the police, social services and health services. The investigation has been reviewed and is reportedly prepared by the Government. In addition, the Crime Prevention Council has been tasked with examining the need for collaboration with additional actors. We look forward to this coming to Parliament's table as soon as possible. The Riksdag has previously announced the importance of knowledge and preparedness among municipalities about defectors. The report reads about a lot of measures taken by the government in budget and regulatory letters. The question is, is that enough? It remains to be seen. Together, we will follow developments very closely. The same applies to the issue of a government-wide national defector program, for which the Center Party has long fought. This was decided only last year. We'll see the results and how it's going to be set up this year. Together with the penalties that are decided and proposed to increase, we may finally have a fairly comprehensive programme to follow up, among other things, returnees. If that's not enough, we'll have to be on our toes, come up with new proposals and shoot the government in front of us. We'll have to follow up. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say a few words about crimes of participation versus crimes involving violent or terrorist organisations. As I said earlier from this speaker's seat, it is both a matter of course and a constitutionally tricky issue. It is rarely we citizens need to reflect on whether the decisions taken politically lead to a breach of the Constitution. Of course, we think that all activities an individual chooses to do that lead to terrorism should be criminalised. The fact that this can ultimately lead to a constitutional change is not as easy to discuss. The experience from Örebro when IS-returners came back was the lack of stringent possibilities for exchange of information between Säpo, the police and the municipality to prevent, first, second, prosecution on returning home. It is therefore important to first and finally get the measures proposed in the investigation Exchange of information on counter-terrorism cooperation, as well as to see the results of Brå's mission on the further need for cooperation between more authorities. And, Madam President, we are not content with less than the best. This is about time. Our good representatives in the municipalities need and deserve good proposals and good measures to use. However, non-forty proposals for the criminalisation of participation in terrorist organisations need to continue to be investigated and are a matter of constitutional amendment. We look forward to and attach great importance to the parliamentary committee that has been decided. Madam President, I would like I support all the reservations expressed by the Center Party, but I only support reservation 12 and reservation 18.
i-f1e166b123e01138-299	Madam President, I would like Terrorism is a major threat to democracy and all of us who want to live in a free society. In violent environments, one does not want feminists, environmentalists, LGBT people, forest crumbs and all the rest of us to live in freedom. Violent extremism stands for a caricature of what happens when a male violent culture is allowed to ravage freely and unhinderedly use its means of power. The vast majority of the debate and legislation has so far focused on violent Islamist extremism. It's no wonder because IS/ Daish a few years ago was a big and real threat. But the caliphate has fallen apart. IS/ Daish is no longer the great threat it previously was. The terrorist threat, on the other hand, is no less for it. The violent white power environment lives and thrives. The NMR demonstrated both in Ludvika and in Kungälv on May 1st, which is the workers' festival day. Several terrorist acts in the United States and Canada have been directed directly at women and carried out by the Incel movement. According to Säpo, this business is also located in Sweden and constitutes a security threat. It is lonely men who live in so-called involuntary celibacy driven by hatred of women and society at large. Through the internet forum, hatred and radicalisation grow to an extreme right-wing violence-promoting extremism that targets its frustration against feminism and gender equality, and violence is directed against women as a group. The common feature of violent extremism is patriarchal violence, hatred of democracy and freedom and hatred of women. It justifies terrorism with unequal arguments – interpretations of religious books, racial hatred and racism – but the goal is always the same. It is therefore time for the eyes and political proposals to be broadened so that it is not only Islamic terrorism that is being debated but all forms of terrorism. According to the National Center for Terrorist Threat Assessment, it is possible that solitary individuals motivated by violent right-wing ideology will carry out terrorist attacks in Sweden. We have also had such an attack in the near future. There are a few individuals with the ability and possible intention to carry out terrorist attacks. But, Madam President, nowhere is so much time and energy spent on preventing people from radicalising as trying to prosecute them. Make people not turn to extremist contexts, neither religious nor politically motivated – that's where the work is supposed to be done. Extreme and undemocratic views should not be allowed to grow. We know that, in economically unequal societies, extreme views thrive more easily. Crime is more widespread and ill health is greater. If we had a social service with great capacity to catch early children who are not well or who are on the run, it would reduce extremism. If we had municipalities that seriously had the capacity to integrate newly arrived people into Swedish society, extremism would decrease. If we had politicians who focused more on reducing economic divides instead of criminalising what is already criminal, extremism would be reduced. We in this House have debated terrorism incredibly many times, and rightly so. Because the problem of radical and violent environments is big, but an even bigger problem is that we do not debate how to make people not radicalized. Because that is where the real problem lies. The legislation we are discussing today is about when it is already too late. Then terrorism has already taken place. I request the approval of reservation 12.
i-f1e166b123e01138-308	Madam President, I would like Terrorism is, unfortunately, a constant threat in the society in which we live. Swedish jihadists have played an active role in Islamic State terror activities, in acts of terror that have been committed elsewhere in Europe. We have also seen acts of terror in our own country. In 2017, mortal jihadism came to Sweden. On April 7, a person with a truck drove five people to death on Drottninggatan in Stockholm. The method is recognized from Islamic terrorist acts throughout Europe. More and more perpetrators act alone but with ideological and tactical backing from IS, for example. In parallel with the emergence of jihadism in Sweden, the terror cells of Nazism have also begun to show up again. Preparations for murder and bombing are the responsibility of that movement. Terrorism will not overthrow our society, but it can do much harm. Sweden needs to do much more to stop the emergence of terrorism. Madam President, I would like People should be able to feel confident that openness and human rights, as well as the fundamental values of democracy, are respected. No one should have to feel the fear of expressing their opinion or of participating in political or religious meetings. During the year, we have seen several examples of those forces that want something other than to protect transparency and human rights – forces that want to undermine democracy. Sweden must have a strong defence against these threats. Terrorism threatens international peace and security, national security and our fundamental rights and freedoms. A broad consensus on issues such as these is important. According to the Swedish Security Service, approximately 300 people have travelled from Sweden to Syria and Iraq in recent years, one third of which are women. 140 individuals have returned so far. They pose a safety risk. The task of the Security Service is to identify and monitor these persons. Many of those who have returned can be treated as scarred war heroes in growing environments of violent extremism and radicalisation. These environments must be combated. It is true that the number of returnees has decreased. Säpo has information that more people are forced to stay, but those who return need to be watched further. In addition, intelligence and prevention are complicated by the fact that the threat can also consist of solitary individuals. There is also, of course, a large number of people who, according to Säpo, have been radicalized but have not gone to Syria, and there are also a large number of domestic violent extremists within the right- and left-wing environment. Säpo estimates that the total number is 3 000, of which 2 000 are Islamists and 1 000 come from the right- and left-wing environments. Madam President, I would like Of course, not all of these people are prepared to commit terrorist attacks or other acts of violence, but they are individuals who can support, raise money, recruit and help in various ways. This means a tenfold increase in the number of violent extremists since 2010. This is extremely serious, and we see the threats growing. As we move towards election years, the extremists are likely to increase their activities for attention. Madam President, I would like It was urgent that a broad agreement be reached between the former left-wing government and the alliance parties. We Christian Democrats have presented early proposals to strengthen preventive work and to provide the police and Säpo with the tools needed in the fight against terror. The agreement was a follow-up to the agreement reached in December 2015. We believe it is urgent that there is continued readiness to be able to call in for new talks if the world situation is changing again. Many of the things we agreed on in the Terrorist Agreement are issues that we have been pursuing for a long time. Our starting points were to fight the ideas behind the terror and to raise our anti-terrorism capacity. Madam President, I would like It is disappointing that the government has failed to deliver a bill that meets the demands of the Law Council on the issue of a ban on association with terrorist organisations. It's a failure. If and when a bill is submitted to Parliament, it will be far too late. In fact, the vast majority of Swedes who have been able to return from IS to Sweden have already done so, and they will probably not be able to be prosecuted. It's a big failure. Nevertheless, a ban on association with terrorist organisations needs to be put in place. This is where the government needs to act. We believe that it should be made clear that no association or assistance to terrorist organisations should be tolerated in Sweden. We have long had a far too permissive attitude toward those who challenge fundamental parts of our society. Any association with terrorist organisations should be criminalised. Madam President, I would like We have a responsibility to prevent people from travelling from our country in order to carry out the brutal acts that force people to flee. More offensive and concrete work is needed in municipalities to prevent people joining terror cells or becoming IS warriors. It is important to break the exclusion that exists in certain urban suburbs that can be the breeding ground for extreme organisations. It is also important that more good forces stand up for tolerance. For example, associations and religious congregations can play an important role here. Of course, terrorist organisations such as IS cannot be halted by dialogue on religious freedom, but extremist religious movements do not emerge from a vacuum. It is clear that a more active policy is needed in this area. We Christian Democrats also want to strengthen drop-outs and crime prevention in municipalities. The state will design functioning drop-outs and family support activities that focus particularly on violent Islamists and involve the Muslim communities with which the municipalities can cooperate. Madam President, I would like A significant problem that can be expected to grow in the future is that foreign power is trying to influence Sweden. What is most discussed are various types of Russian disinformation campaigns and psychological warfare. What is discussed less, however, is the wave of foreign funding for religious foundations and mosques that comes either directly from foreign states or from various actors closely linked to these states. There are states, foundations, organisations and others who have an interest in destabilising Sweden and undermining Swedish democracy. It is a serious threat that affects us in the long term. Sweden must act. The Christian Democrats propose a ban on foreign extremists funding organisations, foundations and political groupings in Sweden. Of course, such a ban needs to be thoroughly investigated. But we see that there is a need for it to be implemented. On the basis of this reasoning, I am in favour of reservation 7 on the financing of terrorism. We also agree with the committee's two announcements on the review of confidentiality legislation and that the government should develop national guidelines for dealing with returnees. Averting terrorist threats is about safeguarding the absolute core of the state over all others: protecting the lives and security of its citizens. All in all, we Christian Democrats believe that efforts to prevent terrorism need to be strengthened.
i-f1e166b123e01138-326	Madam President, I would like It is about the open society and the threats to it, about the open society and those who defend it. We will hopefully see the defenders in this House, among other things. This is a dilemma. To put it bluntly, Madam President, you have to be so stupid in Sweden. What we are trying to prevent is people translating madness into all sorts of extreme activities that could threaten the rest of us, who only want to live in tolerance, openness and freedom. There have already been good lists, from both the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party, of the threats that exist. It is a breadth of madness that organizes itself and wants to attack what we, according to our constitution, are set to defend: people's right to be safe in Sweden. What can be added are so-called animal rights terrorists or animal rights extremists. It is the only group that has not been mentioned so far. It may be the contribution of the Liberals at the end of the debate. Here, too, we are talking about people who have completely lost touch with reality and who claim that you can do anything with people who have fur animals, who run agriculture or what it can be. There are people who attack diggers, because there is a risk that they can dig off earthworms, or who attack fish shops. They have no boundaries. Enough about that, Madam President. Liberals support most of the report. We are pleased that a majority points out to the government that the Privacy Act is absolutely crucial. All of this must be taken seriously. It is unpleasant, but the law of secrecy between authorities today sets limits on how to combat and, not least, prevent acts of terrorism. We also stress the importance of efforts to take better care of the returnees. A current group, which has been highlighted before, are people who come from the old, decayed caliphate and who are now in camps where the situation is terrible. Sooner or later they will appear in Swedish municipalities, in Laxå, in Gävle or wherever they can end up. They must be met by the greatest expertise. It is good that the majority of the committee points to this and sends a clear signal to the government that it needs to be further improved, although very good work is already being done. It brings us to the Centre against violent extremism, which has a coordinating responsibility. The liberals usually come back to the fact that it is an activity that needs to lie with the Swedish police. Prevention is central and is largely related to the law enforcement mission. So it's supposed to be organized there. It is nothing for a statistical authority or the Crime Prevention Council, on which you can sometimes have views. You can say calmly that it belongs less there. Madam President, I would like The Liberals are in favour of reservation 18, which we have together with others, on EU cooperation. It is important that existing EU cooperation is further strengthened. It is about preventing, protecting, combating and acting. We must have this capacity together and with coordination. Right as it is, there may be several attacks. Cross-border connections are often more the rule than exceptions in terms of inspiration and ability collection. But the action itself can also be coordinated in the future. The EU has taken a great deal of action in recent years. More needs to be done. The Prime Minister reported back yesterday in the Chamber on the financing of EU cooperation. I hope that no one from the other parties in this House is sitting and thinks that this is something to be cheap on. It costs money. We must work together within the European Union to combat terrorism. For Europe is soon one of the few places in the world that stands for the values that not least the Riksdag usually celebrates: the tolerant and open society. Madam President, I would like The government gets a lot of bark. I think it deserves a lot of it. But when you talk about defending transparency, it is a bit in the nature of things that it is difficult to know how far to go. The Parliamentary Committee on Justice has had a number of cases so far concerning the strengthening of coercive measures to combat crime. A lot of them are new. They come about because of new technology. It is reasonable and right that we take those steps forward. But the open society tends to always lag a little behind. We need to be fast-footed. Things can happen that we haven't anticipated today. Several have highlighted it earlier in the debate. That's why I'm leaving it there. We must also be clear that we must be prepared to defend our democracy with the necessary means, whether it be how we take care of people or send them out of Sweden without trial. All that is unpleasant but absolutely necessary. For democracy, we in here, not only have a right to defend Sweden. We also have a duty to do so.
i-f1e166b123e01138-337	Madam President, I would like The Government aims to reduce the administrative costs of companies as a result of regulations. But in reality, outside the shell cover of the Riksdag, the costs of administration are not reduced. The reason is simple. The government says one thing and does something completely different. It is not a reduction in the administration we have seen since the government took office. Diversity reporting is just one of the very many charges imposed by the government. Christer Östlund, responsible for regulatory improvements at the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, says about the government's regulatory improvements: Companies' regulatory costs have increased annually by an average of SEK 1.2 billion since 2013. At the same time, we see how other countries take precedence and work actively to reduce their costs. It is therefore 1.2 billion in increase, every year. Diversity accounting is only a small part. There are constantly new inventions: certifications, environmental permits, reports and most recently permits to plant timber on their own land. When it comes to imposing new demands on companies, inventiveness is endless. Each year it is an increase of SEK 1,200 million. That is what it costs to have a Social Democratic government. One can also say about 4 800 million more after a Social Democratic government period of four years, and we have had one for six years. 4 800 million over a term of office corresponds to many thousands of medical services and medical places. But this is not taxes or revenues for the state, but it is only expenses for our companies that do not bring any corresponding benefit. The demands on companies are constantly being tightened. I have in a previous debate compared government treatment of companies with Chinese water torture. Each drop may individually not do so much damage, but the constant and surely repeated repetition drives the victim crazy. It is particularly difficult when it is not possible to defend oneself. There is another problem here. Companies do not have to put up with the government's pain, but can do something that can lead to something even worse for Sweden. Because they can move. Madam President, I would like Why must Sweden always be the best in the class? When new rules come from the EU, many of the other countries are waiting as long as possible. They then ensure that as few companies as possible are affected by the new regulatory framework. Our government does exactly the opposite. Thus, our companies are adversely affected compared to companies in other parts of the European Union. You do an overinterpretation. You do a little more. You introduce a little more rules that get a little harder in just every area. The question is not whether companies should reflect on how they best benefit from the skills of employees and how diversity can be an advantage. I am absolutely convinced that companies will be able to work on this without specific requirements for accounting to the state. The problem is the forced new charge. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I would like to support Amendment No 2. Although I support all our reservations, in order to save time for the next vote, I will settle for No. 2.
i-f1e166b123e01138-346	Madam President, I would like I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all reservations. In order to save time, like Mikael Eskilandersson, I do not want to add much more, but we take it in the supposed lines. There Mikael Eskilandersson can present his proposals and questions.
i-f1e166b123e01138-347	Madam President, I would like As I said before, diversity accounting is just another charge for Sweden's companies. Environmental statements, certifications and all kinds of permits and fees are other charges imposed by the Government. How do all these new charges actually fit in with the government's objective of reducing the administrative burden and the regulatory burden on companies? How does the MP Ola Möller view the fact that the government has increased the costs for companies by several billions just by increasing their administration?
i-f1e166b123e01138-348	Madam President, I would like Mikael Eskilandersson raises important issues. Of course, we need to discuss what companies should account for and what they should do. If this House chooses to have health and safety legislation, environmental legislation and the like, it must be followed up. Then you have to have tools for it too. Diversity reporting is something that the EU has decided. It would probably not be wise to anticipate the work the European Commission is doing to evaluate this. Perhaps we can stick to what the report is about. As regards the diversity policy and the financial statements to be made, this is in line with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. It is not that companies themselves, in their self-regulation, think that this is a problem. I think it is important that we have a follow-up of what diversity work in companies looks like. If we are to be able to have applicable and good legislation on gender equality at work, for example, we must also have an overview. This is also about the largest companies listed on the stock exchange. There are about 50 companies that need to deal with this. They're supposed to have over 250 employees. I do not think it is a particularly burdensome task for them to account for the gender composition and the skills or background of the employees. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise will of course always push for rules and similar things to be removed. What is interesting is the question of why the Swedish Democrats run a regulatory simplification line and, for example, question environmental legislation, as Mikael Eskilandersson did here in the speaker's chair. He said you could remove that. In that case, one can also remove the legislation on health and safety at work. Then we will find ourselves in a situation where companies are well-suited, while workers are not so much cared for.
i-f1e166b123e01138-353	Madam President, I would like It was a rather overconfident interpretation to say that one would like to remove the health and safety laws simply because one says that a great deal has been added under the Social Democratic Government in the form of further reports. Of course, the diversity report is just a small report, just one more drop, that companies should put up with. Then let me rephrase: the government has achieved 1.2 billion in increase each year. The costs for companies have increased by 4 800 million. We had health and safety laws and environmental laws even before the Social Democratic Government started. So this is only an increase in expenditure that the companies have received during the time that the Social Democrats have been in government power. These are costs that are a direct consequence of the government's introduction of new rules, certifications, diversity reports and so on. As far as Europe is concerned, as I said, we always go a little further. We always do a little more. We should always be a little better, unlike other countries that do exactly the opposite. They do almost a little less than you have to. They lie down at the lower limit, while we lie down at the upper limit. The question is whether this is a good basis for the government's work on simplification. Do the government parties themselves think that they are worthy of a high mark for the work on regulatory simplification? From me the grade would hardly get over an F.
i-f1e166b123e01138-357	Madam President, I would like It is clear that the Swedish Democrats do not think that the government should receive a high rating. It's in the nature of things. In your reservation, you write that there should be an anonymised employment procedure in the public sector. This is interesting, because in the municipalities where the Swedish Democrats run – in Skåne, for example, Svalöv, Bjuv and Staffanstorp – it has not been introduced. The Swedish Democrats therefore make proposals here in the Swedish Parliament that you should do certain things, but when you go to the municipal level it turns out that it is not connected. They say one thing here and another thing there. That the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise says it will be 1.2 billion more expensive must be seen as a party submission. Of course, they bake in all the costs that they see as problematic, and then they attract a little more. It's kind of like when Almega criticizes the RUT deduction and the like. I don't take that figure very seriously. It is clear that the Swedish Democrats choose, on a point-by-point basis, to stand on the side of companies against the workers. That's how it's gonna be every time there's a proposal. This applies, for example, to the safety representative question. Mikael Eskilandersson said that we already had a health and safety legislation. But it depends on the existence of safety representatives to review. However, you want to remove them in order to weaken trade union organisation. Then a state authority will take care of this. This is therefore a direct attack on workers. You are doing this with regard to diversity policy, which is to ensure that people work for gender equality. Wake it up! For whom are you doing this? Well, you do it for the entrepreneurs, for ordinary people who want to come in and get a better job situation. You do it when it comes to money from welfare. Get the money out to Saudi Arabia, so Academedia can start free schools! But that the older and younger children should be able to get a good education for the tax money we have paid in and that ordinary people should get it better, the Swedish Democrats are against. That is the point-by-point approach. Wake up with the rules! Make it easier for companies! Then ordinary people will pay the price. That is what will be the consequences of the policy of the Swedish Democrats.
i-f1e166b123e01138-365	Madam President, I would like The gambling market has been the subject of major discussions over the past year, and there have been plenty of headlines in this area. We've been reading about fatigue on gambling advertising. There has been a great debate on the issue of gambling advertising. Just a few months after the new gambling law was introduced, Minister Ardalan Shekarabi went out and threatened with a total ban on gambling advertising, which was perhaps a little too drastic. We Moderates always stand up for commercial freedom of expression. It is reasonable in a legal market that companies should be able to market their products. When discussing the gambling market, I think it is important to remember that gambling for the vast majority of people is associated with pleasure. Many play to support their local sports club or other organizations. Many in our country are very interested in sports of various kinds and find great pleasure in playing on a game or trotting race, as you can see in reality, in real time on television or perhaps afterwards through some streaming service. At the same time, of course, it is important to remember that there are also people who suffer from gambling abuse. There should, of course, be strong support for them. The Moderates protect those who enjoy gambling and affirm the opportunities to play in a healthy and regulated gaming market where all players have the same conditions. At the same time, we protect those who, for various reasons, are at risk of gambling abuse. We therefore welcomed the new gaming law, which has been in place since last year and which aims to create a modern and regulated market with licensed companies that are covered by Swedish consumer protection. Reregulation was, as I said, a long-awaited reform that replaced the outdated monopoly with modern legislation that includes the whole growing gambling market. The aim was to create a gaming market characterised by high consumer protection, high safety in the games and clear conditions for operating on the market through the licensing system. This also means that we have now opened the market to serious players, who also pay taxes in Sweden. The fact that the new law was adopted by such a broad block-crossing majority, we hope, moderates mean that the playing field for all parties involved will not be changed in a capricious way. Madam President, I would like With the re-regulation of the Swedish gambling market, the state has gained a more important role in overseeing the gaming market than before. This task is entrusted to the Inspectorate Games, previously the Swedish Gaming Authority, which grants licences but also exercises supervision. The fact that a number of gaming companies have already lost their licenses and/or received high periodic penalty payments and fines after such a short period of time with the new gaming market shows that supervision works. We Moderates are by nature sceptical about the state competing with private operators in a competitive and regulated market. The involvement of the State in such markets should primarily be limited to supervising and curbing crime. Given the new gambling market, there must therefore be a clear demarcation of the State's behaviour, on the one hand, and on the competitive market, and on the other hand, where there is still a monopoly. The investigation that led to the reregulation proposed that Svenska Spel be divided into two strictly separate companies. So do we Moderates. The game that is still reserved, including land-based casinos and VLTs, should still take place under Svenska Spel's direction. When Svenska Spel has been divided into two strict companies, there are no reasonable reasons why the state should operate in a competitive market. The part of Svenska Spel that operates in the competitive market should be sold in the next step. Madam President, I would like Another important thing to raise when we talk about the gambling market is the horse industry. Horse sport is a very large and important industry that has a turnover of more than SEK 72 billion annually, employs 38,000 people in our country and contributes 6 billion tax dollars each year. The main player and contributor to the horse industry is ATG, Aktiebolaget Trav and Galopp, which has gained a new role in the reregulated market. The consequences for the horse industry of the reregulation were not enough to the attention of the government, which is why an investigation has now been set up. We Moderates are very pleased that the committee was able to agree on an announcement to the government that the investigation part of the horse industry should be submitted by the autumn. The horse industry can no longer afford to operate in limbo with the unclear conditions that prevail. In the past, when gambling on horse sports was monopolised with ATG as the sole player, the horse sport enjoyed stable and predictable funding. It is at risk with the new competitive situation. It is therefore important that the results of the new investigation provide sustainable future funding for the horse industry and horse sport. Since ATG is no longer a monopolist, we Moderates believe that the state's involvement in the company should be terminated. Today, the state appoints a majority of the board, including the chairman, despite the fact that the company is wholly owned by Svensk Travsport and Svensk Galopp. For me as a moderate, it feels very strange that there are no more parties in the Swedish Parliament who think that this is an attack on property rights and that it is unreasonable that it still looks like this. Madam President, I would like A social problem linked to the gaming market is the fraud. Both before and now after the re-regulation, it has been noted from both Sports Sweden and the police and the gaming companies that there are bets on fixed matches. Not infrequently, it is organised crime. Sportsmen are paid for matches to end in a certain way or for certain events to take place during a match. This is a major problem for sport and gaming companies, but not least for those who watch the game or honest people who have played on it. With the re-regulation, the Inspectorate had the opportunity to stop gambling at all in, for example, lower divisions that are more exposed to match fixing. However, this is not something that the Authority has used so far. However, the risk of a general ban is that gambling may move to unlicensed companies, such as Asian companies that are not under Swedish jurisdiction, which of course must also be taken into account. The Swedish Sports Federation currently cooperates with the gaming companies as well as with the police and the Swedish Gaming Authority, but it needs to be strengthened. Therefore, sport and gaming companies should be given greater responsibility to share information on suspected match fixing with law enforcement authorities, so that GDPR does not put a stop to it. It would also be good if there was a central function that could coordinate the work better and more closely with regard to match fixing. The organisers of sporting events and the organisers of gambling must be able to cooperate properly in order to detect and stop fraud. This is how we can prevent those who finance and benefit from cheating from succeeding in their organised crime. Another important thing to remember is that match fixing in Sweden is often linked to international crime. International mafia, motorcycle gangs and other international crime should not be able to make money from match fixing. Therefore, it is important that there are good opportunities for international collaboration to stop gambling fraud. Today, these opportunities are limited. However, in an effort to tackle international crime and provide greater opportunities for international cooperation, the Council of Europe developed a convention against match fixing. It is in force from 1 September 2019, when it has been ratified by a sufficient number of countries in the Council of Europe. Sweden, too, should, in our opinion, sign this convention, as the majority of EU countries have already done. But despite the fact that Sports Sweden is asking for the very proposals that the Moderates have put forward in the Committee on Culture and before this House, the government parties are choosing not to support them. I find this very sad. One might wonder whether the Social Democrats really take the question of match fixing seriously. Having said that, Madam President, I would like to endorse the Moderate reservation 4.
i-f1e166b123e01138-381	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin my speech by calling for the approval of reservation 6 from the Swedish Democrats. In 2018, the Riksdag made a decision on the proposal for a re-regulated Swedish gaming market. As a result, the former Swedish gaming monopoly was abolished. As of 1 January 2019, we have a licensing system in place on the Swedish gaming market. On the whole, we Swedish democrats have seen it as something positive. However, there are still a number of questions. This concerns, among other things, aggressive gambling advertising, which has been a problem. But it is also about the financing of the horse industry, to take another example. One of the aims of the new gambling legislation was precisely to protect consumers. For the Swedish Democrats, the public health perspective is central when it comes to questions about gambling and lottery. We have therefore been watching this issue closely and we will continue to do so. Madam President, I would like Both before and after the re-regulation of the Swedish gaming market, there was extensive and even aggressive marketing by some gaming companies in competition for market shares. It was problematic, although we see that the volumes in marketing have now slowed down somewhat. We Swedish democrats have pointed out that it has been problematic that there has been no practice on the ground on what is meant by moderation in marketing as required by the new legislation. The problem with gambling advertising led to the Government having to submit additional directives to the Gaming Market Investigation in April 2019 with a focus on limiting marketing further. The investigation has a chance to land in proposals that protect consumers in the Swedish gaming market and take responsibility for public health. We Swedish democrats intend to be a constructive party to this. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats see it as problematic that the state both regulates and participates in the gaming market at the same time. Therefore, we have concluded that Svenska Spel's operations in the liberalised market should be separated from the other operations and then sold. This is something we have supported in the Committee on Economic Affairs together with the Moderates and Liberals during this Parliamentary meeting. Hopefully, there will soon be a majority in this House in favour of this position. The issue of Svenska Spel is important. The aggressive marketing of online casino games in focus has been a major part of what the political debate on the gaming market has been about. At the same time, we have a state-owned company in the form of Svenska Spel, which operates an online casino business since the entry into force of the new Gaming Act. The fact that, as the representatives of certain parties are doing, namely swinging wildly against the marketing of private companies while being involved in competing with them through their own state-owned companies, is a form of hypocrisy. This is especially true because it is online casino players' money that is involved in filling the Swedish state's pockets through Svenska Spel. Online casinos are also the form of play that seems to be most addictive and can lead to tragedies for individual players as well as for society at large. The fact that there are reasons to believe that different forms of gambling have such different effects in terms of, for example, the problem of addiction means that we Swedish democrats want to investigate the risk classification of different forms of gambling. Madam President, I would like In addition to the Swedish democratic starting point on public health, gaming and lottery issues are also important for parts of civil society, given how the lotteries are involved and how they fund the same. For the Swedish Democrats, it is important to protect a strong and independent civil society. On the other hand, it is indefensible to allow gambling on credit today by way of an exception in the legislation. If a lottery is provided for a so-called public benefit purpose, an exemption may be granted by the Inspectorate Games. That is the law. Although the amount of credit involved today is not very large, it is large enough to be a problem. Nor is gambling on credit justifiable with the argument that it should be seen as a way of opening up to different ways of paying, for example by invoice, rather than playing for money that you do not have. In today's society there are so many different payment methods for how one could pay for one's gambling that that argument is simply not sustainable. The Swedish democrats have long advocated that gambling on credit should not be allowed. No derogations shall be granted for this purpose. Unfortunately, other parties have chosen another way in the question of gambling on credit. I am thinking not least of the Social Democrats, who, through their gaming company Kombispel, earn huge sums of money from people playing away their money. In addition, they offer games on credit and have been involved in driving thousands of people to the Kronofogden over the years. It is time for the Social Democrats and the government to clean their own doors and assume their full social responsibility. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say a few words about loop boxes, or loop boxes. Lootboxes are about lottery and casino-like moments in various types of computer games and apps where the player is offered to buy virtual content in order to make progress in the game. Like a lottery, you don't know exactly what you're going to win. The phenomenon has ended up on the map because it is very similar to gambling with money. It is important that it is clarified when it comes to lottery in those cases and when it does not. We Swedish democrats have pointed this out in one of the committee motions dealt with in this report. It is especially important that it is taken care of because gambling often means that children can come into contact with the phenomenon. We welcome the fact that the Government commissioned the Swedish Consumer Agency to look further at this issue last May. It has then been passed on to the Gaming Market Investigation which will assess what measures may need to be taken to protect consumers in the case of loop boxes. It is now important that it does not drag on a long bench or end up with some semi-baked result as so much else in terms of how the government has handled gaming market issues. Madam President, I would like Last but not least, I would like to say a few words about gambling on horses and the horse industry. As previous speakers mentioned, it is an important issue to be resolved. Unfortunately, the issue was not properly resolved when the Riksdag decided on the government's proposal for a re-regulated gaming market. Instead, several aspects of the issue have persisted half-finished and without long-term sustainable solutions. It is gratifying that a united cultural committee wants to send a clear message to the government that it should ensure that work on developing a model for the financing of the horse industry is done quickly and with an accounting as soon as possible and by autumn 2020 at the latest. As far as ATG is concerned, it contributes to the horse industry despite the re-regulation that has taken place on the market. On the other hand, there is a problem that other actors do not do so in the same way. This also applies to the state's own company Svenska Spel. It makes it a rather strange situation. We also see that it is a strange arrangement that the state will continue to control ATG through the appointment of the board of directors of the company, which is taking place today despite the re-regulation that has taken place on the market. It should have stopped the entry into force of the new legislation. We therefore believe that the state's involvement in the company should be phased out.
i-f1e166b123e01138-401	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media to be approved and therefore rejecting all reservations. Most of us understand the nervous feeling of scratching out three equal amounts, or playing on the ironing tip and seeing the right team score, to shout bingo when the last number goes in or to sit with a good hand during a poker game. For many it is a feeling of excitement and joy, for others it is the start of something completely different. Suddenly it's not about profits, it's about losses and debts. What started in the little – the fun and the exciting – has turned into an addiction that can no longer be handled. It is an addiction that is a form of impulse control disorder. One of the great similarities between gambling addiction and substance addiction is the pursuit of kicks, and the worse your addiction becomes, the higher the amount you need to replay to achieve the same kick. Research shows that for people with gambling addiction, the game eventually becomes more important than profit. The impulse to play takes over the will and desire not to. What makes gambling addiction so difficult to break is the fact that another game can solve your problems. An alcoholic or a drug addict is usually aware that another beer or injection does not solve the problem, but for a gambling addict the solution may be to play one more time: If I win only the next time I can solve my problems. That's why you play again. It's a pattern that it's incredibly hard to break. Madam President, I would like During the autumn of 2017, I got that difficult conversation that nobody wants to get – a conversation that I will never forget. It was a call from my brother and a confession of a gambling addiction that had come to affect his whole life, his finances and his family. Fortunately, he realized relatively quickly that he had a problem, but it was a stage that went quickly. For two to three months he played for small sums, but for three weeks he played away nearly $1,000. My brother knows I'm standing here in the speaker's room today telling his story. When I asked him if it was okay to take him as an example, he replied: I'm open with it, and I prefer not to be anonymous as I want to lift the shame away from it. ..................................................... I asked my brother if there was anything special he wanted me to address in today's game debate. Then he replied that one of the major problems is that it is far too easy to get money quickly. You can sit at home and use your bank ID and quickly borrow quite large sums. It is one thing to sit at home and borrow money and another to have to go to a bank and physically have to look someone in the eye and explain what you should have the money for. Today, my brother has been free of gambling since September 29, 2017. My brother will live with this problem his whole life. My big brother is my hero. Madam President, I would like On 1 January 2019, the new Gambling Act entered into force. The new law is based on a licensing system, where everyone who acts on the Swedish gaming market must have a licence and thus also pay tax in Sweden. The old system of state monopolies had been watered down for many years, and the growing competition from gaming companies from other countries could not be ignored. With the new gaming law, the Swedish gaming market has been divided into different parts. We have the competitive part, which mainly includes online gambling and betting. We have some reserved games for public benefit purposes that mainly include lotteries and bingo. Finally, we also have the part that the state stands for, which includes the state casinos and games on VLTs. I sat on the Committee on Culture during the last parliamentary term, when the new system came into force. I'm very proud to be part of a government that finally got to grips with the problem. This was an issue that had been discussed under several governments, but no solution had been found. That is why I am proud that it has been taken up and, above all, that it has a clear level of consumer protection. The new Gaming Act clearly states that gaming activities should be conducted in a sound and secure manner under state and public control, which means that the games should have a high level of consumer protection, that there should be high safety in the games, that the negative consequences of gambling should be limited and that gambling should not be used for criminal activities. All companies with a gaming license therefore have a large responsible gaming system, which is intended to protect consumers against excessive gambling. One step in this has been to restrict the companies' marketing. Minister of Social Security Ardalan Shekarabi, who is responsible for gaming issues, has during the entire process, both before and after the creation of the new Gaming Act, marked against those gaming companies that have not behaved and been too aggressive. He has also clearly indicated that the government is prepared to take further action if it does not comply with the rules on moderate advertising and marketing. Madam President, I would like In this report, we are dealing with 71 requests for exercise, ranging from evaluation of the licensing system to funding for public benefit purposes, promotion of games, match fixing, horse nutrition, e-sports and much more. Despite new gaming teams, it is clear that gaming interest or interest in gaming issues is still very large, and major changes, regardless of area, always require and raise supplementary questions. As part of this work, the government almost directly launched the Gaming Market Investigation, which will look at the parts that did not reach all the way. Here we find, among other things, things such as the financing of the horse industry and sport, as well as clearer measures against gambling advertising. This is an investigation that should be completed by 31 October this autumn. Several of us sitting in this House today are part of the parliamentary reference group that is to look at the additional directives on, for example, gambling advertising and marketing. Several of the motions in the report relate to issues that are part of the new investigation, which will be completed this autumn. For me, it is important that we wait and see what it actually points to before we take other political decisions. Although, of course, I am eager to bring about some changes, I eagerly await what the investigation proposes and what the arguments for the proposals mean. My clearest focus right now, however, is that we should continue to protect the utility companies and preserve the opportunities for association life to gain revenue through, for example, lotteries. We must also ensure long-term, sustainable financing of the horse industry, which has a clear whole-country perspective. And the match-fixing in sports has to go. We are clear that organised crime should have no place in sport. Madam President, I would like I am not someone who is on the side of the gaming companies, but as long as they exist in Sweden, it is of the utmost importance that we also have control over the gaming market. We cannot allow the gambling market to re-emerge freely. That is why politics should assume its responsibilities and give them the right conditions with a licence, but it is also important to have tough rules and be clear about what we demand. We will have a sustainable gaming in Sweden, but it should be a gaming that protects people and protects the little, the exciting and the fun. It's a promise I make here and now. I give it to the gaming companies, I give it to the Swedish people and I give it to my brother.
i-f1e166b123e01138-425	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anna Wallentheim, for your post! I can say that we agree with each other on certain things but not on everything. The Social Democrats and the government, led by Ardalan Shekarabi, have profiled themselves on gaming and lottery issues as a party that wants to take responsibility for protecting consumers. There has been a wild swing against the gaming companies in rhetoric, including when it comes to gambling advertising. At the same time, however, we want to see exceptions in the legislation that obviously benefit the social democracy itself and the gambling company that it operates. They want to retain the exception for gambling on credit, unlike us Swedish democrats. The Social Democrats and SSU make tens of millions of dollars every year through their company Combispel because people play away money, in many cases money that they do not have, because they allow gambling on credit. Between 2014 and 2017, the Social Democratic gaming company Kombispel drove over 8,000 players to Kronofogden because they had not paid lottery tickets that they had bought on credit. Social democracy is thus making great profits from people who are in debt and certainly also in many cases gambling addiction. Social democracy is economically dependent on people playing away their money. No party fills its pockets with money from gambling in the way Social Democrats and SSU do, while at the same time attacking the gaming companies hard. There is hypocrisy in this. It is an irresponsible policy. Why do the Social Democrats want people to be able to play credit for money they don't have? Could it be because it is a large source of revenue for the organization, for the party and for SSU?
i-f1e166b123e01138-431	Madam President, I would like Jonas Andersson has chosen to request a reply to my speech on gambling and lottery business on credit. It does not surprise me; I actually expected that question to come. The new gaming law states that it is not allowed to play on credit. It is prohibited for gaming companies to offer it. However, there are exceptions to the credit ban in the case of subscription tickets and lotteries, for example. It has also been pointed out, both from research and from various authorities, that the risk of repeated and unplanned gambling in the case of subscription tickets is deemed to be almost excluded. Now the Swedish Democrats want to pursue a line where there should be no exceptions and where all forms of credit should be completely banned. Then, of course, I wonder if the Swedish Democrats are aware of the importance of lottery sales for our popular movements. I know that we are clearly being pointed out as a party, but the peoples' movements are largely financing their activities through lottery sales, where subscriptions and this credit exemption are included. The sports movement does this. The sobering movement does. And, yes, we as a party have also had our tickets. Jonas Andersson said something in the sense that it is time for the Social Democrats to clean their own doors. That's exactly what we've done. Since it emerged that this problem existed in our own lottery, not a single new case has been reported. For we chose just to clean in front of our own door. It is incredibly important that we do not place people in dependence or put people at risk of debt or end up with the bailiff. It is incredibly important that we have demands even for those who are allowed to have lottery activities on credit, but we cannot destroy for the sports movement and our other peoples' movements.
i-f1e166b123e01138-436	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anna Wallentheim, for your answer. I note that this issue seems to be a bit of a sore toe for the Social Democracy. Although Anna Wallentheim says that this has been taken up in various ways, over 8,000 people have been sent to the bailiff. And it wasn't many years since what we're talking about now happened. Even if it is a rather small amount of credit, there is still a problem of principle, I think. You still want people to be able to play for money they don't have. As I see it, it is quite clear that you are very positive about this legislation because you yourself get great benefits from it. In fact, I cannot see that the reasons for this would otherwise be so strong. As I mentioned in my speech, there are in today's society Swish and other payment solutions that could be used instead. Why is it so important to trade on credit, with money that you do not have? No, I don't think the answer will hold.
i-f1e166b123e01138-439	Madam President, I would like Jonas Andersson says this would be a sore toe. No, not really. I've spoken to the Kombilotteriet and the responsible people. We've said, "We don't think we're okay." That is also why other forms of evaluation have now been chosen to ensure that people do not end up in this situation. We know that peoples' movements fund a large part of their activities via lotteries. This is actually a reason why we have an independent and strong peoples' movement in Sweden. Otherwise, the alternative would have been to rely on donations to carry out their activities and so on, which could be problematic. For example, if you want to be unpolitical and unbounded and do not want to be governed by other forces, it is not always easy to do so. I think, however, that this is basically about one thing: it disturbs the Swedish democrats a little that we actually get this extra revenue. That's where the shoe squeezes.
i-f1e166b123e01138-442	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Anna Wallentheim for raising a number of important issues in her speech, including gambling abuse. This is a major and important issue that we must all take seriously. But I think there are some issues still hanging in the air. This is, among other things, the issue of Svenska Spel. The Government of Shekarabi did not rule out the re-regulation of selling Svenska Spel. I would like to hear how the Social Democrats think: are the Social Democrats open to the state not to compete with companies in a competitive market? I would also like to ask Anna Wallentheim how the Social Democrats view ATG. How can the Social Democrats think that it is reasonable for a whole private company to be controlled by the state? Enough because the Social Democrats may not have the finest history when it comes to protecting property rights – we have employee funds and many other things behind us. But how can it be considered reasonable for the state to control a wholly private company by appointing a majority of the board, including the chairman? Then I would like to mention this with match fixing. I can begin by thanking Anna Wallentheim for the seminar that the honourable Member organised on match fixing – it was very good and necessary. It just showed that Sports Sweden is asking for the proposals that we Moderates have put forward. For example, it is a question of being able to exchange information more easily by ensuring that it is an obligation, so that it violates GDPR. Why do the Social Democrats not want to agree to the proposals that we Moderates have put forward, which could facilitate the work against organised crime in terms of match fixing? I would also like to ask whether the Social Democrats can consider signing the match fixing convention which the Council of Europe has signed and which many countries have ratified and which could enable us to achieve international cooperation on this issue.
i-f1e166b123e01138-447	Madam President, I would like Many questions came from Moderate John Weinerhall. I'll try to answer them all. Fortunately, we'll have another line change if I don't have time for it right now. I can start with Svenska Spel and the ATG issue. As you said, there were parts in the first investigation that looked at Svenska Spel's prerequisites in the new gaming law. What would the division look like? This is something that continues to be looked at in the new Gaming Market Investigation, which is actually to come up with further proposals. What could such a division look like, and what might the division look like? The same is true of ATG. The horse industry is a fairly large and important part of the Gaming Market investigation, where you should look at both ownership and governance but also at funding. I choose to wait for the investigation and see what it points to, because I think it is an important issue. In his speech, John Weinerhall highlighted the size and importance of the horse industry for the whole country. It is about jobs. It's about the state economy. But it's also about integration projects, about this being able to exist throughout the country and about being able to take part in games and trots and so on. I think it is important to understand why the state has been very committed to this issue. There was no complete division of board duties. These are important issues for the state, for the labour market and for the whole country. That is why they have chosen to continue. It is possible that the gaming market investigation will point to other things. Then we'll have to take a stand on it. There were also a couple of questions about match fixing. One concerned the processing of personal data and the problem of GDPR. I know that Ardalan Shekarabis's officials are currently looking at the issue. This has been highlighted by sport, the police and prosecutors. This was highlighted during the seminar, because it is considered to be an important issue. If this can help, it is clear that you want to participate and influence. On the other hand, respect for the difficult privacy balance should be respected.
i-f1e166b123e01138-453	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Anna Wallentheim! However, perhaps I would have liked it to be something more clear. Although the investigation is now looking at the ownership issue and the governance issue in relation to Svenska Spel and ATG, it would have been possible in advance to adopt a principled approach: Is it right or wrong for the state to compete in a competitive market through a wholly-owned state-owned company? Regardless of what the investigation concludes, it may seem that it is fundamentally wrong for the state to control an entirely private company owned by the gallop and trotting. One might think that it is completely wrong for the state to control such a company and appoint a majority of the board. You can see it as an attack on property rights, no matter what this investigation comes up with. I would like to ask the Social Democrats if they do not see an absurdity in the fact that the state is the owner of a competitive market, that it is the sole owner of a state-owned company, Svenska Spel, and that it controls ATG by appointing a majority of the board. I would like to ask Anna Wallentheim whether, regardless of the outcome of the investigation, we can not rely on the Social Democrats in this case to stand up for ownership and safeguard a free and competitive market. Then it's game fixing. Of course, integrity is important, but here we are talking about an organised international mafia that today earns billions. It's a billion-dollar industry to do match fixing. Surely, then, we must overcome those problems. Personal integrity is, of course, important, but in this case one may have to bend it in order to get to grips with the mafia activities that are being carried out today. I would like to ask the Social Democrats if they do not see it as desirable to overcome the problems that they want to do something about them in real life.
i-LkbnE3dd1HEu7iauxt3YDj	Madam President, I would like Thank you, John Weinerhall, for the questions! The match fixing issue is undoubtedly one of the issues that takes up the most time of my work here in Parliament right now: how are we going to overcome it, and what issues do we need to resolve? It is also one of the issues where I have the most contact with Ardalan Shekarabi and his officials looking at the issue. There is no doubt that the government is prepared to pursue this issue, and it is currently looking at the solutions that can be found. It must also be understood that it is not only a question of decisions here in Sweden, but also of the limits that exist at European level and of the European legislation that we break if we do these things. It has to go hand in hand; that's why you look at the question. We Social Democrats are prepared to push the issue, and I am constantly in contact with the government about the need to solve this, because, as both John Weinerhall and I have mentioned, organised crime has nothing to do with Swedish sport. When it comes to Svenska Spel and above all ATG, which John Weinerhall was into, I mean that we have had quite a big change in the gaming market. It is perhaps the biggest change that has ever happened when we chose to release the state monopoly to go to a licensing system. The state has had its involvement in both Svenska Spel and ATG in the form of close cooperation, and we think it is important. I am just like John Weinerhall and the Moderates aware that there are parts in the horse industry that would like to see a clear break. It is believed that one would like to set up one's own board and that the state should not have the clear commitment by a majority on the board. However, one must also be aware that there are those who are pushing other issues and who actually think it is important for the state to be there and support, because the horse industry is so incredibly important for the whole country. If something happens, you mean, the state must be there to lift and discuss the issues. The same is true of Svenska Spel. When I talk to them, they say that this is not at all as clear as certain parties, including the Moderates, want to highlight. Not everyone wants to see us sell out the parts of Svenska Spel that are involved in casino operations.
i-Ldga5DFMzEYBgXZNosaMiv	Madam President, I would like A new regulation of the gaming market in Sweden entered into force on 1 January 2019. The gambling market in Sweden for money games is today something completely different from when the previous gaming legislation was developed. The state gambling monopoly simply no longer worked as gaming companies grew at a rapid rate on the internet. It was companies which at that time were not covered by the legislation in force and were therefore not subject to rules on consumer liability and liability in Sweden. It was also a development that gave access to completely new forms of gambling about money in an international market. New forms of both paying and receiving money online also made progress at a very fast pace. The re-regulation of the gambling market was therefore absolutely necessary. It was both a comprehensive and difficult task to regulate the Swedish gaming market, which we could see not least because the issue had been discussed and was the subject of several investigations for many years before the proposal for a reregulation was finally on the table of the Riksdag in 2018. Madam President, I would like In the years that have passed while the issue has been supported and wet and investigated, the gaming market, mainly online, has continued to develop at a rapid pace. At the same time, we must not forget that the income from lotteries and bingo games has been and still is a very important, yes, quite essential, part of the income of large parts of our civil society. This has been achieved, among other things, by the fact that civil society organisations had a tax exemption on the income from these games. A continued tax exemption of civil society lotteries and bingo games even in a re-regulated gaming market is therefore an important issue for civil society to continue with the invaluable efforts that are being made for society at large. It is about the lottery ticket that you buy from the tombolan at the association arrangement but also about the possibility for organizations to sell lottery tickets and organize bingo games on a national level. Madam President, I would like However, when the new regulation of the gambling market came into force at the start of 2019, there were still some issues to be resolved. When we took a decision in the Riksdag in spring 2018, the government also promised to find solutions to some of the outstanding issues. In the autumn of 2018, an investigation was set up that was given the broad mandate to investigate most of these issues. In addition, the same investigation later also received an additional directive to also investigate the issue of gambling advertising. It is not a good thing that all these issues, which are of such a different nature and where the need for rapid investigation varies, have been brought together in one and the same investigation and must also be presented at the same time, namely on 31 October 2020. I have also pointed this out on several occasions, but now that is how the government has wanted to deal with this. One of the issues that the investigation has to investigate is the horse industry that is so important for rural areas and its long-term funding. Since the horse sport's own gaming company AB Trav and Gallopp, ATG, is now operating in a re-regulated market with completely new rules for the company, the conditions for how the horse industry will get its funding are also changed. It is a funding that has previously taken place via ATG, under the supervision of the state and with specifically targeted rules under the previous gaming law. This is therefore a question which, just over a year after the gambling market has been re-regulated, has not yet received an answer, despite the fact that the government was aware of the importance of urgently investigating this particular issue. That was something that I also pointed out during the debate in this House in 2018 when the decision on the re-regulation of the gambling market was taken. It is therefore very good, and I am grateful for that, that all the parties in the Swedish Parliament now agree with the proposal from the Center Party to urge the Government, through an announcement, to ensure that the work to produce proposals for a new model for the financing of the horse industry takes place quickly and is reported as soon as possible. Madam President, I would like This is an issue that should have been resolved already. In this case, however, I must say that it is better late than never. It is now up to the government to show that this is being taken seriously and to ensure that this issue is resolved quickly.
i-f1e166b123e01138-477	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Per Lodenius, not least for the excellent proposals that you made in the Committee on Culture and on which we were able to agree! It is incredibly important that the conditions of the horse industry can be sorted out and put in place as quickly as possible. We are all very concerned about that. My question to the Center Party and Per Lodenius, as we discussed earlier in this speaker's chair, concerns the ownership of Svenska Spel and the view of the state's involvement in ATG. The Center Party is still a liberal party. I therefore hope to be able to rely on the Centre Party to stand up for market economy, private ownership and ownership in general. I quote from the Center Party's website: a well-functioning market economy, free from plan economic pointers. Free enterprise, equal opportunities and free trade are crucial for a good society. ..................................................... As a moderate, I can stand up for every syllable in these sentences. My question to Per Lodenius is: How does the Center Party view the state's ownership of Svenska Spel, and how does the Center Party see that the government appoints a majority of the board of directors in ATG?
i-f1e166b123e01138-480	Madam President, I would like I would first like to say to John Weinerhall that he is welcome to apply for membership of the Center Party. He seems to think very similar and to be behind our policy, even when it comes to Svenska Spel and ATG. When it comes to Svenska Spel, ownership is one of the issues that the investigation that has become very broad and very large would investigate. Svenska Spel has two parts. One part is the lottery part. It does not exist in the re-regulated market but is a part that is governed in a completely different way when it comes to gambling regulation. I can imagine that it is still reasonable for the state to own that particular part of the gambling area. When the opposite is about the part of Svenska Spel that currently exists in the reregulated market, in the open market where there is competition, I can definitely see that there may be a need to sell it. That's also what the investigation should look at, so it's definitely an opportunity. At least it's not something the Center Party opposes. When it comes to ATG and appointing the board, the investigation will also look at ATG's role. It is not reasonable for the State to appoint the board of directors of a company that is not owned by the State but by other organisations, which should be allowed to appoint the board of directors themselves. I can only agree with John Weinerhall that here there are questions to work on to review how it can work in the reregulated new market.
i-f1e166b123e01138-485	Madam President, I would like Sure, we may think the same in a lot, but membership of the Center Party will probably not be relevant. We Moderates sometimes think like the Center Party, but we also stand up for our politics and run it in the Riksdag. It's popular to hide behind investigations. As politicians, you want to do it sometimes. But my question is of a more principled nature: is it reasonable for the state to compete through a wholly-owned company in a competitive market or not? Does it seem reasonable for a wholly privately owned company to be controlled by the State through a majority, yes or no? It does not matter to me what this investigation comes up with, because as moderates who believe in market economy, private ownership and free enterprise, my attitude is crystal clear: the state should not compete in a competitive market. The State shall not appoint a majority of the Board of Directors of a private company. Just as far as the investigation is concerned, we Moderates will continue to present these proposals until they become reality. Next time, I hope that we and Per Lodenius and the Center Party will be on the same side and will be able to present these proposals together in the committees.
i-f1e166b123e01138-489	Madam President, I would like I don't know if John Weinerhall really listened to what I said. In this case, we in the Center Party have said that for us ownership is important. As I said, in a reregulated market, the state should not be involved with a company that competes with other companies in this way. I also said that I think ATG should have a different board appointment than the state because it now acts as an independent company in a reregulated market. How this should be done – because here it's not just turning your coat and suddenly doing something completely different – that's what the investigation needs to look at, and that's what I mean we need to take advice from an investigation to see. There are therefore several elements to this, but the principle that the state should not own companies in the reregulated market is entirely behind it. The same applies to the appointment of the Board of Directors of a company not owned by the State. The Center Party is also fully behind this. Madam President, I would like With that, I think John Weinerhall has understood what I said. But we need to have two exchanges of lines at a time like this, so maybe that's more what it was all about. ( THIRD VICE TALMANN: It is up to Members to determine how many correspondence exchanges they wish to use within the framework of what is in the rules. )
i-f1e166b123e01138-496	Madam President, I would like There are many current, urgent, interesting, serious and exciting issues to debate in the field of gaming. I believe that everyone who has followed this debate has been able to hear this so far. Games in any form have probably existed as long as we humans have been here on earth. There is something about the element of competition – the excitement and joy of participating in games are strong driving forces for us. What has been discussed recently is gambling, but in the area we are talking about today we also have video and computer games, for example. The public debate has usually focused on problems with addiction, in fact in terms of both gambling and video and computer games. Longer back there was a big discussion about young people's video gambling addiction. I certainly do not want to minimize the concerns of parents or in any way reduce the problems of gambling addiction. But I would like to start by pointing out that for the vast majority of our society, gambling is a joy, which is something we need to bring with us in the further political process. Most people don't become addicted to scraping a lottery ticket, turning in a tip line or sitting for a couple of hours in front of a video game at night. With we also know that with digital development combined with modern knowledge of brain function, it is today easier than ever to create games that make us dependent. We heard previous examples of how digital loan applications and digital numbers that quickly tick past the screen make it easier to get into a gambling addiction. We in the Left can also see that a policy that has increased inequality along with an increasing number of people suffering from mental ill-health has increased the risk group for gambling addiction in recent years. That is why today I am going to focus on what may be problem areas and leave the joyous side of it. In this report, the Left Party has chosen to highlight the situation of the public benefit lotteries. I have also done so before, last year, in an interpellation debate with Minister Shekarabi. We believe that the Swedish peoples' movements have built and shaped our modern democracy. To this day, association life is strong and creates added value for its millions of members. It is about social community, public health and education. A democratic society still forms the basis of our governance. It is in the associations that democracy is learned in practice. You set a common agenda, train meeting techniques and get used to making joint decisions. Associations are also important as voters for their members. We in Parliament often use the associations as consultation bodies to make decisions. The associations can also influence public opinion and are important in our social policy debate. The fact that society can be economically independent from state power is an important parameter for this to function satisfactorily. Lotteries contribute SEK 1.8 billion to Swedish associations every year. Revenue is an important source of income that safeguards both the activities of associations and their independence. Bingo halls and similar activities are in many cases crucial to the local association and sports life. The nonprofit sphere's ability to run lotteries and bingo is therefore in many cases crucial to maintaining a living community life at the local level. When the previous investigation about the gambling market and the bill for a re-regulated gambling market came, a clear intention from all parties in this Assembly, I believe, was that the utility lottery would not suffer from negative consequences. They were basically to be left out. Unfortunately, that was not the case. Last year we saw major changes in the requirements for these parts. For example, lotteries and machines that could previously be controlled and approved by the Swedish Lottery Inspectorate were required to undergo expensive international certification processes. The translation of all international documents alone cost large sums of money. The lotteries of general interest testified to costs of between 1 million and 8 million to apply for the new certificates, and this applied to all associations and foundations with a turnover of over 5 million. As you can see, that equation does not really go together, and it certainly threatened many of these lotteries. After much divisiveness with the Inspectorate Games and the courtship of the government, some of the rules changed. Others were shot at the future at the last minute, at the end of November. Rules that were due to take effect on 1 January were therefore amended very late. We find this worrying and show that we may not have been sensitive to what we in Parliament really wanted. The Left Party will continue to monitor this issue. We will also push for a change in the Gaming Act if that is what is needed to guarantee the activities of the public benefit associations. Another issue that concerns many of us, as we have heard here, is match fixing. I think we should be able to come up with something good, but I think there are some worrying signals now that the regulations are being consulted. The gaming inspectorate is in the process of developing new regulations. This is a great scourge that really risks destroying sport, and it must be taken very seriously. I hope that the investigation that is being carried out will result in a ban on organising games in lower divisions and on isolated events. We have seen research that shows that many athletes themselves end up in gambling addiction and thus also become very exposed to match fixing. We really need to step up here. There is no need to allow games on games in lower divisions, where there is less coverage and is much more risky, and on the occasional events that individual athletes can influence. We need to get rid of that. I would also like to say a few words about advertising. It is no secret that we in the Left Party would have liked to see much more stringent regulation from the outset. We think it was naive to say that gambling advertising would be moderate, because it concerned only the design itself and not the extent of gambling advertising. There we are now trying to push to follow what the Public Health Authority originally advocated, namely special moderation, which applies to alcohol advertising. We think that this problem can be equated, and we can look at gambling addiction and alcohol addiction in this way. It could have removed the massive spread of gambling advertising in another way. My time is running out, so I won't say any more about this. I'm sure we'll talk more about it in the future. The Left Party is not making any sharp proposals today. As I said, there is an investigation in several of these areas, and we are waiting for it. I regret that many of the proposals have been delayed. We felt that some of this could have been included from the outset. Proposals on rating and other issues were already included in the previous investigation. Nevertheless, I think it is a good thing that we, as a united committee, have been able to say that the horse industry needs to take the lead; we cannot put this on the ground any more. We support that from the Left Party. We also support the proposal in the committee's report as a whole. I think we will have a big discussion in the future. The committee organises a public hearing in April in which we will seriously be able to delve into what reregulation has meant. I will then try to question myself about what resources Game Inspection has actually been given to implement the re-regulation. We think we see that many shortcomings have still not been remedied, despite the fact that it has now been quite a long time. Before rounding off, I would like to draw the attention of the audience to a somewhat odd motion contained in this report; I just think it is worth paying attention. When the Swedish Democrats were here earlier, they did not mention it, but this report contains a proposal from the Swedish Democrats that we here in Parliament should decide that games should be developed to convey and promote Swedish environments, Swedish culture and Swedish cultural creators. I think it is important to highlight this, because this debate has wanted to give the impression that it is opposed to state interference in many areas of the game. But in this exercise, even at the level of detail – at the level of graphics – you want to be inside and poking into the design of specific games. I find this remarkable, and I wanted to mention it in conclusion.
i-f1e166b123e01138-522	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank Anna Wallentheim for the touching story about her brother and also the brother for being willing to take part in describing this. I would like to link this to another person who has ended this addiction and who writes like this: Today I have been free for more than six months. It is a time when I have experienced both the deepest valleys and the highest peaks. The appreciation I have received from my girlfriend, my family, and my friends is tremendous. The pure joy that I express without remorse is an experience, but above all, I can finally invite other people's feelings and experiences, realize that others can help me and that I can help others. The experience I have gained from this is invaluable, and I am determined that it will ultimately benefit me in life. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like Many gaming companies have noted that the financial vulnerability that many find themselves in gives them a chance to attract more to different online games. It's about fast games, i.e. games with a short time between bets and outcomes. These include online poker, net bingo and various forms of online casinos. Gambling is the new heroin, as some initiated person put it. Unserious gaming companies run aggressive advertising campaigns with elements of national celebrities, such as we have had great confidence in, and role models that we have looked up to. They are involved in these activities and in this marketing. I find it regrettable, to say the least, that this is happening. Some – such as Hanna Öberg and Charlotte Kalla – have distanced themselves from this and say that they do not want to deal with it. I think they are worth mentioning in this context. But for many people a trap like the gambling companies exploit ruthlessly is set. How common are gambling problems? The Swedish Public Health Agency's population survey from 2018 showed that of Sweden's population aged 18 to 84, approximately 225 000 people are at some risk of gambling problems, while 56 000 are at an increased risk of gambling problems and 45 000 people have gambling problems. Now there is one person behind each number, but there are many. The negative consequences of having gambling problems affect not only those who play but also the relatives. According to information from the Public Health Agency, approximately 165 000 people share households with someone who has a problem gambling. Of them, 68,000 are children under the age of 18. So relatives and loved ones are affected in various ways, and they may be affected financially or emotionally. Often both people with gambling problems and their relatives experience feelings of guilt and shame. Neighbors may feel deceived and lose faith in the player. But there is also, as we have heard here today, the possibility of redress and the restoration of trust in both relatives and others. I thought I'd read out the state objectives of gaming policy. They are formulated as meaning that the objective is a sound and secure gaming market under public control, which protects the revenues of the public sector and which provides good conditions for non-profit activities of general interest to receive funding through revenue from gambling. Furthermore, it is said that the negative consequences of gambling should be reduced and that there should be a high level of security in the games. Money games are to be subject to a high level of consumer protection and cannot be misused for criminal activities. Madam President, I would like There are several of us in here who have been involved in the development of the licensing system that was introduced on 1 January last year. Håkan Hallstedt, who held the first investigation, did a solid job, and we were, as I said, several who were present. It may sound like the Minister and the Government should have all the credit for this, but I think you can distribute the congratulations a little bit. Nevertheless, we live in a democracy where we all work together for the best, so I think I take a little for myself having been in the reference group of this inquiry, which the parliamentarians have had. The work continues to see how the gaming companies now follow the given rules. Of course, there is dialogue with the government and the minister in charge of this in order to make it work in the best possible way. We have work to do. It is not only the Committee on Culture but also, of course, the Committee on Social Affairs that is working on these issues. From 1 January 2018, social services in municipalities have an extended responsibility that also includes gambling addiction in their work to prevent and assist with interventions when people suffer from gambling addiction. Finally, the continuing aggressive marketing of gambling companies and the widespread abuse of gambling put a dark shadow over what would be a pleasure for people.
i-f1e166b123e01138-538	Madam President, I would like We are a gambling people, and we have been for many, many years. From the fact that we previously played on trotting, bought lottery tickets and played on traditional games, a lot is happening today via the internet online, for good and bad. We Liberals have been and are driving the need for a policy in this area that creates order and order. And, Madam President, we have been on this road since the new gambling law came into force just over a year ago and are now being further developed with the investigation that is in place and where we are active. Madam President, I would like Games are entertainment, and games should be considered entertainment. Games should be fun and a spice in life. But there are, of course, as many speakers have so painted on the back pages that we must take seriously. Gambling addiction is tantamount to other abuses. The municipalities and regions have a special responsibility to deal with this abuse. It is very good that gambling addicts receive better care and that gambling abuse is now also brought in the municipalities' special responsibility and also in the regions' range of care. That's good. But how do we prevent this? How do we ensure that as few people as possible get into gambling problems? The industry's own control and tools are good. They are partly in place, but they need to be further developed and strengthened. More knowledge and research in this area must be developed, and efforts within municipalities and regions must be further developed and introduced into the mainstream range. Gambling abuse is today one of our fastest growing social problems – we must not forget it. As the previous speaker said, more than 60 000 children today are expected to live with an adult who has gambling problems. If we add to those who live with the consequences of past abuse, the figure is growing very quickly. Gambling abuse, like other addictions, strikes blindly. Not everyone gets hit. As so much else, the risks are greatest for those who are already vulnerable. Living in society's margin, being mentally ill or having other addiction problems also increases the risk of having problems with their gambling. The big difference with other social problems is that this abuse is actually what we are talking about least. It is one of the most taboo, and then we can put in heavy drug use or any other abuse. We have not yet fully realised, Madam President, what this is leaving behind. The gaming industry itself, of course, has a very large responsibility here, and in part you take it. We are pleased by the Liberals that we have a broad consensus here in the Riksdag on a strengthened responsibility. We Liberals will follow this very closely to see what we can come back with and what more we can do in this increasingly important social area. Madam President, I would like It is an important liberal position that a well-functioning market is a well-regulated market. This applies not least to all who operate in the Swedish gaming market. You should have a competent permit, and you should comply with laws and regulations and, not least, act responsibly, and the abuser should be excluded. Market players have high demands on themselves to manage the market and to clean up themselves if necessary. It is therefore extremely important that the new legislation is followed very closely by the government and the authorities in order for developments in the gambling market to go the right way. This applies in particular to the system for carefully and continuously monitoring and measuring the gambling problems, which I have been dealing with, and the public health effects of the reregulation. But it is also a matter of following market effects and other elements, so that a new side of the Wild West does not emerge without us being able to act in time if the system does not work. We do not need to have more bans in this area, whether in terms of marketing or content. But, and that is a big one, if self-cleaning does not work, we on the Liberal side are no stranger to looking further at stricter rules, if necessary. To conclude, Madam President, I will say a few words about the announcement contained in the report by a united committee. During the work of the previous study on the development of the new gaming policy under Hallstedt's leadership, we Liberals called for concrete proposals for a model in which the then funding for both trotting and gallop sports and the broad activities of the horse industry's national foundation, HNS, could be arranged in a re-regulated market. The requirement was for an urgent investigation to be set up at the same time as the introduction of the new law. This happened, too. But judge our surprise when the government has chosen to put so many other parts in the investigation. For years now, the important issue, the core issue, the funding of the horse industry, along with a wide range of other issues and with a timetable that might allow the investigation to land in a report only late in the autumn. In practice, this means that the issue of the funding of equestrian sport, among other important issues but which could have had other timetables, will not be settled until at best in autumn 2021, and a regulatory framework may be in place at the earliest by mid-2022. This, Madam President, is not acceptable. It must certainly be far more rapid than that. A transitional solution with alternative funding may have to be found, but above all we need to disconnect the part about the financing of the horse industry, which is so important for our whole country. Otherwise, Madam President, I support the proposal in the report.
i-f1e166b123e01138-552	Madam President, I would like Today I'm going to talk about match fixing, computer games and e-sports. Match fixing is an illegal manipulation of matches whose purpose may be to achieve huge winnings in the gaming market but also increase the chance for one's team to advance in tournaments. That can easily be described. It should also be added that it is criminal gangs that are responsible for match-fixing and who exploit their victims, players who get caught for the criminals. Match fixing is a topic that has been hotly debated in recent years, not least after the transition to licensing systems on games and our new gaming team from 2019. And yet not all the pieces are in place. Too many parties have different views on how to deal with the problem. Too many gaps exist in existing legislation, which prevents authorities from cooperating and cooperating to prevent match fixing. This must be resolved before it is too late. It is not reasonable for different parties to interpret existing legal texts in different ways. Someone's got to take the lead here. What is good, however, is the player support that has been developed and the cooperation with the police in a game that has already been decided before the start. Our wish is that the parties, i.e. the players in the gaming market, themselves agree on a system that works for everyone. If the problem persists in five years' time, we legislators will probably have to legislate away the problems of gambling on yellow cards and lower divisions. That would be a boring way out. That is precisely why we want the parties to come to an agreement before we resort to legislation. Legislation takes time to develop and even longer to change, even if it concerns a small detail. Our hope is that the parties will continue to meet to find a solution that fits the sport and the players. Everyone who is affected deserves that. Madam President, I would like Match fixing occurs in all sports. Since you, for many completely unawares, subject an entire team, a whole sport or an entire association and not just yourself to a criminal act, it is good that the punishment is already high. However, it should be further tightened – unless otherwise in order to act as a deterrent. In order to remedy criminal activity, the Swedish Democrats generally believe that the punishment must be proportionate to the crime, which means a penalty in relation to today in several areas. We want the government to take strong action on the issue of match fixing so that the problem can be resolved once and for all before there is too much activity within the criminal networks. Madam President, I would like Now for something completely different. The report also treats our motion Computer games as a cultural form. The computer game industry is widely discussed, and there is no doubt that Sweden has a good chance of allowing the Swedish and Nordic computer game industry to take up a great deal of space and convey more messages. We believe that a key to raising the interest of the younger generation in culture, our country, the Nordic region and our history is to meet them in the cultural arena where many of them are already. This is why we have been exercising about setting up a new gambling institute that can coordinate a larger and more long-term effort for the computer gaming industry to create games that exhibit historical environments, culture and nature in the Swedish and Nordic regions. Our ambition is that such a gambling institute should also be a bridge between the Swedish gaming industry and the state and work to make visible any obstacles that the industry encounters so that the business can develop and these obstacles are removed. The Institute can also help the industry to cooperate with other cultural industries and areas. Our goal is that the thriving gaming industry Sweden should already be able to continue its success story and that Sweden should consolidate its position as one of the leaders in the digital gaming world. At the same time, we want to give the Swedish gaming industry another branch that takes this industry into account as an art and cultural form.
i-f1e166b123e01138-564	Madam President, I would like Angelika Bengtsson came to the issues that I raised in my speech and which I find problematic. Therefore, I am now taking the opportunity to debate this with Angelika Bengtsson. It is remarkable that the Swedish Democrats address content issues in this way. When I read and hear about this exercise, it becomes clear that it is not a question of general sector support to stimulate the computer game industry. It is about an already successful industry being steered into the thin Swedish Democrats are interested in when it comes to Swedish environments and Swedish culture. Usually we are talking about arm's length in terms of culture, and this should also apply in this area. Angelika Bengtsson says that the gaming industry is also a form of culture, and then the principles that apply to other culture should also be applied here. We legislators should not be involved in the content in this way. In addition, you want an institute that has the specific task of conducting government gaming design policy regarding, for example, graphic design and what Swedish environments should exist in different games. I think this is serious. You are repeatedly criticized for wanting to govern culture in this way, but then you reject yourself and say that you uphold the principles. I think you should stop defending yourself and stand because you want to use games as a tool for Swedish culture, you want to use selection of library books as a tool to control culture and you want to use public service as a tool. It is clear from your movements, so stand by it! I think it is more honest, and then we can debate what you actually stand for.
i-f1e166b123e01138-569	Madam President, I would like As today's debate concerns gambling issues, I agree with them. E-sporten is a thriving area that we believe can do much more to highlight Sweden and Swedish culture. It can inspire the younger generation to become more interested in our history, our view of society and why Sweden has become as Sweden is today. It's supposed to be a complement. The Swedish Democrats are behind arm's length to apply, even here. The Institute should be a complement that can show what has made Sweden where it is today. I do not understand why it is so controversial to want to lift up our environments, our culture and our nature in a computer game. The e-sport is, as I said, a thriving industry where many players meet, and therefore it is reasonable to lift in the parts that we are proud of. Many tourists come to Sweden thanks to our nature and history. Why not also show this through video and video games?
i-f1e166b123e01138-574	Madam President, I would like Let me clarify what I think is problematic. We have the same discussion on, for example, film. You want films to show more of Nordic and Swedish environments and Swedish history. It is about you wanting politically and controlling the content itself. The gaming industry is a free market, and it must be able to design which games it wants based on what it believes players want and what can be sold. You even want to set aside budgetary resources to steer the game development towards content that interests you politically. I can support tourism or get young people interested in Swedish history, but we should not say politically that games should be designed in a certain way to promote this. If you want to have children interested in history, there are teaching material developers who look at the syllabuses and what children should learn in school when it comes to history. They develop digital learning material that contains game elements because it is something that attracts young people and makes them learn Swedish history better. We in the Education Committee should not decide that Sweden should have a digital learning material that conveys historical environments in a certain way and that Viking times should get 15 minutes and so on. You are far away poking about matters that should not be governed politically. I have been a municipal politician for a long time and have been responsible for activities right under the boards. We never get into the close questions – how-questions – but the Swedish Democrats want to control a variety of cultural areas where games are included, at a level of detail that politicians should stay far away from. We're going to have long arms, and it's the arm's length that's going to apply.
i-f1e166b123e01138-580	Madam President, I would like Again, it should be a complement. I think it's great that there are already funds that highlight our Swedish nature and culture in all different areas. I want it to be even more, and that is precisely what our proposal is about. This concerns the view of what Swedish tax revenue should be spent on. I think that they should, above all, pay attention to what the exercise is about. It will be about making the next generation of children and young people interested in our history, our culture, our cultural heritage and our environment and what has led us to where we are today. We simply have different views on what tax money should be spent on. I think they should go to the attention of Sweden, for those who live in Sweden. This is precisely what our computer game as a cultural form is about: to give inspiration to more people to find a new interest.
i-f1e166b123e01138-583	Madam President, I would like A good education that ensures that our own abilities are developed and developed – an education that leads to jobs and that you act as a good citizen of society – is one of the best gifts we can give our children. That is how I wish it were, but unfortunately it does not look that way. Too many students can't handle comprehensive school with full grades, and even fewer pass high school. We must stop this development. The Moderates want to build a school where all students are encouraged to succeed. We want teachers who act as clear leaders in the classroom and who encourage students' curiosity when it comes to learning and delivering good results. A strong school enables all children to have a common base of knowledge and values, regardless of their background. It allows for class trips. It also lays the foundation for university-level studies and research for a future-oriented business sector in Sweden. A strong school gives people the opportunity to both be free and make their own decisions and to become part of a larger community. It is a moderate school for Sweden. Upper secondary school accounts for an important part of national skills supply. At the same time, statistics from the National Agency for Education show that 17,100 pupils, equivalent to 15.6 per cent of the students who completed grade 9 in spring 2019, did not qualify for upper secondary school. This is absolutely devastating if you sign up to our ambition that it will be possible to make a class trip in Sweden. Foreign born and those without upper secondary education have particular difficulty in getting a first job, which in many cases leads to a long-term dependency on benefits. Upper secondary school also suffers from matching problems, with fewer and fewer people opting for vocational programmes, even though vocational pupils are in great demand in the labour market. Therefore, greater efforts are needed to facilitate the transition of young people to the labour market and to strengthen the contribution of upper secondary school to skills provision, particularly in areas where there is a shortage of skilled labour. True, not all doors are closed to these young people. For those students who do not qualify for upper secondary school, there is the opportunity to study further on one of the five introductory programmes. The academic year 2018/19 read over 50,000 students on an introduction program. The results show that few of the students who start any of these programmes have completed upper secondary education with a degree after five years. This is a waste for society as well as for the individual. More young and newcomers need to be given a better opportunity for a better start in adult life. Therefore, the introduction programmes need to be reformed. Instead of today's ill-functioning introductory programme, the purpose and accessibility of the introductory programmes should be refined. In essence, there should be two orientations: a pre-study, where the aim is to achieve upper secondary school degrees, and a vocational school, where the main aim is good language skills and that the student should receive relevant vocational training. At the same time, the introduction programs shall not close any doors. On the contrary, there should be flexibility between the systems. It should always be possible to choose courses to obtain upper secondary school qualifications and, if you qualify, switch to a upper secondary school programme. In this way, the new vocational school will be both a first way into a profession and a bridge to further deepening and studying. Madam President, I would like Fewer than half of the pupils who immigrated to Sweden after starting school were eligible for upper secondary school in 2016/17. Of the pupils who have been in Sweden for less than four years, fewer than one student in three were eligible. Experience shows that very few of these students will be able to complete a full upper secondary education but also that the introduction programs do not work as intended. That is why we want, alongside today's three-year national upper secondary school programme, to be set up a two-year upper secondary school focusing on professional subjects and, for newcomers, Swedish. It should always be possible to choose courses to obtain upper secondary school qualifications and, if you qualify, switch to a upper secondary school programme. In order to better match students with niche professions where there is a shortage of skilled labour, we Moderates want to see an increased focus on industry schools. This gives companies the opportunity to develop vocational training on their own initiative, or together with an existing school, according to the skills needs of the industry. Furthermore, there is a need for apprenticeship training and the form of upper secondary apprenticeship employment to be developed. Industry schools should be able to be located in strategically selected locations in the country and serve as centres of excellence where the best professional teachers with the latest equipment can gather. At the same time as industry schools are being expanded, it is important to improve study and career guidance in order to enable students to make better and more informed upper secondary school elections and to break the negative trend in vocational education and training choices. As for the teaching period in upper secondary school, the study found that the number of teaching hours is low, and many students testify to many hole hours and teacherless lessons. The National Association of Teachers notes that for their teachers the teaching time may vary by up to 30 percent between schools for the same course content. This, of course, is not acceptable. The typical value corresponds to 86 hours per 100 points, which corresponds to a teaching time of approximately 20 hours per week. This is in line with the guaranteed teaching period, which corresponds to 2 180 hours for the higher education programmes and 2 430 hours for the vocational programmes. Sweden cannot expect to achieve higher results without increasing the number of teaching hours. The Moderates therefore want an investigation to be initiated to ensure that all high school students receive the teaching time to which they are entitled. Madam President, I would like The last area I want to highlight is entrepreneurship in school. Young Enterprise is a non-profit and independent education organisation with the aim of introducing entrepreneurship and a committed business sector into the education system together with the school. Young entrepreneurship helps children and young people to train and develop their creativity, entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship. Practical practice in entrepreneurship has many good effects. As a result, more companies start up later in life, increase the quality of the start-ups and contribute to more women starting up businesses earlier than average. Therefore, we believe that all schools should be able to offer their pupils training on entrepreneurship and the conditions for entrepreneurs, for example through UF entrepreneurship or other organisers. It is particularly important that such courses are given in upper secondary school vocational programmes where many pupils start businesses after their upper secondary school studies. Finally, Madam President, we naturally support all our party and committee movements, but I would like to ask for reservation 1 only in paragraph 1.
i-f1e166b123e01138-598	Madam President, I would like First of all, allow me to endorse reservation 2. The task of upper secondary school is to prepare the future students for future educations at universities and higher education institutions or to take the step into the labour market. It is a great responsibility for the country's upper secondary schools to manage this task as well as possible. Without a good knowledge base, it will be difficult to absorb high-level studies, and without sufficient professional knowledge, the entry into the labour market becomes more difficult. However, upper secondary school is not a separate part of the education chain that has only to provide well-educated students to higher education and working life. It is also highly dependent on what happens in primary school. The problems and shortcomings of comprehensive school therefore also lead to the problems and shortcomings of upper secondary school. Sweden is highly dependent on a world-class upper secondary school. Rapid technological developments place high demands on future working lives. In order not to lose competitiveness, we have to have prominent researchers and scientists who can ensure that Sweden does not lag behind in international competition. A well-functioning upper secondary school is the basis for this. Therefore, the objectives and the level of ambition of upper secondary school should be substantially increased. It will take time, but it is important that it is done. If we're going to analyze high school, we can do it in three different phases. The first concerns the transition from primary school. The second relates to the course of training and the design of the training. The third relates to the results of upper secondary education and transition to universities, higher education institutions and working life. I'm gonna sketch this out a little bit. I believe that, in general, in every school debate in which I have participated over the last 10 to 15 years, whether it has been at municipal level or in this House, I have pointed out that primary school has not delivered. It's not delivering. Too many students– I would say a very large proportion of pupils– leave comprehensive school without sufficient knowledge. In the kingdom in total, approximately one in four students goes out with incomplete grades – 24.5 percent. Anyone who does not find this remarkable should give some thought. Thus, 24.5 per cent of pupils leave comprehensive school with incomplete grades. Of course this gets bearing in high school. In addition, 15 per cent of the students, 17 400 of the 112 700 from spring semester 2019, had not passed Swedish, English and mathematics. Therefore, they were unauthorized to all upper secondary school programmes. These are the entry values that we have to work with when it comes to upper secondary school. Then we should also bear in mind that there are municipalities where the results are significantly worse than that. It does not take Einstein to realize that this will not work in the long run. We Swedish democrats have stated in most debates that the upper secondary school has criticized primary school for handing over pupils with insufficient basic skills, even though the students have passed grades. Time and effort must be put into the upper secondary school to repair the lack of prior knowledge, and it is not the upper secondary school's job to do so. Upper secondary school cannot be supposed to do what we assume primary school can do. Let me be clear, therefore, that the Upper Secondary School in Sweden Democrats' Sweden should not be a repair shop of any kind. Every school form has to take responsibility for its students. The primary school should be able to deliver. Upper secondary school will be engaged in education that belongs to upper secondary school. It should be able to rely on the students who receive a passing grade in comprehensive school also having the necessary prior knowledge. The problem of comprehensive school joy certificates also presents difficulties for students to pass upper secondary school studies. They are tricked into believing that they will be able to cope with high school when, in fact, they do not. We have been talking about this for so many years and we now want to see a change. We want to see strong action taken to remedy this situation, and we will continue to push this issue much harder against the government. Another child of mourning is the introduction programs, that is, the programs that will give unauthorized students an opportunity to get into a national program or to get a job. The introduction programmes have been the subject of a long series of experiments for several years. Neither have the target groups in the various programmes followed the guidelines set. Quality has often been poor, and students have not received the right education. It has not been better for people who do not even have the right to remain in the country to be put into these programmes. Basically, it is unfortunate that these programmes fall under the responsibility of the upper secondary school. In fact, it should be the primary school that is responsible for them and who is responsible for the pupils until they have become eligible for upper secondary school. The current introduction programmes have only been up and running since the summer. I therefore hope that we will see changes and that the four new introduction programmes introduced from 1 July 2019 will receive bearings, but I am sceptical. Leave me alone. The most deprived is the programme of language introduction, i.e. the programme aimed at pupils who have just arrived in Sweden. I think it's good to have a strong focus on the Swedish language. However, education must also be more adapted to the real situation. The differences in prior knowledge between the students in this group are extremely large. Some have been trained before, while others do not. We therefore propose in our motion that there should be a division into two levels of the language introduction programme – one for those who have completed primary education and one for those who do not. Madam President, I would like Sweden had until about 25 years ago a design of upper secondary education that was very strongly based on knowledge progression and educational ideals. The rules of the game changed, and the current course-designed upper secondary school with course grades was introduced. It was basically a very radical change in Swedish school history. Instead of studying, for example, the subject of social science over three academic years, the subject would now be divided into smaller courses. Nor is it certain that a subject will be read coherently over all three years. The effect has been that students have become more stressed. They are stressed about the rating situation, about managing these small courses and how to handle the situation if they do not pass a course and then move on to the next. This also means that students sometimes find it difficult to keep up with the education. Not least, this is shown in the subject of mathematics, which is usually highlighted as a typical example of the course-shaped upper secondary school having a major error built in. For a number of years, there has been talk of a return to subject ratings. We think that's a good thing. But then it is also important that there is a return to pure subject grades, so that the usual Swedish social engineering doesn't strike again and find something mischmasch, ie some half-measures or hybrid form that will not work, for example that you introduce subject grades but still have a course-shaped upper secondary school. It's not gonna work. The introduction of subject ratings must also mean that we return to a subject-designed secondary school. I hope that the ongoing investigation that deals with these issues will dare to take this step and say that we are setting a parenthesis on the last 25 years. This would be beneficial for pupils and teachers and, above all, it would strengthen the educational perspective in school. The Swedish Democrats also advocate that upper secondary school, just like primary school, should have a state headship. In this respect, we are not nearly as impressed by the discussions that have taken place regarding the planning and dimensioning of the future upper secondary school. In the debate it has been said that the state should be given increased responsibility but that municipalities should still be the principals of municipal schools, in order to strengthen equivalence. We don't believe it at all. We do not believe that this will strengthen equivalence. Today, municipalities interpret the headship in different ways. This can be seen, among other things, in the fact that different municipalities make different priorities. Resources are spent in the municipal budget in different ways in different municipalities. We believe that priority should be given to national objectives, ambitions and requirements. Let me therefore be clear: the Swedish democrats will never ever support a reform that does not involve a state headship. In addition, state leadership would strengthen the role of teachers and school leaders and make it more attractive to become teachers. We also believe that state ownership would strengthen the development of knowledge, as the visions and objectives of governance documents are given a clearer and stronger status. Upper secondary school must also offer more alternatives to those students who do not complete their education. There is far too little talk of this in the debate. The spring semester 2019 was just over 20 per cent, i.e. more than one student in five, who did not complete their studies or who graduated from high school with incomplete grades. We therefore believe that study and career guidance must be strengthened in order to ensure that these students end up in the right education. Otherwise, there is a high risk of them getting caught up in long-term unemployment. However, this is not enough. Upper secondary school must also offer shorter programmes for those who are tired of school or lack motivation to study theoretical subjects in upper secondary school. We therefore propose the reintroduction of two-year practical secondary programmes. Anyone who wants to then of course should be able to supplement the education with a third year. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, we Swedish democrats want to see a high school that is characterized by education and knowledge progression. We want a state-owned headmanship, pure subject grades and a subject-designed high school. We want shorter upper secondary school programmes for school-tired and unmotivated students and a strengthened study and career guidance. We also want to tier the language introduction programme and increase the requirements for comprehensive school to ensure that it hands over pupils with sufficient and expected knowledge. We also have a number of other proposals concerning high school, but we will come back to them in a debate later in the spring.
i-f1e166b123e01138-618	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Center Party's reservation No 6 on study and career guidance. Completed upper secondary school studies are a door opener for both work and further studies. During this academic year, more than 350 000 students attend upper secondary school, and the vast majority of students are met with good teaching – by skilled teachers and principals who provide them with stimulating teaching. But not everyone in high school is doing well. Too many leave upper secondary school without a complete grade, which creates worse conditions for work and further studies. Today, one in four high school students drop out of school or leave school without a full grade. The basis for more people leaving upper secondary school with a complete grade is laid in comprehensive school. It is about ensuring that more students are qualified for upper secondary school at all and also about ensuring that more students make the right choices from the start. Errors resulting in the change of upper secondary school programmes often come at the price of one or two years of re-studies – or of further studies. According to an estimate from the Swedish National Agency for Education in 2017, the error rate represents a cost of over SEK 2 billion per year. Error choices affect not only individuals, who have to spend more time on studies, but also the mismatches in the labour market in Sweden. Therefore, the link between jobs and entrepreneurship on the one hand and studies on the other needs to be strengthened. Students need better information to be able to make the right choices right from the start, and we need to create better interaction between the labour market and studies so that more people can make the right – and well-informed – choices. It is important to strengthen the role of guidance officers in this work. Madam President, I would like The Center Party wants to see more proposals to link education and work better. It is important whether you study a theoretical programme or a more professional programme. If we look at the labour market as a whole, we see that there are some common denominators, namely that companies and employers shout for competent staff. This applies not least to education and skills at upper secondary level. That is why we need to make vocational training more attractive, so that more people choose professional programmes from the outset. The Center Party wants to see the possibility of three different specialisations in the professional programmes – one where the focus is to strengthen professional competence, one where the focus is to give students general university qualifications and one where the focus is on specific eligibility. In this way, access to vocational programmes is created for those who want to prepare for higher education and higher education and for those who want to focus on the professions. The high quality of professional programmes and their design with companies is a key to strengthening attractiveness. It is therefore important that the companies that are potential employers – and also the public sector, when it comes to this type of training – are also involved in designing and implementing the training courses. It is about getting a better connection and thus strengthening the status. For the Center Party, it is also important that upper secondary apprenticeships be expanded, broadened and strengthened. It is gratifying that the number of students studying apprenticeships has increased in recent years, but, compared to other countries, developments are too slow. This needs to be further strengthened. Madam President, I would like For the Center Party, it is important to enable more students to study entrepreneurship during upper secondary school studies. Entrepreneurship is about developing ideas and translating them into something that creates value. I think that everyone in this House, as well as those who listen at some point, has come across an UF company and bought a product or service that you did not know there was a need for, but which you later actually realised you needed. Sometimes even the opposite has happened, that is to say that you have acted something that you thought you needed but that later turned out you do not need. Entrepreneurship and Young Enterprise are an important part of giving young high school students the opportunity to test their ideas and see what it means to run and develop a business. It's about everything from product development and service development to getting people to buy the products. The research shows that those who have run UF companies have better conditions later in life – they tend to earn more money, they have lower unemployment and it is more likely that they want to run companies later in life. That is an impressive result. What is even more impressive about Young Enterprise is that this year we are once again seeing a new record for the number of students running a UF company. A total of 33 706 high school students run an UF company just this academic year, which is an increase of over 2 000 students since last year. This is positive, but depending on both the upper secondary school programme and the school you go to, we see big differences in the conditions for taking a course in entrepreneurship and through Young Enterprise test running a company. This is what the Center Party wants to change. Entrepreneurship should be possible to choose from all schools and programmes. This is an important issue on which we will continue to work.
i-f1e166b123e01138-629	Madam President, I would like The discussions on how to deal with the situation that has arisen with the Corona virus sometimes remind me of the discussions about the school. A good example is the extreme hunting of profits that exists in Swedish high school today and which has existed for decades: In the case of Corona, doctors say one thing while bourgeois politicians go out and say another, and in the case of extreme privatisation, experts and scientists say one thing while the bourgeoisie goes out and says the opposite. There are great similarities. When the free school reform was to be introduced, the argument was that it would lead to more parents and staff setting up cooperatives. In fact, an example of a school was used in my county of Dalarna. There the parents joined forces because the municipal school — the village school — had been shut down, and they chose to make it a parent cooperative. With this argumentation they managed to bring about a reform that would have consequences for not least the Swedish upper secondary school. This did not only have consequences in the 1990s, but we see that it has bigger and worse consequences for every day that goes by. The school has become a market, and students are seen as customers. I know that some bourgeois politicians think I am nagging on this issue, but I think it is important to point out the following: whether we are nationalising the school, which the Left Party is behind, and whether we are looking to better study and career guidance and better student health, as the Left Party is behind, there is a need for a system change in which the resources we pay through our common tax money also go to the schools for which they are intended – not to the CEO of Academedia. Madam President, I would like Upper secondary school is a voluntary school form, but at the same time a upper secondary school degree is by far the most important key to the labour market and to an adult life with its own livelihood and good health. Therefore, the mission and working methods of upper secondary school need to be clearly based on the objective that everyone should complete upper secondary or equivalent education in other forms of school. Significantly greater efforts need to be made to get all young people to start and complete upper secondary education. This can be done, among other things, by strengthening the special educational work within the school form, through greater flexibility in the organisation and design of the education, but also through continuous development work in close cooperation with universities and higher education institutions. The Left Party also wants closer cooperation between upper secondary school and the social partners. Upper secondary school needs to have a wide range of programmes and orientations so that the opportunities to attend an education in an area that arouses your interest are good. Both vocational programmes and preparatory programmes will provide basic eligibility for higher education studies. Choosing a vocational programme at the age of 16 should enable you to either go directly into work after your studies or continue to study at a university, university or university of applied sciences. Like primary school, upper secondary school has a mission to educate conscious citizens. Therefore, the focus on education and democracy within the Swedish upper secondary school needs to be strengthened. Accessing education in aesthetic subjects is beneficial for the individual's development and learning and is important also in upper secondary school, just as in primary school. Therefore, aesthetic subjects should be reintroduced into all upper secondary programmes. Madam President, I would like The structure of upper secondary school with the various programmes carries an inherent risk of hierarchies and gender segregation. There needs to be a conscious effort to break these hierarchies and increase the status of professional programmes and to break gender stereotype educational choices. All programmes would benefit from a better mix of students with different backgrounds and genders. Then those who dare to choose unconventional education must be supported and practice designed so that all students have the right to the same safe learning environment. Madam President, I would like The Left Party wants to see a subject-designed secondary school with subject grades instead of today's course grades. There must be an opportunity for students to be examined on the basis of the progression in their knowledge development rather than according to the system we have today, where the scoring system is based on courses. At the same time, the subject content must be clear so that all students can continuously follow their knowledge development. Madam President, I would like I would like to raise the issue of nationalisation. We've seen several investigations into the school's headship come and go. There is currently an assignment on the location and dimensioning of upper secondary school. I believe, however, that the issue does not resolve itself by dimensioning it on the basis of a regional principle, but must be transferred to the state level. I would also like to raise another important issue. It is about the reductions that take place around the country, in the majority of the country's municipalities, at upper secondary school. I think we all need to take this issue very seriously. We have already seen how many municipalities are making major cuts to the Swedish upper secondary school, and this will get worse if we do not all make sure to spend more resources on the municipalities. Madam President, I would like I would like to raise a subject which may be a little strange for the Committee on Education but which is still part of our area. In the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's report Enhanced evaluation of environmental objectives in 2019, several authorities presented a number of proposals to the Government to strengthen the possibilities of achieving the environmental objectives that we have said we support. The authorities, including the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish National Agency for Civil Protection and the Swedish Armed Forces, suggested that a pilot study should be carried out in which the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency tests to continuously produce emergency food in a sustainable way based on the local cycles. The proposal is justified by the fact that fossil- and non-toxic food production based on domestic production of inputs would dramatically reduce import dependence and thus increase resistance to disturbances. Technical solutions to switch to a fossil-free farm exist today, but insufficient quantities of either alternative fuels or manure are produced to make a transition. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish National Agency for Education and several other authorities believe that positive effects on the environment can be achieved through the proposal. In addition to stimulating local fossil- and non-toxic production, genetic diversity can also be stimulated and the use of alternative farming methods increased. We therefore believe that the government should commission the relevant authorities to carry out a pilot study in which natural-use schools test to produce emergency food on a sustainable basis based on the local cycles. In this connection, I would like to call for the approval of Amendment No 5 by the Left Party.
i-f1e166b123e01138-647	Madam President, I would like We have an extremely serious social problem in Sweden. But that is a problem that we will not hear the Moderate Leader Kristersson raise. It's a problem that he probably won't post a text about on Facebook with a picture with hunting clothes on. The problem is called increasing gaps. The development is by no means unique to Sweden, but the gaps are growing faster here than in many other countries. And that leads to big problems. The fact that insecurity has grown at the same time as the gaps is not a coincidence. It's connected. The research is crystal clear: The communities with great economic differences are societies that drift apart. Then insecurity grows, when crime thrives, and then trust between people and trust in institutions decreases. It is under these circumstances that scapegoats are found. That is where xenophobia germinates and misinformation is spread. Today we should talk more about the basic problem and what we are doing about it and less about populist quickfixes. The government has strengthened the police with historical resources and tightened the penalties. It's necessary, and it's good. But the most important thing we can do to reverse insecurity is long-term and preventive work. And that work begins in the classroom. The construction of equal society always begins, always with our children and our young people. Equality is the foundation of self-realization and freedom, of security and of the strong society that holds together. Madam President, I would like I am the product of the strong society. The Swedish education system is why I stand here today as a legislator – as a member of the Swedish Parliament. My school and my high school didn't care about the size of my parents' wallet. It didn't matter who I was; the important thing was where I wanted to go. It is the finest thing about Sweden: the Social Democratic welfare system, the public and free school and the lifelong learning where everyone can realize their dreams. The welfare state has not built itself. It has come about through political decisions, by the Swedish Social Democracy. It was only in 1970 that the Riksdag adopted a curriculum for upper secondary school and the form of upper secondary school was introduced in Sweden. Until then, the opportunity to take a matriculation examination was almost an opportunity for a small successful elite. We've come a long way, but that doesn't mean we're done. We need to move on with the construction and strengthen the school system. The next step is to reduce the gaps. The choices made when a person is 15 years old should not be a limitation for an entire lifetime. The upper secondary school must enrich you with equal opportunities for lifelong learning, regardless of whether you are studying a theoretical orientation or a professional line. That is not what it looks like today. The Government of Reinfeldt made sure to introduce lower admission requirements for professional programmes compared to the theoretical orientations and also ensured that the requirements for professional programmes to also grant higher education qualifications were removed. It's unfortunate. Applying for vocational training has become less attractive. The number of applications has fallen by one third in a couple of years, and at the same time welfare and industry are screaming for skills and labour. It makes no sense to me. Upper secondary school should be a place that gives students a chance at a chance, not a starting bridge for lock-in effects. Madam President, I would like 60 per cent of the members of the Riksdag are to the right of the Social Democrats. This makes many of our proposals for more progressive policies and more equality policies difficult to implement. Misunderstand me correctly: I am pleased that we have a partnership with MP, C and L that enables us to take responsibility for Sweden in a difficult parliamentary situation. The most gratifying thing is that we are spending resources on welfare and special resources to increase equality through the so-called equivalence grant, that we are putting an end to new religious free schools, that we are now moving forward with efforts to increase the security and study capacity of our pupils in schools, that we are investing resources in more teachers and teachers' assistants and that we are facilitating teacher training throughout the country. The January Agreement thus allows Sweden to move in the right direction. Having said that, it is no secret that I, as a Social Democrat, want more. The prize hunt in schools increases the divides in society. It has to be stopped. However, the right-wing conservative bloc seems more interested in protecting the pursuit of profit than in investing in welfare. It is a road that leads to increased school segregation and to thousands of young people in our country not getting the schooling to which they are entitled. School companies invest in students who are profitable. They establish themselves in municipalities and neighbourhoods where it is possible to fill the places in order to later make a profit. The answer to these challenges cannot be more market. The answer is to create a knowledge school that manages the compensatory task. As many as 40 percent of the ninth graders in particularly vulnerable areas will never qualify for upper secondary school qualification. We know that without upper secondary education there is a high risk of unemployment. At the same time, PISA and other international measurements show that Swedish school is now on its way back to top-class knowledge. We are now investing in the school for increased knowledge, greater equality and more teachers. It gives results, and we should be proud of that. At the same time, however, we see that equality in school is still stagnating, and we cannot accept that. Now we have to hold on and keep investing in school. Sweden has had one of the world's most high-performance and equal school systems – that is where we will again! Madam President, I would like It is easy to forget or to repress our history, the struggle required to get to where we are today. Perhaps it is human to take our rights and opportunities for granted, without giving a thought to the way that carried us here. It took a century to build up equal Sweden, but it is very fast to destroy it. A cornerstone of the construction of the strong society has been that in the classroom the young worker and the banker's youth meet under equal conditions. When the right wind blows in Sweden and in the outside world, when more and more of the political debate is about harder and tougher penalties, we forget the bigger picture – that the future belongs to our young people and that it is our responsibility to give every student in Sweden the tools needed to reach their dreams. That's how we narrow the gaps. This is how we build a safe and sustainable Sweden. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-f1e166b123e01138-668	Madam President, I would like As I sat here listening to Mr AylinFazelian speech, I expected us to hear somewhere the concrete proposals on the path to be taken to achieve the objectives of the Social Democrats. However, I could see that there were never any concrete proposals. Most were general terms about things that were not good and that other things were better in the past. It would be interesting to hear a little about what, more than attacks on welfare gains, which the Social Democrats are actually pushing on school issues. I also heard Aylin Fazelian say that the matriculation examination before was something for a successful elite. I wonder in what decade we are moving with that description and how relevant it is for 2020. Aylin Fazelian also said that the school must give a chance at a chance. Then I wonder: Does Aylin Fazelian think that a student also has a certain responsibility for his education, that is to say that when you go to high school you can also take responsibility for the education you are taking and for the tax money that is actually spent on the voluntary education that it is anyway? It would be interesting to hear Aylin Fazelian develop this with the chance of chance on chance linked to it. Finally, I heard Aylin Fazelian say that increasing gaps and insecurity were the major problems. Then I immediately ask the question: What has caused this in modern times? Can Aylin Fazelian give an answer to that?
i-f1e166b123e01138-672	Madam President, I would like There are many questions from the Swedish Democrats here. What became very clear to me was really two things. One is that the Member of the Swedish Democrats apparently did not listen when I spoke. The second is that the Member of the Swedish Democrats makes it very clear that you are a party far to the right. The honourable Member says that it is a responsibility for the students to respect our tax funds and that students need to make sure that they get their education together. Of course we should have high expectations of our students – absolutely! But it becomes clear that you are a party far to the right when you do not see how much socio-economic factors are related to school performance. It is our responsibility, we who sit here in the Swedish Parliament, to ensure that every child is given the opportunity to pass the school. It is no coincidence that as much as 40% of pupils in particularly vulnerable areas do not qualify for upper secondary school qualifications. That is why we need to talk about more resources for schools with major challenges and more resources for pupils with special needs. We must also work to reduce the gaps. I was specific in my speech, although the honourable Member did not think so. I pointed out that we are investing in equivalence. I pointed out that we are now investing in facilitating teacher training throughout the country so that the school will work throughout Sweden. I pointed out that we are investing resources for teaching assistants and for strengthening the knowledge objectives. The question that should perhaps be asked is: What is school policy like in the world of Swedish Democrats?
i-f1e166b123e01138-676	Madam President, I would like That question could have been answered by Aylin Fazelian if she had put it to me in a line. She could not do that, but I am sure that opportunity will come back at another time. I note that the answer we receive is about resources. The idea of the Social Democracy is, as we have stated before, that money solves the problems. But it's not like that. Aylin Fazelian is constantly talking about more resources. In Malmö city where I come from, a huge amount of money has been invested in schools in the exclusion areas, and this has not always produced good results. Not always. That is to say, there is no link between more money and better results, but something else is required. We need objectives, ambitions, attitudes and, in some cases, reforms. That is what I always miss when the Social Democrats discuss school issues. Everything is for them about money or profits in welfare but little about ambitions, goals and visions of the future. I'd like to hear more about that. I think it would be good for the school debate if the Social Democrats could get more involved in this. There was a question here that I did not really get an answer, and this was the case with increasing gaps and insecurity. I was kind enough to ask the question quite generally: What could have caused this in the near future? I will be a little more specific in my question to Aylin Fazelian because I did not get a clear answer. When it comes to insecurity and increased gaps, as the left-wing movement calls it, in Swedish school, I wonder: Does Aylin Fazelian see any connection between the failed migration policy for which she and her party are responsible and the problems that characterise the school today?
i-f1e166b123e01138-679	Madam President, I would like In the Swedish Democrats' analysis, everything that is wrong in society and in the world is about refugees. In my view, it is tragic that a party can show both such a huge lack of humanism and solidarity and an incredibly short-term policy that does not take research or reality into account at all. The Member of the Swedish Democrats asked why the gaps are growing in Sweden. I would say that it is because the bourgeoisie has reduced the tax time and time again and that the Swedish Democrats did so only last year when they voted for the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. Then there were huge tax cuts in welfare, leading to a worse school, a worse health care and a worse secondary school, which we talked about here. This, in turn, leads to an increase in economic disparities when resources do not go where they are most needed. That is the reason for growing gaps, and it is also the socio-economic explanation that I point out – not immigration that the Swedish Democrats are so incredibly obsessed with talking about all the time. In fact, I would like an answer to what I did not have time to ask in my previous reply, namely the school policy of the Swedish Democrats. It is clear that in the municipalities where you rule, you take the opportunity to further reduce taxes and close school libraries and close down native language education, which clearly leads to better school performance in other subjects and in other directions. Please take this opportunity to tell us about your school policy rather than just screw up that it is all the immigrants' fault.
i-f1e166b123e01138-683	Madam President, I would like In today's society, it is largely necessary to have a secondary school education in order to get around in life. Although a future task in itself does not require that competence, many employers see it as an alarming signal if an applicant does not have grades from upper secondary school. Regardless of which programme you choose, high school years and those studies contribute to knowledge and education that the person benefits from for his or her own development. In addition, research shows that completed studies are the strongest protection against exclusion in the form of reduced risk of unemployment, long-term illness and economic and social exclusion. Much would therefore be gained by giving children and young people a broader and more multifaceted picture of the breadth of professional activities offered by working life. It may be late in grade 9 for the high school elections to start thinking about what is the dream profession, how to get there and what other options could be possible if talent and talent are not enough. The assignments of study and career advisers need to be changed. Today, it is largely understood as providing guidance to the student up to the dream profession regardless of personal circumstances or the needs of the labour market. The guidance needs to be to a greater extent to find appropriate study and vocational training related to the needs of the labour market, based on the student's or student's interest and ability. Regular presentations of representatives of different professions combined with the now restored praon are important during primary school years. This should be complemented to a greater extent by the possibility of more regular meetings with study and career advisers in groups or on a case-by-case basis. This information also needs to be more closely linked to the sectors and occupations in which it is possible to find a job. The 2.5 billion Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates and the Left Party, can be used to benefit more employees at school, including study and career counselors. This would give children and young people a better overall picture of the labour market and different choices. In this way, more students could avoid mischoices to upper secondary and higher education, and they would get out of work more quickly. Madam President, I would like Equally important, of course, is study and vocational guidance during upper secondary school and in lifelong learning for all those studying in adult education. Sweden faces a lack of competence in almost all professions, not least in industry and crafts. There are a great many jobs in these areas. Unfortunately, too few young people choose a vocational programme in high school. Many young people have a wrong idea of what it means to work in a workshop or in an industry. Study visits and prao are important opportunities to give a more nuanced and realistic picture of the profession. Information for young people needs to show that vocational training often provides guaranteed jobs after education and often also summer jobs during studies. These include, in particular, nature conservation training, which provides a basis for agricultural and forestry work. Unfortunately, agricultural training is difficult to attract young people, which in the long term is a threat to Sweden's already low level of self-sufficiency in food. Green industries therefore need to be highlighted as a sector of the future. This is highlighted by the Christian Democrats in committee motion 2019/ 20:2760 by Magnus Oscarsson and others about strengthening agricultural education. Madam President, I would like Since the Christian Democrats' proposals are being prepared in a simplistic way, I am abstaining from putting forward any motion here, but I naturally support all our proposals.
i-f1e166b123e01138-691	Madam President, I would like Liberals' motions are also prepared in a simplified way, but we naturally support the specific opinions we make in the report of the Committee on Education. Several colleagues have considered the importance of comprehensive school and not least how important it is for more pupils to leave comprehensive school with passed grades and get eligibility for upper secondary school. In spring 2019, 17,600 pupils left compulsory comprehensive school without eligibility for a national upper secondary school programme. It's a huge failure. I would like to emphasise what has been said about the fact that it is extremely important that comprehensive school does its part of the job and that it is not possible to postpone responsibility to middle and secondary school and then on to the introduction programmes and finally, if we are lucky, to high school. Madam President, I would like That is why we have today presented an investigation directive which the Liberals have negotiated with the Government. It concerns holiday school and extended compulsory schooling for new arrivals. Lovskolan should be offered and be an obligation for those pupils who are at risk of not becoming eligible for upper secondary school. It is a work to be prepared and developed within a year. It is important to get into a national programme and get through upper secondary school. We see continued quality problems and throughput problems in high school. However, I do not want to be gloomy in my entire speech. If we look at the results in upper secondary school in general, we can see that the proportion of young people and pupils with approved results is increasing. We've seen that in the last few years. So I do not recognise what has been presented in several speeches. It reminds me of when I arrived in Parliament almost nine years ago. Then we also debated these things. But things have happened in nine years. And it's gone in the right direction. Unlike some parties, including the Social Democrats, I do not want to turn the clock and politics back to before 2010 and 2011. At that time, there was a large drop-out and a larger number of drop-outs. There were insufficient demands for young people to enter the national programme of upper secondary school. At that time it was enough with approval in three subjects: math, Swedish and English. Now it takes seven subjects to be adopted for a professional programme and twelve subjects to enter a study preparatory programme. Yes, there was a marginal decrease last autumn, 2019. But in recent years we have seen a trend break in the search pressure for vocational upper secondary education. That is extremely positive. The last time there were 4,700 more students who applied for the upper secondary school vocational programme. Approximately 37 - 38 per cent apply for upper secondary school vocational education. It is important and positive and something we should welcome. Not all of them are eligible to enter a professional programme. This may mean that the percentage actually assumed is slightly lower. The share of those who have gone through their vocational programme is now higher than, for example, in 2010 and 2011. Around 72 per cent complete vocational training, take a vocational qualification and hopefully get a job. That is the aim of vocational training. No one is addressing the important developments in this House, Madam President. No, we're not gonna go back and lower the standards to get into high school. We are definitely not going to go back and loosen it, but we are going to re-theorise and introduce requirements for university qualifications in professional programmes. It is not even a matter in the report that we are debating today. Nor is there any support for the opinion of the Social Democrats, either in this House or in the government's cooperation with the Center Party and the Liberals, to go back to the policies that took out at least 30% of the pupils in the vocational programmes. They were thrown into unemployment and exclusion. We should not go back to that policy. Madam President, I would like What is serious and to be mentioned in conclusion are developments in the introduction programmes. I would like to remind the government parties that, exactly a year ago, the Education Committee announced to the government, i.e. a call from the parliamentary majority, to come back with a proposal for two-year vocational schools. Some colleague's been into it. There is already a parliamentary decision that the Government will deliver a proposal to the Riksdag for a two-year vocational school. I want a message from the Social Democrats today about where that announcement has gone. We demand that you come back with a proposal for two-year professional programmes. It's important, not least for the group of unauthorized people. Today, they fall into the different orientations of the introduction programmes. There we see big drop-outs, 18% in some directions and 10% in the career introduction. They also have the right to have an adapted education based on their needs and conditions to complete upper secondary school and then get into working life.
i-f1e166b123e01138-702	Madam President, I would like Some people may think I'm here to protect the government parties who got some questions, but I'm not. However, I am always fascinated by the Liberals. Even though they themselves have been in power, and even though they are working with the government which they are scolding out of the pulpit today, they are pretending that this is not the case. The liberals pretend that they are a party that is in opposition and has contributed to everything that is good with the Swedish school. All that is bad, they have no responsibility. I would like to ask a question that I have asked a number of times before. It is about the view of nationalisation. The Liberals and the Left Party agree that the school should be nationalised. I wonder how a school should be nationalized if the prize hunt within the Swedish school should remain. It's something I can't get together. For me, nationalization of the school means that the school's principal is the state. Liberals say they want to nationalize the school, but at the same time they think that Academedia's billionaires, CEO and owner, should be part of the headship of the Swedish school. I don't really see how it works. I would like Roger Haddad to explain to me how a nationalisation and a defence of the prize hunt in Swedish school, which involves stealing money from our schools and children, can go together.
i-f1e166b123e01138-705	Madam President, I would like I will be kind to Daniel Riazat, because nationalisation is not at all the subject of today's debate. It is certainly not in the motion reports of the members of the Swedish Parliament that we are discussing today. 75 per cent of comprehensive school pupils attend municipal schools and 70 per cent of upper secondary school pupils attend municipal upper secondary schools. As for my criticism of the government, I can say that there is no cooperation in the January agreement on upper secondary school, with the exception of the fact that we want to introduce subject marks. It has also made recurring announcements to this government about a parliamentary majority. I recall, of course, our announcement of a two-year vocational school for those who are not qualified for high school. These are precisely the issues we are dealing with and discussing today, not the nationalisation of schools. I would be happy to return to that question when the time comes. Unlike the Left Party, we have managed to negotiate with this government and have received a point in the January agreement to produce a basis for decision. Our entrance is that it is the public-run primary and secondary schools that the state should take over. We certainly do not want to close free schools, which you want to do, Daniel Riazat. There is also no support for your line in the Swedish Parliament. But I would be happy to take that debate when we get that far.
i-f1e166b123e01138-710	Madam President, I would like Mr. Roger Haddad doesn't have to be nice to me. This issue is serious. Although there is no proposal on nationalisation or similar in the general exercise time, I think that is relevant. One party says that they want to nationalize the Swedish school but at the same time think it is good that billionaires shoes themselves on our students and staff. Then one must be held accountable, especially when one belongs to a party that had the Ministry of Education for eight years and believes that the taxes for the rich must be reduced and that it must be cut down on the Swedish school. Then you have a responsibility to answer those questions. Like the audience, the Members and those watching the debate at home, there was no answer to the question. There is no answer, because it is not possible to nationalise a school with the pursuit of profits left in the system. The claim that the Left Party would like to close free schools is not true. I think Roger Haddad and everyone knows that. This issue is about the resources going where they are intended, to our children, students, staff and school, and not to Roger Haddad's friends, who may run independent schools for profit. I would like to ask Roger Haddad again, and I think it is respectful to answer questions. How does nationalization fit with your defense of the billionaires who are stealing our tax money today by running bad and under-standard schools?
i-f1e166b123e01138-714	Madam President, I would like It is remarkable that the Left Party does not have a single proposal on the issues that we have debated today and which are the subject of this House's discussion on high school. It's about how to increase throughput, increase quality, reduce drop-outs and solve integration problems in the introduction program for new arrivals with shorter education. It is also about how we get new arrivals into working life and how we get more people to pass high school so that they get a chance to get into the university. You have nothing. You have not put a single proposal on Parliament's table to increase the proportion of those who are qualified for higher education or those who want to enter the labour market. That's remarkable. I sincerely hope that the audience will listen to what we have said, Madam President. Unlike the Left Party, I have just said that it is the public primary and secondary schools that we see could be a model for a state headship. There was news today that the Left Party does not want to close down all free schools. It's probably the first time I've heard it in my almost 20 years as a school politician. The question will now be investigated. Unlike the Left Party, which failed to speed up the issue of state authority in the years in which they co-operated with the government during the previous parliamentary term, we in the Liberals have got a point on it in the January agreement. This is the first time in 30 years that we have seriously approached the issue of developing a decision-making basis for a government headship. It happens thanks to the Liberals.
i-f1e166b123e01138-719	Madam President, I would like I listened to the previous speaker who spoke warmly for Swedish school and said that the school is doing well. I want to continue there and fill in: Swedish school is doing well. For example, we saw this in the PISA measurement that came last autumn. It showed that Swedish students continue to perform better and better in school. We are now at a level above the OECD average in all three subject areas. PISA measures primary and secondary schools in particular. But the education system, from preschool up, is a coherent system. Now the quality is strengthened throughout the system through important political decisions starting with, for example, the Reading Lift and the Reading-Calculating Guarantee for the younger ones. It keeps going up at the age. Everybody's coming. "No student should be left behind, and anyone who wants to be able to run ahead," said the Prime Minister in the Government Declaration. In fact, I would like to finish my speech here, because I think it is important to point out that we should be proud of our teachers, good principals and talented students in the Swedish education system, the Swedish school and upper secondary school. But I have a script to stick to. Madam President, I would like Of course there are some problems. Equivalence must be improved. We're going to have an equal education system. That is not the case today. This was also shown by the PISA survey for schools of 15-year-olds. This applies between different parts of the country with municipalities that have different conditions but also within the municipalities, between different schools and upper secondary schools. The government is now taking action. The equality grant to municipalities continues, and we turn the settings on so that it is better adapted to the conditions. We will have a strong focus on training more qualified and good teachers and subject teachers. It should also be a strong focus on the quality of teacher training. There are no shortcuts, but more teacher-led time in teaching is by far the most important tool combined with more ways into education. We also want more adults in school. The Parliament made a good decision in connection with the budget last autumn about teaching assistant services. It was unfortunately a bet that disappeared in a rather strange political game this spring. I believe and hope that the teaching assistant services and the money for them will come back. Madam President, I would like The coherent education system, from preschool up and up, includes upper secondary school. But it's not going to end with high school. Lifelong learning is an important objective to maintain. In a changing society and in a changing labour market, where people develop and change during life, we will lower the thresholds to enable continued studies throughout life. Here, too, the government is taking action. Study medicinal products should be able to be given higher up to the age limit. It is part of the January Agreement, and it will be implemented. However, a threshold is the competence. Students of vocational preparatory programmes in upper secondary school who do not qualify for higher education have a rather high threshold to cross. All programmes in high school should, Madam President, give higher education qualifications or, at least in reality, the possibility of higher education qualifications. It is not reasonable for a 15 - 16 - year - old to decide what the rest of his life should be like. Another part that was also decided with the autumn budget is the special student allowance intended for people who want to and need to change or further train in the middle of their working life. To meet the demand, which came from many professionals and from the rapidly changing business world, we developed the concept of development time. But that reform also disappeared when the Left Party acted together with the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates. I'm sorry about that. The development period was also part of counteracting the increased mental illness, a break to seek a new direction in working life. But mental illness must be met in all parts of life, not least during education. CSN was commissioned by the government at the turn of the year to focus in particular on the students' mental health. At the same time, the University Chancellor's Office, UKÄ, was also tasked with identifying the equivalence of student health at the country's higher education institutions. As far as pupil health for school and upper secondary school is concerned, more money has been spent – it was already done during the last parliamentary term – and the issue has been investigated. In addition, a study on pupil health has been set up by means of an additional directive just today. It applies to the availability of pupil health in all schools. This too is part of the January agreement. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude my speech with a few words on what I have devoted a great deal of my time as a municipal politician to before I had the opportunity to step into this assembly and into the parliamentary role, namely cultural policy. Culture, creativity, creative creation, aesthetic subjects – many studies show that we need to be exposed to culture. It may sound a bit pointed out to say, but we do need it. Not least children and young people need it. We need to get more culture into school, even higher up in grades and upper secondary school. Culture should be included in the learning elements. Creativity and culture go hand in hand. The aesthetic subjects should be compulsory, for their own sake, for the development of students, for learning, but also because aesthetic skills are necessary to cope with almost any modern profession today. It can be in the manufacturing industry and in the craft professions; what you do must look good. It can also be in the official professions. These include, for example, presentation techniques and interfaces in programming. We know that the interface is often more important than the functionality of apps, software and such. But, Madam President, we will have to work on that. For the time being, I am content to call for rejection of all motions for resolutions and for approval of the proposal contained in the report.
i-f1e166b123e01138-734	Madam President, I would like Because of the meeting rules in Parliament, I did not have time to take a reply to Liberals' Member Roger Haddad. However, I would like to take this opportunity to make a clarification here in the speaker's chair. Roger Haddad pointed out that I was talking about limitations on welfare gains and profits in school. Let me then make it clear that my position as a social democrat is that I think it is quite wrong that we in Sweden today have a completely unique system where the school has turned into a market. We are all alone in the world about the possibility of making free profit withdrawals from school. It is my firm and firm view as a social democrat that this needs to be opposed. That is what I think as a Social Democrat, and I stand for it. Then there's another thing about the parliamentary majority. We have a January agreement which reflects the majority of Parliament and which means that we at government level are not pushing the issue of banning profits in welfare. That's the way it is, of course. My political opponent is by no means the Liberals. My political opponent is the right-wing conservative bloc that has emerged, the most nationalist and conservative bloc we have seen in modern political history in Sweden. That is why I am pleased that we have in place a middle cooperation which, after all, can take responsibility for Sweden's direction of travel. With that clarification, I hope I have reassured the Liberals somewhat.
