i-426136f3ca7be703-17	Madam President, I would like Pål Jonson has asked me why I did not follow the proposal of the Defence Committee to bring together the civilian and military parts of the defence into a total defence ministry within the Government Office. Furthermore, Pål Jonson has asked me whether I believe there is a political agreement on the costs of civil defence, as stated in the Defence Committee's report Resistance and whether I will invite the opposition parties to discuss the design of civil defence before the total defence bill is submitted to Parliament this autumn. Pål Jonson has also asked me whether I intend to take further steps to ensure that civil defence structures and organisational issues are also included in the total defence bill. The work to rebuild the total defense is a joint work for the entire government, and the work is a high priority. The Minister for Defence is responsible for coordinating military and civil defence within the framework of the total defence. The Minister for the Interior is responsible for coordinating society's emergency preparedness and civil defence. Civil defence covers all civil society activities to be conducted in total defence under the highest level of preparedness. Civil defence issues thus concern all departments of the Government Office. The principle of responsibility, i.e. that those who are responsible for an activity under normal conditions also have responsibility during a crisis and in case of increased preparedness, is a cornerstone of the work on total defence. The government, the C enterpartiet and the L iberals agree to add an additional SEK 5 billion per year to the military defence from 2022 to 2025, in accordance with the proposal of the Defence Committee. Since before, the Government has calculated to contribute SEK 5 billion for 2021. Military defence capabilities depend on the capabilities of civil defence. It is positive that within the Defence Committee there is a broad political consensus about the direction of Resistance. The defence committee estimated that the proposals made in the report Resistance requires a net contribution to the civil defence of approximately SEK 3.8 billion per year at the end of the period 2021 – 2025, in addition to the SEK 430 million per year decided in the 2018 budget bill. However, there is no political agreement on this budget. The Government's goal is that the Riksdag's decision in autumn 2020 on a defence policy orientation proposal should be able to reach as broad a consensus as possible. The development of total defence is in an intensive phase. Several investigations concerning structures and forms of organisation, in particular with a focus on civil defence, have been set up on the basis of the Defence Committee's report Resistance, including the investigation on civil defence in terms of responsibility, management and coordination in civil defence, the investigation of a new authority for psychological defence, the investigation on the security of supply of the total defence and the investigation into health care preparedness. The Riksbank Committee has also raised issues relating to civil defence. The conclusions of these investigations will be important building blocks in developing Sweden's total defence. On 2 March, 20 authorities provided evidence for the continued direction of civil defence in the respective departments responsible. The background is a government mission in which the authorities were asked to analyse the civil defence needs and proposals presented by the Defence Committee on the basis of the Defence Committee's reports. The authorities have also analysed the needs and proposals presented by MSB and the Swedish Armed Forces in a government mission to promote and develop coherent planning for total defence. I look forward to informing the Committee on Defence on the content of the dossier. As we rebuild civil defence, it is urgent that the knowledge and qualified investigative evidence of the actors involved be taken into account. This also applies to the elements relating to structures and organisational issues. However, it is important that the defence policy proposal provides a main direction for the continued work on civil defence. Continued analysis, investigation and planning will continue even after the defence policy proposal is decided. The process of reclaiming the total defense is ongoing.
i-426136f3ca7be703-23	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Home Affairs for the answer to my interpellation. This interpellation was made a number of weeks ago, prior to the serious outbreak of the corona virus, which is now spreading in Sweden and in Europe. But this does not make the interpellation less urgent or less relevant. The basis is that the stronger the civil defence we have, the better the civil emergency preparedness we also have. If we manage to deal with the demands of the war, we are also better equipped to deal with the crisis. And you can still say that it is a crisis that we are now going through in Sweden with consequences that we have never experienced before. I believe that if we had a stronger civil defence, we would also have been better equipped to deal with this crisis. We have been able to take part of this in the mass media linked to the abilities that used to exist. In the past, for example, we had about fifty field hospitals and over 600 ventilators. If we had had a responsible health care authority, I think we would have been able to coordinate our health resources more effectively. Such an authority could have had a stronger mandate to link all the regions of Sweden in terms of health care. Madam President, I would like The Home Secretary says in his reply that the work on civil defence is a high priority of the government. At best, I can say that it may be noticeable in the scope of the government's investigation system. There are a number of investigations going on in this area. But the truth is that the development of civil defence has slipped behind military defence in the last two or three years. And the Director General of MSB strongly criticised the government at Folk och Försvar in Sälen this year. He expressed it in terms of the fact that there are stops in many processes and that issues have ended up in the long bench at the Government Office and stuck in investigations. It is clear that it is a serious matter for the head of authority who is primarily responsible for the design of civil defence to make this criticism. I would therefore be grateful for comments from the Minister for Home Affairs on how he views this criticism. Madam President, I would like As the Home Secretary says, there are five major investigations into the total defense. The problem is that three of these investigations are delayed and two others have concluded that new investigations must be in place. There are, above all, two investigations that I am particularly concerned about. One concerns Elisabeth Nilsson's investigation into the role of industry in total defence. It is basically the case that we will not make progress on this issue when it comes to civil defence unless we get much stronger coordination between the private and the public. Today, the bulk of all social activities are carried out in the areas of fuel, electricity, telecoms, banks and so on by private companies. We need to achieve much stronger coordination. Elisabeth Nilsson's investigation was clear about what cannot be done in this area. You can't appoint war-important companies and so on. But I think we would have served a more forward-looking basis. Madam President, I would like The second investigation that I also have some concerns about is Barbro Holmberg's structural investigation into civil defence. It will lay the foundations for absolutely fundamental issues, such as whether we should have civilian areas and civilian commanders, what type of crisis management system we should have and whether we should have sector-responsible authorities. These are fundamental building blocks for us to move forward in total defence. The problem with this investigation is that it will not come until March 2021. As I said, both of these investigations are crucial for us to have a sound basis for making a new total defence decision in the next autumn. I do not think it is the investigators' fault, but it is the government's responsibility to ensure that the investigations that are set up are actually put in place and that they receive human resources and reasonable working conditions.
i-426136f3ca7be703-34	Madam President, I would like I want to thank Pål Jonson for a very important interpellation. There are some interpellations that age with time and end up very right in the social debate while others end up a little more wrong and may not be as prioritised. This is indeed an area that is in the midst of the crisis situation we have today. I agree with Pål Jonson's general picture – if Sweden had had a stronger total defence, including the civil defence, we would have been stronger in dealing with the crisis situation we have today. This was also one of my themes when I gave my speech at the People's and Defence National Conference in Sälen, where I described how much of the civil defence was completely dismantled. This took place both in terms of preparedness and in terms of responsibility in certain parts, such as the supply of medicinal products, with authorities that previously had a clearer mandate but do not really have it anymore. It is clear that we would have stood stronger as a society if we had a stronger civil defence now. What is complicated – and Pål Jonson is extremely aware of this – is that, as we are about to build up civil defence, we must do so on the basis of the conditions that exist today. These conditions are not quite the same as when we once had civilian defence in place, with the emergency stocks that existed. There are some experiences from this that we can really benefit from. We can copy some of the procedures and structures that existed. But society has changed. Some of the vulnerability is visible not least in the delivery flows we have seen now. This applies not only to those goods that are of very critical importance to society, which in the past were stored in emergency storage, but now almost all industries have just in time delivery. This creates vulnerabilities in the system that didn't exist at the time – at least not in the same way. Digital development may not be as hot right now, when we are dealing with the Corona crisis, but the vulnerabilities in society are much greater today – with digital development – than they were at the time. Then it takes a collaboration between the public and the private, which you, Pål Jonson, were into. At that time, much of the activity that was critical to society in public service and public ownership was. Now that we are going to rebuild this, on the basis of a structure in which not all actors are public or government, civil defence must be organised in a different way. I take this very seriously. I also noted Dan Eliasson's speech in Sälen. He criticized a little bit of everything. His main criticism was that he thought that we sometimes manage the business in detail a little too much and don't listen to those who are experts in the field. If we have now set up investigations with people who really go into depth on how we should organise civil defence, at least my conclusion is that it is important that we really get this knowledge in when we are going to make a well-founded decision that will last for a long time to come. It is true that civil defence is lagging behind military defence. Military defense started its growth journey earlier. The military defence did not go as deep down but still had structures that allow it to be built up now faster than civil defence. The second thing that happened with civil defence, if we are to be honest, was that the transitional government ended up in a situation where several investigations could not be set up. We lost months of investigation time. These investigations should actually have started, but a transitional government does not set up new investigations. As a result, we are now in short supply of time. Nevertheless, I am cautiously optimistic. I believe that in good cooperation we can set out important principles for the development of civil defence. This also applies to matters of responsibility and management, which I believe are absolutely fundamental in order to move forward. I am absolutely sure that the total defence decision must have a strong civil dimension.
i-426136f3ca7be703-44	Madam President, I would like Let me comment on a couple of things that the Home Secretary said. It is quite right, as the Minister for the Interior said, that society has changed and that the state council over the public and private is less than it used to be. However, we are not alone in having this problem. We can look at the other Nordic countries. I feel that Finland has come much further in its work on coordination between the private and the public. The defense committee was in Northern Norway last week. They have also come further in total defence planning between the private and the public. It's probably not just that we have had a transitional government and that this has caused it – it was after all that you received the report from the Defence Committee in December 2017 – but it's also about prioritising civil defence. I know that the Minister for Home Affairs has had a lot of other things to do linked to gang crime, shootings and other things, but you have to lie on the investigations all the time and perhaps also get debriefings so that you can move forward. Madam President, I would like After all, in 2015 we decided to give planning instructions, or to start work on civil defence. So that's five years ago. I can see that much work remains to be done. Some are about our administrative readiness, that is, what constitutional support we should have or what laws and regulations we should lean on. How does the Public Procurement Act affect civil defence? How does it affect enhanced preparedness? Another part is about our organisational preparedness, i.e. management, structure and coordination. There's a lot of work left to do. If we do not get these structures in place as a matter of urgency, we will not be able to respond to the demand contained in the Defence Committee's report, namely that it is the armed attack that should be dimensional for the total defence. It is urgent to put these structures in place. This brings me to my second question in the interpellation, namely the need for a total defence department, or a department responsible for both civil and military defence. I note that the Defence Committee in its December 2017 report Resistance points to the fears and shortcomings that exist if civil and military defence are divided. The defence committee believes that the division gives rise to border issues and unclear responsibilities, which hampers and delays the work on civil defence. The conclusion, then, from December 2017, is that it makes it difficult and delays the work not to have it all in one department. I believe that this conclusion still holds true, and I regret to say that the concerns of the Committee on Defence have come true with the division of military and civil into two different departments. Now the Minister for Home Affairs, wisely, says that it is the entire Government Office that is responsible for total defence. That, of course, is the case. It is also the case that civil and military capabilities are interdependent. That is precisely why I believe that the coordination of civil and military defence would serve to be dealt with within the framework of one ministry and not two. I would be grateful for a comment on why a united defence committee has not been followed, which supported a total defence ministry. Three Social Democratic members of the Defence Committee also advocated this model. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to talk about the budget for civil defence. The Minister for the Interior said here that on 30 August the government and its co-operation parties decided on an economic agreement on military defence, in the same direction as the Defence Committee's proposal. I would just like to add that this agreement was not price-proof, which means that there is a EUR 5 billion missing for military defence by 2025 and 30 billion by 2030. I wonder whether a new economic agreement on civil defence will now be added and when it will be presented to Parliament.
i-426136f3ca7be703-60	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I agree with Pål Jonson in his analysis of our neighbouring countries in the Nordic countries, perhaps especially when it comes to looking at Finland extra much. Finland once built its civil defence in principle by looking at Sweden. Then we dismantled our civil defence while Finland kept its own and had to adapt its civil defence to societal developments, not least when it comes to having several actors. We have a very good cooperation in the Nordic community. We also have very good cooperation between our departments, both in terms of emergency preparedness and in terms of civil defence. We have a lot to gain both from working with Finland and from learning how Finland has developed and changed its systems over time to meet the new age. This is also part of why several of these investigations have been tasked with looking at how our neighbouring countries have organised their activities in order to take advantage of it and move forward. We fully agree with that description. You can choose to organise activities in different ways. Within the framework of the department in which I am present, we have the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, the entire police operation and emergency preparedness. I fully share the view that a stronger civil defence provides a stronger emergency preparedness. The reverse is also true, that stronger emergency preparedness provides a stronger civil defence. They are communication vessels in both directions, and it is I in the government who are responsible for the authorities that handle crises and disasters in peacetime. When it comes to building civil defence, I just want to show some humility in the question of how easy it is to coordinate, demand responsibility and make clear boundaries. I've been following from the side the work on the Defense Committee linked to the military defense. It is an authority, and it is an economic framework. It hasn't been easy to keep track of all the numbers and how the process should be. I have repeatedly asked questions to try to get a common picture of what the situation is. This has now come a very long way. When we talk about civil defence, we talk about the ability of society as a whole to manage and function in the event of increased preparedness and war. A department cannot know all these parts, but the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Justice have deep knowledge in their respective areas. But it should be coordinated with military defence, so that we have such a strong build-up of civil defence that goes within the framework of the total defence decision. I think we have a common ambition in this. Well aware that not all investigations are complete, not all decisions will be made now. Then I think it is very important that, as far as possible, we have a joint analysis of the priorities we are going to make when we are building civil defence in order to maximise the impact of total defence. I look forward to being able to come back to the Committee on Defence and to report on the documents received by the 20 security authorities and their analysis of what they think should be given priority and to have a political discussion on the priorities on which the total defence decision must rest.
i-426136f3ca7be703-69	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of the Interior, for this debate. It's urgent. But let me make a few points. I think perhaps the government had thought right when it thought that it would create a blue light department, if it had not been the case that at the same time we started building civil defence. It is so important that the civilian and the military are connected and that they are organised within a department, otherwise they will be out of step. Then I would like to emphasise this once again with the budget, because I think it is very urgent. I wonder whether the Minister can only clarify that the economic agreement on military defence is separate with his own money, compared with the one to be presented on civil defence, so that the military elements are not used to finance civil defence. There is already under-financing of military defence, I would add. A few words also about the process ahead. Today we will be invited to the Ministry of Defence to possibly start political negotiations on military defence. However, there is no structure or organisation for the preparation of civil defence, and I am concerned about that. We want to take a decision in broad political agreement. Then an orderly process is required for us to have a common understanding of civil defence. I would like a comment from the Minister linked to the civil defence process and how to find a broad political consensus. The last question, Madam President, concerns the national cyber-operation centre. It's very important for the total defense. We're going to need to build up a digital shell cover for the entire total defense. I wonder whether the Minister can provide information on the budget that will provide funds for the national cyber-operation centre and whether it will return to Parliament to present the centre, whose volume is estimated to be 250 people, and it is a major activity.
i-426136f3ca7be703-75	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Pål Jonson once again for this interpellation debate. It's important. We are in the midst of a national crisis linked to the Corona virus. Then it is important that we realise that a stronger civil defence had made us stronger today, but above all that we must learn from this crisis in order to see that a stronger civil defence is also necessary for the future. I therefore look forward to further debates but, above all, to working together on these issues. I'll answer some questions. The agreement on military defence between the cooperation parties, the Liberals and the Center Party, and the government concerns military defence – nothing else. All departments will be affected in one way or another by the reconstruction of civil defence. I believe that some departments and some committees in Parliament will be particularly involved. There are a number of sectors that are a priority for us, such as the health sector, the transport sector and the energy sector, and which will thus have an extra role in the work on the total defence bill and the basis for it in the future. I look forward to coming back to the entire Committee on Defence and presenting all the documents received to give an overview of the priorities of the various departments and the monitoring authorities. Then I am happy to receive the parliamentary parties' own pictures of their priorities and focus areas. There is resilience, but it is important at this point to get a fresh picture of what you think is most important to get on with. One important issue is cybersecurity. The national cybersecurity centre is planned to be set up during the year, and the agency has said that they can start the centre during the year without additional funds. However, the extension of the centre will require additional funding.
i-426136f3ca7be703-82	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me when I intend to come back with proposals to Parliament in response to the announcement by Parliament to the government to abolish the requirement for permission to organise a public dance event. Furthermore, he has asked me whether it is my ambition and the Government's ambition to abolish the permit requirement for public dance events and how the government has reasoned and acted in the preparation of the Council of Law referral. In September 2017, an investigator was assigned to assist the Ministry of Justice in investigating the issue of the requirement for permission to organise a public dance event. The assignment was presented in June 2018(Ds 2018:20). The memorandum proposes that the absolute requirement for permission should be abolished, but that it should remain in those cases where the dance event presents a risk in terms of order and safety. The investigator's proposal was reviewed from 5 July 2018 to 15 October 2018. It is now up to the government to make proposals for appropriate constitutional measures on the basis of the investigator's proposal and the comments received during the consultation. As I have said before in answers to parliamentary questions from Mattias Bäckström Johansson (SD) and Lars Püs (M), the matter has unfortunately not been prioritised because the Ministry of Justice has had a number of important legislative matters to deal with. Legislative matters linked to the enforcement of penalties and new police tools against organised crime and gang violence have been prioritised before the dance permit. However, work is under way in the Government Office to produce a legislative referral.
i-Jhh2nAGfvx5WbtX2izWbne	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer from Mikael Damberg! Almost four years ago, a unanimous parliament addressed an announcement to the government to abolish the permit requirement for the organisation of public dance events. Since then, the issue has been investigated, and the memorandum Permits to public dance event were handed over to the government in June 2018. In other words, there has been a broad political consensus for years and nothing has happened. The Act of Order still requires permission to dance, and restaurateurs without permission risk losing permission to serve and being sentenced to fines or imprisonment if they do not immediately interrupt any risky spontaneous dance in their premises. Madam President, I would like One can easily be led to believe that when political unity prevails and when the Riksdag has confirmed the same, then the government will strike when the iron is warm and will carry out the announcement that the Riksdag has given them. Unfortunately, in this case, the government has chosen to drag the execution on a long leash. In his reply, the Minister for the Interior points out that this is derived from the current workload of the Ministry of Justice. Madam President, I would like I fully understand that. Both the Minister for Home Affairs and his fellow party members and representatives of other parties have, together, caused our country such great problems that, for natural reasons, it takes both time and effort to try to remedy them. In this work, I can only wish the Minister and the Government good luck. The Swedish Democrats are more than happy to help, both when it comes to acting as a source of inspiration and when it comes to shouldering responsibility. Having said that, however, I would argue that lack of time cannot be seen as a full answer to my questions. Because they were wider than that. Madam President, I would like The questions I asked were: When does the Government intend to return with the proposal to Parliament? Is it the ambition of the ministers and the government to abolish the permit requirement? How has the government reasoned and acted in the preparation of the legislative referral? On these questions, the Minister for the Interior answered briefly that work on producing a Council of Law referral is under way in the Government Office. That was the essence of it all. When the government will in fact find time to meet Parliament's wishes, the Government has not yet answered. The conspirator could be led to believe that the government is actively procrastinating and delaying the issue. This in itself would not have been very surprising since the Social Democrats were alone in not pushing the issue when it was being dealt with by the Riksdag. Nor has the Minister of the Interior responded to how the Government has reasoned and acted in the preparation of the said Council of Law referral. The reason I wonder is that there are major differences between the announcement addressed by the Riksdag to the Government that the requirement for permission to organise public dance events should be removed and the investigation's proposal to depart from an absolute permit requirement but still leave it. Madam President, I would like I find no reason in this speech to put any new questions to the Minister for Home Affairs. I am still waiting for answers to those I have already given.
i-426136f3ca7be703-94	Madam President, I would like I have responded in the interpellation response to how the government has handled the announcement. We've set up an investigation and had suggestions out for a referral. I also said it was not a priority preparation, because we had other issues that were more important, not least linked to gang crime. But I said at the same time that the preparation work continues. Now I can go as far as saying that this is not a priority right now. There is no such proposal in the near future. We are currently having a Corona crisis and are trying to get people to take their own responsibility for reducing social interaction. Then the government cannot present a proposal to abolish the dance permits. It's gonna be all wrong. I won't do it. I don't think Parliament wants me to do that. I can say, however, that once we get through this crisis, the preparation of the dossier will continue, and then we can re-examine it. I will not open up to a discussion about abolishing the requirement for a dance permit in the event of a national crisis caused by the Corona.
i-426136f3ca7be703-97	Madam President, I would like I would like to inform the Minister of the Interior that the interpellation was submitted before we ended up in the situation we are now in. I would argue that there is a value in the fact that Parliament can continue its work, even though we find ourselves in such a difficult situation. We have already taken action. But my strict assessment is that we must continue to act in order to create a better society overall, even if we are in this situation. One cannot blame only Corona, which has hit Sweden hard in recent weeks, when we have had a united parliament on this issue for almost four years. That's remarkable. Of course the Home Secretary has been busy. However, that cannot be a reason for completely rejecting responsibilities on an issue where there has been political agreement for four years. Instead, let us focus on the content and take a closer look at the proposal presented by the investigation. The investigation has a strong focus on problematising what could happen if the permit requirement is completely abolished and fears what is described as risky dance events. It's easy to allow yourself to reason on how risky a dance event can really be, but of course the investigation has a point. What you mainly focus on to justify the risk with dance events is specifically nightclub environments. For example, it is well known that in connection with such activities there are often problems in the form of alcohol and drugs, confrontations between people and violent crimes, possession of weapons, and more. When many people gather indoors, the risk increases. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I do not wish to question this description in any way. On the contrary, I agree with it and understand it. On the other hand, I question whether permission requirements for dance events are the solution. My point is that if a nightclub is filled with gang crime, gun crimes, drug sales, violent crime, and so on, the least problem in this context should be whether they also dance or not. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Home Affairs whether he sees the authorisation requirement for public dance events as an effective means of combating gang crime, gun crimes, drug sales and violent crimes. The investigation suggests, as I said, that we should abandon the absolute permit requirement. It is considered that the trader should decide for himself whether authorisation is needed on the basis of a variety of but incalculable factors. Among other things, the investigation writes:... Less dance events that take place within the framework of customary restaurant or pub activities should fall outside the permit requirement... The element of dance must also not mean that the business changes the main focus and turns into something that is equivalent to a nightclub or therefore comparable activity. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I may be at an age in which the common man spends relatively much time in the affected environments, but I would still find it difficult to draw a line when the main focus turns from pub activities to something that can be equated with a nightclub. My second question to the Minister for the Interior in this speech is, therefore, whether he could have made such a distinction when one is aware that a repeated wrong line is in danger of generating both fines and imprisonment.
i-426136f3ca7be703-106	Madam President, I would like I have stated so far in the debate that, at this stage, I cannot give priority to the process of abolishing the requirement for a dance permit. Nor will I precede what product the government will present when, in accordance with Parliament's announcement, we present a proposal. I have full respect for the fact that Parliament can and should be able to discuss all issues at all times. However, as a Member of Parliament, one can also consider when it is appropriate to discuss certain issues. We are currently trying to discourage people from having too much social contact. Then, in this national crisis situation, to chase the government in this way so that we can present exactly what we think, perhaps even present a proposal, to abolish the requirements for dance permits, I think is irresponsible. We could have taken this interpellation debate when the crisis is over. I don't think this is the right time. I have explained that I will not give priority to the preparation of this proposal. I'd be happy to do it once we get through this crisis. We have said that we will respond to the announcement by Parliament. But there is a time and a place for when it is appropriate. I don't think that time and place are here and now.
i-426136f3ca7be703-109	Madam President, I would like I would like to reiterate to the Minister for the Interior that this interpellation was addressed to the Minister himself before Sweden ended up in the situation that we are in right now. One can of course have a discussion if the Minister is to decide which questions Members should be allowed to raise to the Minister at the moment. I think it is rather inappropriate to discuss, as a minister, what issues Members of Parliament, who are elected and who are to review the government and its work, should address. Not least, we will examine how the government is getting through, what legislative proposals it is presenting, how they are designed and what consequences they have. Then it is remarkable to say, as a minister, that we are currently in a situation where I believe the Member of Parliament should remain silent. You should not review the government, not ensure that the government continues with the work it has promised to do and do not take into account the announcement addressed to the government by the Riksdag four years ago. That is remarkable, Madam President. If the interpellation had come as an initiative from me here and now, of course, I would have understood if the Minister for the Interior had thought it strange that I chose to spend my working time on this. But the interpellation was written before we were put into this situation. I felt it was part of the duty attached to my office and also to carry out and have a discussion with the Minister for the Interior. But given the missing answer, it is obviously my firm belief to come back when the crisis has settled and raise the issue again. Hopefully the Minister for the Interior will then have a better answer to the questions raised in this interpellation. At present, the Minister seems to feel that it is only on his table to reprimand Members about what they should do and to what extent they should pursue the government. I find it absolutely remarkable to try to restrict Members of Parliament in this way. That's not why you're a minister in a government.
i-426136f3ca7be703-113	Madam President, I would like I have answered both the interpellation and I am taking part in today's debate, but reality must also play a role in the work we are doing in Parliament and in the government. Right now we have a national crisis, and we have received recommendations that people should not socialise and have too much social contact, all to reduce the spread of infection. This could have serious consequences for health care and life and health. At this point, I myself had not – and that is my personal opinion – put forward an interpellation in which I said that we now need to come up with a proposal to abolish the requirement for a dance permit. All parties can do whatever they want. I have been clear in this parliamentary debate that this is not a work that I will prioritise during the crisis. The honourable Member may have exactly what he wants on this issue.
i-426136f3ca7be703-116	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the purpose of the strengthened law on client liability is achieved. I have previously answered both an interpellation and a written question by Thomas Morell on customer responsibility. For the government, it is important that the companies ordering transport take their responsibility, and therefore the person ordering you an unauthorised goods or passenger transport should be able to be convicted of crime. Therefore, the Government decided to strengthen the ordering responsibility for international transport and cabotage transport in spring 2018. The amended rules have been in force for a little over a year and a half and need to be evaluated before it is possible to draw any conclusions on their impact. Furthermore, on 22 August 2019, the Government appointed an investigation into more effective checks on road traffic. The mandate includes, among other things, reviewing the way in which the control activities of road commercial transport are carried out and making proposals for improvement measures. Another part of the mission is for the investigator to analyse and propose further breaches of rules in the field of professional traffic that should be subject to a change of sanction from criminal sanctions to fines. The mandate includes that the investigator shall analyse whether, for example, breaches of the rules on ordering liability should be subject to a change of sanction. Ordering and knowing the roads is a priority for the government, and where ordering responsibility plays an important role. I will continue to monitor this issue in order to ensure that customer responsibility is effective.
i-6BBfo9pPjqrqxRAQqadBza	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth, for your answer. We have discussed the issue several times. There has also been much debate in the media in connection with meetings with haulage companies and representatives of the industry. For several years we have been working on the issue of customer responsibility. We have criticised the government for not tightening up the legislation, and when the tightening up came in July 2018, we thought it was inadequate. It's been a while. I'm a little curious about how things have turned out. Has anyone been reported? After all, it puts away the legs of the serious haulage industry if you are driving too long in this country, i.e. have illegal cabotage, or even driving without permission. Society must clearly mark and say that it is wrong, and then punishment should also be sent out. I've got feelings in the traffic police and I've been questioning myself about the situation. I can see that there has been nothing. But to be on the safe side, I asked the parliamentary investigation service to look at this. They noted that there were no reports of customer responsibility. Yes, it has been reported, but it has not led to criminal proceedings. Several cases have been closed. In 2019 the police reported 231 cabotage cases. Two figures are: 238 and 231. We can leave it unsaid what task is right. The State has received 8 840 000 SEK in fines for this. From this one should have been able to ascertain a conviction on the issue of customer responsibility. Otherwise, it would be strange because there are over 230 cases where the regulations have been breached. What is important in this is that it must have consequences for the person ordering a transport and is well aware that it does not comply with the regulations. It doesn't help to report the driver out on the road. The driver is usually someone who is in a strong position of dependence and is exploited very much. If you remove such a driver, there will soon be someone new behind the wheel. That's how it goes all the time. If you are going to remove the nutrient flow in this, you have to find the person who orders and directs the business. In this respect, it has failed. Sure, there's an investigation going on. I think it's a good thing that this investigation is being conducted so that you can see how to organise control activities in the future. At the same time, however, day-to-day activities must function in the future. I am well aware that we are in a very difficult situation right now, but that does not mean that law enforcement must stop. It must be equally active whether we have a national crisis or not. Then also those who commit crimes must be prosecuted. I am a little curious to hear the Council of State's reasoning on this. It must also be troubling for the government that not a single case of conviction has fallen out in terms of customer responsibility.
i-426136f3ca7be703-130	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell! I know from the past that we probably have the same starting point and commitment to this. I think the most disturbing thing is for those who were opposed to tightening up the customer responsibility when we delivered it. They said: Is it reasonable to make demands that transport buyers have to keep track of the supply chain about what responsibility they have for the transport they buy? For them, it is troubling, because we must have clear customer responsibility. We must ensure that those who order transport professionally bear a responsibility for legality. A few weeks ago, on 26 February, the Swedish Prosecution Authority filed a lawsuit with the Helsingborg District Court requesting a corporate fine against a client who should have violated the order liability rule. So the rule we have is used. It is being tried, and it is the courts who independently examine the rule. Now the legislation has been in force for just over a year and a half. I have made it clear that we are going to review. As I have said, we have commissioned the investigation to look specifically at the rules on client liability and whether it should be subject to an exchange of sanctions. That means I see that there is a space. Moreover, there seems to be political support if we were to arrive at the need to tighten up client responsibility. There should be order in the transport industry. We cannot have a system whereby transport buyers regularly order shipments that do not comply with laws and regulations. If you do, there should be tangible consequences. This is the starting point for legislation. Now, for a year and a half, the courts have tried this. We can see that there are pending lawsuits. Let us evaluate this and also wait for the investigation into control activities to see how we can switch up and get even stronger tools. I believe it is in our common interest.
i-426136f3ca7be703-135	Madam President, I would like I write every day of the week under that there should be order and order of our paths. Getting things together is something we have worked hard for. It is about protecting serious entrepreneurship and those who carry out transport activities and who comply with laws and regulations. They are being outcrowded by those who underwhelm by not paying taxes and charges, not paying wages to the drivers behind the wheel and not having permission to carry out the activities they have in the country. Cabotage is a temporary domestic transport in the host country – that's how it should be. Then you can't build what we see now. They have mobile workshops, mobile tyre workshops and mobile filling stations. Fuel is smuggled in to support this business, which rolls around the country. The authorities have not clearly indicated against this and have ensured that those who order and support this type of activity receive a penalty. That's why it's still alive. I say it again: I think it's good that this investigation is going on, but the day-to-day business has to work. We also need to get to the point where we have convictions. In my hand I hold a smoking fresh copy of the newspaper Trailer. It came last week. On the editorial side, the editor-in-chief writes exactly what I put forward here: There is not a single case that has been brought to judgment. When the possibility has existed for such a long time and when there is such a large base, over 230 cases, it is remarkable not to get a single conviction. As a result, these companies live on and beat away the bones of serious haulage companies. Sure-- we're in a difficult position right now. But we still have to keep things in order. Otherwise, it's going to get worse in the future. We have seen a rising trend in illegal activity, and it is not waning. I sincerely hope that the government will invest more resources. On the day we receive a proposal for stricter rules on client responsibility, I am the first to be involved and to have an influence so that we can have a rewrite of it.
i-426136f3ca7be703-141	Madam President, I would like In that case, I would like to thank you for the support if we put forward a proposal for stricter client responsibility. However, let us note that when we have had moderate-led governments, as the Swedish Democrats have so far said they prefer, there have been no proposals for stricter client responsibility, squeezing, fines or other efforts to strengthen professional traffic, to create order and order and increase control activities. With a continued Social Democratic-led government, during this period we will of course continue to work on getting the Swedish roads in order, providing more resources to the police, increasing control possibilities and not least ensuring that we get a better basis to see if we can change sanctions even when it comes to ordering responsibility.
i-426136f3ca7be703-143	Madam President, I would like Now this was before my time in Parliament, but if I am not mistaken completely, it was a united transport committee that had tabled a proposal for clapping. I may be wrong there, but I want to remember that it was like that. In that case, it was all the parties in the committee who tabled that proposal – among other things. I think it is important that we focus on this issue now, because this puts the bones of serious entrepreneurs away. We will also have a food chain for other criminal activities if we do not put an end to those who are driving illegally in our country. It's an extensive operation. There are police reports on this. I myself have been active towards the police on these issues. We also see links with other criminal activities. As long as you do not go in from state power and try to do something about it, it will continue. It is most distressing that we have not made any progress in all these years. When I joined Sweden's Åkeri company in 2010, this was one of the first questions I started working on. It's been ten years. We still can't get to the clients who support this type of business. There must be a change in this.
i-426136f3ca7be703-146	Madam President, I would like It may be a united transport committee, but for eight years with a moderate government there was not a single proposal. It was only after the change of government that we were able to push through proposals on clarifying, sanctioning, ordering responsibility, increased controls and special earmarked resources for cabotage controls. It matters who rules. It also matters which parties provide support when forming a government. The starting point is that, with a Social Democratic-led government, efforts are being made to get the roads in order.
i-426136f3ca7be703-147	Madam President, I would like Per Åsling has asked me how I will ensure that the Arvidsjaur cross-rail – Jörn is available for freight traffic by system trains to and from the Inland Line and not just as a diversion in exceptional events such as stops in traffic or that the Armed Forces need it. The Government has previously stated that the Swedish Transport Administration should continue to investigate the future functioning of Inlandsbanan in the deficiency analysis identified by the Government. I assume that Trafikverket takes into account all relevant issues in this investigation work. When it comes to application and decisions under the Railway Regulation, it is the responsibility of the Finnish Transport Administration. In the case of a lease, the user rights holder assumes responsibility for maintaining the allocated part and for the investments needed for the use and responsibility as an infrastructure manager.
i-426136f3ca7be703-149	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth for his reply. Let me start by drawing a little history of the Inland Line. It was built up for a long time starting in the late 1800s. It was completed in the 1930s. The Inland Line was later shut down in the bottling that it had been run in the 1990s by the then government decision to phase out the Inland Line. A work was then started among the inland municipalities; they merged and formed an economic association that now owns the operating company, Inlandsbanan AB, which operates the track. I think it has been a good job. Inland municipalities have demonstrated entrepreneurship and mother-in-law. It has also been shown that there is a need for Inlandsbanan to remain and develop. Inlandsbanan AB has since strengthened its operations. The inland track has been maintained in many ways and is in much better condition now than when you took over. But much remains to be done. There is a shortage of capacity in the country. Only in December, the Director General of the Finnish Transport Administration said that there is a lack of capacity on our railways. Then I think it is important to take advantage of the potential in Inlandsbanan. It could be an efficient and well-functioning infrastructure link from north to south. Its capacity could increase the core runways by 25 %. It also provides a good redundancy for the North Main Line and Ostkustbanan. But it is important that it also has the conditions that are urgent. The reason we are standing here today is a decision by the Swedish Transport Administration's board. Skanska has submitted an application to use the bandel we are talking about. It is an exclusive right to use the rail section for a period of 30 years. It is clear that it is more than strange that the Board of the Finnish Transport Administration gives Skanska an exclusivity on this track section. That's not good. Inlandsbanan has appealed to the Government against the decision regarding the transfer of the Swedish Transport Administration. The inland railway needs the main roads for its further development and rehabilitation. You need the opportunity to use the crosspaths available, and the most important is Arvidsjaur – Jörn. In the light of the decision of the Swedish Transport Agency's Board of Directors, it must surely be considered strange that another party is given exclusivity. Wouldn't the minister agree with me on that?
i-426136f3ca7be703-155	Madam President, I would like We make historical investments on the railways in Sweden. That's 700 billion in total in infrastructure. A very large part is about renovating, repairing and building new ones in the Swedish railway system. It is after years of underinvestment where, under previous bourgeois governments, we chose not to invest in expanding the railways. Although traffic increased and more companies wanted to send goods by train, the necessary renovations were not made. That is why it is important that we now make the greatest railway effort in modern times. In northern Sweden, the regions there have been clear with their priorities. It was indicative when the government chose to prioritise an initiative, which was important, at Norrbotniabanan. It could almost have been built now, by the way, if the bourgeois government did not lift the Norrbotnia Line as a national initiative in 2006. In the national plane that we developed was Norrbotniabanan. It is about Ostkustbanan, Malmbanan and not least Mittbanan, with the hope of electrification on the Norwegian side of Meråkersbanan. We're working with the Norwegians on that. Of course, it is important railway efforts that are being made. In this context, the Inland Line was not a priority of previous governments. From our government we chose to lift the Inland Line as an important part of what is called lack analysis. Trafikverket is commissioned to look at the operation of Inlandsbanan. It can be very important for both tourism and from the point of view of redundancy. There is a strong commitment that I really appreciate at the municipalities along the Inland Line. Therefore, there is an assignment at Trafikverket to investigate the future function of Inlandsbanan. Then it is up to us to decide on the route we are now talking about. We should remember that it is a stretch that has not been used since 1990. So it's been out of traffic for 30 years. That decision is something that the Finnish Transport Administration has a responsibility to take. This does not deprive Trafikverket of the overall task of investigating the future functioning of Inlandsbanan. I will of course follow that discussion very closely to look at how we can continue to strengthen the entire Swedish rail system. We need both increased redundancy and increased rail traffic, not least in order to meet the climate targets.
i-426136f3ca7be703-165	Madam President, I would like Let me note that we must now look ahead, Tomas Eneroth. The decision on the original closure of the Nlandsbanan railway, which was to be demolished due to strong work from the inland municipalities of Norrland, was taken by a Social Democratic government. I am also aware that governments have subsequently made bets of different colours. More could have been desired. But now we are where we are, and then we have to look forward. My point, and the question that I closed my last speech by raising for the Minister for Infrastructure, are as follows. It must be reasonable, however, if the Swedish Transport Administration has been commissioned by the Government to investigate Inlandsbanan that Trafikverket does so unconditionally and that it does not go in and make decisions during the work, which means that an important cross-road in the form of Arvidsjaur – Jörn is assigned to another operator, construction company or whatever we want to call Skanska. Skanska believes that for 30 years they should have exclusivity in a situation where Inlandsbanan has reported an interest in getting use of the track and taking responsibility for it as well as for the main track. It is important that the government is clear here. The appeal puts the matter at the table of the government. It is good that this is the case. The Inland Line is the entire Swedish inland course. It is a course that goes strategically from Gällivare and now down to Mora in an area where there is also a very large part of our forest supply. There is therefore reason to put the issue in perspective of energy transition, sustainability and green energy. It is therefore also important to ensure that the future of the Inland Line is guaranteed and that its development is given the best possible conditions. I have noted that Inlandsbanan AB has identified that the Swedish Transport Administration's investigation into the future functioning of Inlandsbanan, which was the basis for the Board's decision to phase out the part going from Arvidsjaur to Jörn, has been drawn up in a way that is not objective, transparent or impartial. Therefore, it seems to me, in principle, inappropriate for the Authority, which has rail charges as its source of revenue, to investigate projects which may involve rail charges being paid instead to another infrastructure manager. Since the question is now on the government's table, it would be interesting to hear: How does the government feel about another impartial investigator taking over the investigation mission?
i-426136f3ca7be703-173	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Per Åsling, for the commitment! I share the commitment to both the future of the railways and the importance of taking advantage of the strong commitment to Inlandsbanan. I also believe that Mr Åsling is well aware that as a minister I cannot, should not and must not comment on how the authority has dealt with an individual matter, especially if it turns out that there is an appeal and that it is put on the table of the government. It wouldn't be appropriate. For this reason, I have pointed out in the interpellation response that the Swedish Transport Administration is tasked with investigating the future functioning of Inlandsbanan in the deficiency analysis identified by the Government. I also stress that the Inlandsbanan, like many other parts of the railway in northern Sweden, is important. In a situation where, not least within the framework of the January agreement, we have pointed out the importance of making continued investments in rail, both new main rail lines and railways in northern Sweden, it is important that we continue to work to see how parts of the Swedish railway network can be developed. As I said, I cannot comment on parts of how the Swedish Transport Administration as an internal authority has prepared a case. That would not be appropriate in this context.
i-426136f3ca7be703-178	Madam President, I would like I am well aware that the Minister for Infrastructure cannot comment on what the Authority, in this case the Finnish Transport Administration, has thought and done. My question was more general. Is it reasonable for an authority which has an activity which is partly financed by rail charges to investigate when the other operator, in this case Inlandsbanan, also has to finance its activities to a large extent through rail charges? It is important and urgent that we can have this kind of discussion and talk about this railway future, which is so strategic and important for the whole country. For me, every warning bell rings when a player like Skanska goes in and applies to get exclusivity granted. I think it is important that we take the Inland Line and Ibap's work to develop the entire track and to develop cross tracks in the future. It is about being an important resource for transport in Norrland and transportation from northern Sweden to southern Sweden. It is about redundancy in relation to the North Main Line, the Upper Main Line and the Ostkustbanan, which all have heavy pressure and where it sometimes stops. There, the Inland Line has an important function. I also think it is important for us to take other cross-tracks which are too far away and which could play an important role in a future railway system in the country.
i-426136f3ca7be703-183	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for your commitment. As I started with, it is important to continue strong development of Swedish rail transport. In the regional priorities that have existed for national planes, Norrbotniabanan, Ostkustbanan, Malmbanan, Mittbanan and other routes have been identified. It has also been carried out by the government by investing heavily. If we will continue to rule or cooperate in the constellation we have today, I am convinced that there will be continued efforts to strengthen Swedish railways. It's important. However, I also think that respect should be paid to the fact that there is now a commercial operator who is prepared to invest in a distance that has been closed for 30 years. I can respect, in the choices that exist, that it was also a factor to be reckoned with. But again: I note how the Swedish Transport Administration acts. I have made it clear that we have a mission at Trafikverket to investigate the entire operation of Inlandsbanan. That should be my starting point today.
i-426136f3ca7be703-186	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me what measures I intend to take to introduce a modernised framework for cycling towards a one-way street. The government has implemented several measures to promote increased and safe cycling. A national cycling strategy has been developed, as the first of its kind, which has led to a number of measures to promote cycling. A national cycling centre, a centre of knowledge for research and development on cycling, has been launched. The government has also made major investments in infrastructure in the national plan possible. It is important to continuously monitor the functioning of the existing regulations in different municipalities and to consider changes if necessary. The government wants to see an increased and safe cycling in Sweden. I follow that question closely.
i-426136f3ca7be703-189	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Infrastructure for the answer to my interpellation, but I have to say that it was a very scarce answer. It does not feel like the Minister for Infrastructure thinks it is particularly important to make it easier to cycle more in Sweden. Actually, I thought we agreed on that. It is certainly good that the government has a bicycle strategy, that a cycling centre and knowledge centre have been developed and that the Minister speaks hotly for research and development to promote increased cycling. But much more needs to be done. It would have been good if we had had clear objectives that were quantifiable so that we could follow up the cycle strategy, so that we could really see that it will be as we want, namely that more people use the cycle to get to school and to work. Cycling is very good for many reasons. It's climate smart. There'll be no emissions. It's good for public health. There will be no local discharges in our cities and so on. If we're going to get more people to ride a bike, we don't just need a good cycling strategy. We also need to invest more money in expanding the bicycle infrastructure. I find it unsatisfactory that we are spending only 1% of national investment for new infrastructure on developing cycle paths and routes. But there are also other things that can be done that actually don't cost much but that have proven to be very effective in making it easier for people to cycle safely and quickly. Since 2016, some streets have been signposted here in Stockholm, about 450 streets, allowing cycling towards one-way routes. Where it fits, it has been done twice for cyclists. It has been clearly signposted so that motorists, cyclists and pedestrians are aware of this. The reform has also been evaluated, and it is noted that this has facilitated cycling. This has also made it safer for all road users. As you can ride on streets where you couldn't ride before, cyclists avoid more busy streets. People also adapt to the new signage. Motorists drive more carefully etcetera. It has really only been plus, I would say, with Stockholm City's initiative to allow cyclists to cycle towards one-way on certain streets where it suits. Unfortunately, the Swedish Transport Agency failed the Stockholm City's reform in February this year. Now all signs must be taken down, and you will no longer have bidirectional streets for cyclists. That's very unfortunate, I would say. The Minister for Infrastructure could intervene here. The Minister for Infrastructure could give a mandate to the Swedish Transport Agency to promote increased cycling. The Minister for Infrastructure could amend the Swedish Transport Agency's regulations to allow cycling towards one-way routes, provided it is well signposted. It is done in many other places in Europe. I do not understand why it should be so difficult to allow this in Sweden.
i-426136f3ca7be703-197	Madam President, I would like It is allowed in Sweden. It is not just elsewhere in Europe. It even works in Gothenburg, Helsingborg, Malmö and Uppsala. The problem is that Stockholm just came up with the idea of putting up illegal signs. The Swedish Transport Agency has to comply with the legislation that Jens Holm, as a Member of Parliament, has supported, and it states that what the City of Stockholm did was not legal. It is, of course, up to the residents and those responsible in Stockholm to decide if you want to try illegal activities and put up signs that do not work, but perhaps first, before implementing new systems, you should find out the legality of what you are implementing. I think it is important that we have good opportunities for cycling. I can see good examples of the fact that there is a ban on motor traffic signs or other types of signs opening up the possibility of cycling in the other direction as well. It releases surfaces. It protects cyclists from perhaps operating on other busy roads. It can be good to promote cycling. I honestly do not think that Jens Holm and I have different views on this. Should it turn out – I can be clear about that – that it is necessary to amend the legislation in order to promote cycling further, I am, of course, prepared to try it. However, I note that today we have well-functioning solutions in other cities. What was done in Stockholm, however, was not legal. The Swedish Transport Agency has the task, as an authority, to ensure that the legislation decided by the Riksdag is actually complied with. I do not think that the starting point for cycling, if it is to be safe, is a trial or that you try new ideas of your own that you make up. Instead, it is a matter of carefully planning that cyclists who are going to cycle through the cities in an improved mobility can make it safe. I think it is important that a safe perspective is constantly taken into account, whether we talk about how to implement electric scooters as mobility instruments in cities or open up for cycling. We have seen an increase in the number of vulnerable road users injured, and however well Jens Holm and I want to promote increased mobility in cities with electric scooters, bicycles or electric bicycles, we must also ensure that this is done safely. That will be the starting point for the government to move forward in the future on the basis of the milestones that we have reinforced in the area of road safety. I appreciate the inventiveness of many cities, but I also believe that the starting point and what the citizens expect is that the guides and signs set up are also legal.
i-426136f3ca7be703-204	Madam President, I would like It is true, as the Minister for Infrastructure says: in many other cities, not least around Europe, cycling is allowed towards one-way. Some forms of signage are used in this regard. I think it would be good if we could agree to use the signage that is most visible to road users and that gets the best compliance. The City of Stockholm used the sign C3 – ban on motor vehicles, I think it is called – and compliance was not at all good. There was great confusion, and people simply broke that signage. You didn't really understand. It was also uncertain for cyclists. Now that the signs with the sign C1, the ban on entry with vehicles and a small additional plate where it says are not valid for bikes, it has become very much clearer for all road users. It has been very appreciated, and the two-way bike streets are used by a lot of cyclists in Stockholm. Then I think it is unfortunate, and it feels almost a bit like paragraph-riding, when an authority knocks down on such a valued and successful reform as this has been in Stockholm City. So 450 streets have been bidirectional for cyclists. The signage is also used in other European cities, so I think it feels as if we here in Sweden and in the case of Stockholm are making a very narrow interpretation of our regulations. It is clear, however, that our authority has now done this interpretation, and then the ball lies with us to tell the authority that it was wrong here. The Minister and the Government can change regulations and regulations to our authorities, so the Minister could change the regulations to the Swedish Transport Agency so that the City of Stockholm and other municipalities that use the C1 sign can continue to use the signage that they themselves think works best for road users in that city. I would therefore like to ask the Minister once again whether he is prepared to engage in a dialogue with and then return to the Transport Agency with instructions that allow for the most effective signage so that we can allow bidirectional streets for cyclists where it suits.
i-426136f3ca7be703-210	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm! It is a bit remarkable when the chairman of the Transport Committee says that it is paragraph-riding when the Transport Agency follows the law he himself has been involved in deciding on. We'll be a little careful. It is the authorities that have to follow through, and I think that in very many contexts we think it is good that our authorities ensure that we comply with the laws, rules and regulations that we agree on. We cannot have a development in which municipalities make up their own experiments that may sometimes be legitimate but which can also create uncertainty and insecurity in traffic. We still have a system in Sweden where we try to have a national uniformity and rules. We also see that many other Swedish cities achieve and find solutions where you can travel in both directions even with one-way traffic. Let us therefore first of all state that it is important to comply with the rules we have and not to put up signs that are actually illegal. I hope Jens Holm would like to underline that. I believe that local citizens expect something better. The second part is the very starting point: Yes, we will promote safe cycling. It's important. If it turns out that there is a need for change, I am of course prepared to contribute to this in the same way that I have contributed to and have decided that we have a cycling strategy and a national cycling centre and that in many other ways we are promoting cycling. I've made that clear. We developed a national plan where cycling was included for the first time even with large government resources and not just as a municipal responsibility. It is the transfer that Jens Holm, I and many more have actually contributed to: that cycling is no longer just a local but a national issue. It is a climate issue and a mobility issue. It is important to design and develop a national cycling policy, and it is all the more important that we take advantage of the enthusiasm and creativity of our cities. At the same time, we should be careful that it should be done so that we also follow the laws and guidelines that exist. Let us work together to find more roads to promote bicycles, electric bicycles, electric scooters and other vehicles that promote urban mobility. It's good for the climate, it's good for health and it's good for mobility too. That's where I think we can all agree.
i-426136f3ca7be703-217	Madam President, I would like How good that the minister wants to promote increased cycling! That is exactly what we in the Left Party want, and that is why we want to spend more money on the development of bicycle infrastructure. That is why we want concrete, timed and quantifiable targets in the cycle strategy. That is also why we want to trim what we already have. For there are some simple measures that municipalities can do – for example, two-way streets that are one-way for cars so that you can cycle there. It is therefore a little hopeful, Madam President, that the minister responsible says that he is prepared to look at the question of whether it turns out to be a problem. Tomas Eneroth! What can be a clearer signal to us legislators now that we see that there is a problem here? It's about 450 streets in Stockholm City. We have a lot of other municipalities that use the same signage as they have done in Stockholm, but our authority interprets the laws and regulations that we agree on in such a way that this signage may not be used. Thus one cannot allow cycling towards one-way routes. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure: what further information does the Minister for Infrastructure need in order for him to understand that this is a very important issue? Has the Minister of Infrastructure been in contact, for example, with the City of Stockholm on the matter? Has he been in contact with Cykelfrämjandet and Sweden's Bicycle Cities that indicate that this is an important issue? We must be able to continue to allow cycling towards one-way. If the signage used in the City of Stockholm is the most effective and the one that works best, then I think it is time, Madam President, to amend the regulations to the Swedish Transport Agency. Is the Minister prepared to do that?
i-426136f3ca7be703-222	Madam President, I would like I note that the chairman of the Transport Committee does not mention in a word whether it is a problem that we do not comply with the laws and rules we have to create safe cycling. I find that troubling. Otherwise, we fully share the point of departure that we should promote cycling. Of course, I have also been in contact with the bike promotion and other organisations that do a very good job of promoting cycling. But we need to be careful. We are going to make changes that citizens can rely on when they are out cycling. You should know that signs and directions are legal, proven and jointly decided. We should not have experiments on road safety. On the other hand, we will ensure that we have a good creativity in proposing good solutions to promote urban mobility. The implementation of electric scooters in the Stockholm region is a good example of how not to act. The least you can say is that it led to complete confusion, something that even Jens Holm himself has lifted up in a number of interpellations. Road safety and promoting cycling and mobility are too important to just be the outcome of spontaneous ideas. It must be a matter of carefully tested work and a change in the regulatory framework – if this proves necessary. Let me still say something about regulations. Today it is possible to allow cycling in both directions, even if car traffic is in only one direction. This is how it works in many other Swedish cities. If it turns out that it is a concern and that changes are needed, I have said that I am also prepared to try to move forward. I want us to continue to develop good opportunities for cycling. It is good for the climate, and it is good for public health.
i-426136f3ca7be703-228	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures I intend to take to give the organisations involved in road safety access to relevant data on accidents on national roads. Sweden is a world leader in road safety, and the government prioritises road safety work. The government has increased its ambition for road safety by deciding on a new milestone for fatalities and injuries in traffic. The new target includes, among other things, a halving of the number of road fatalities by 2030. Many actors, such as public authorities, business and non-profit organisations, contribute to the development of road safety. Several different associations use data from Strada (Swedish Traffic Accident Data Acquisitio n ), i.e. the Swedish Transport Agency's accident database, including for further training and to spread knowledge about road safety. It is important for non-profit organisations to have access to the information they need to contribute to road safety. However, the extent to which and the manner in which an authority may disclose information may be assessed by the Authority in the light of the Publicity and Confidentiality Act and, where appropriate, the Data Protection Regulation.
i-426136f3ca7be703-231	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth for his reply. On September 3, 1967, we crossed over to right-hand traffic, and if I have not read wrong, I believe that the death toll in traffic at that time was 1 300 people a year. After that, Sweden has undergone a fantastic development in terms of road safety. Last year we had the smallest death toll in traffic at all. This is something that has happened with the help of NGOs. The SMC, on which I base my reasoning in the interpellation, performs every year roastings for motorcyclists. They are trained to be able to brake safely, such as cornering. It's about handling the motorcycle safely out in traffic, following the regulations, being observant of how other road users behave in traffic or that other road users don't see me as a motorcyclist when I'm on the road. I do not know if the Government has visited any of the courses that SMC conducts every spring, but I would strongly recommend that the Government go there. I know that the management of the SMC is watching this debate, and I would not be surprised if there were an invitation in the spring. The Government will then have the opportunity to see how important the voluntary road safety work is. It is not only SMC but also Motor, FAK, Sweden's female car corps, NTF and many more who have the help of the data in Strada. They can develop their road safety work and train road users to improve their traffic performance. It is thanks to the efforts of NGOs that such success has been achieved in road safety work in Sweden. Of course, the police can fine anyone who breaks a barrage line, and the police can fine anyone who does not stop or drive too fast. But the big stakes actually make the volunteers. They spend thousands of hours each year to contribute to a safe traffic environment. Now the state agencies fail by strangling important information available to contribute to the common goal, i.e. that as few people as possible should be killed or injured in traffic. It is not so long since the major road safety conference was held in Stockholm. We were then told how to do things in other countries, and we were also able to see that 3,700 people die in traffic every day. It is an extremely important effort that NGOs make at home to help minimise the number of people killed and injured in traffic. I myself have been active in many of the organizations for many years, and I have trained drivers to handle particularly heavy vehicles in slippery roads. There is a difference between getting in a passenger car on a slippery roadway or getting in a vehicle weighing up to 60 tonnes. It is important to prepare drivers to deal with such a situation so that there is no accident. If a driver is still in trouble, the damage shall be minimised. I would like to hear how the Government is reasoning on these issues. I understand that there is protection for data, privacy and so on, but we must not miss focus.
i-426136f3ca7be703-239	Madam President, I would like First of all, let me say that it is not true that the Swedish Transport Agency has closed out 200 organisations from Strada, but the Swedish Transport Agency has decided to shut down 206 individual users from direct access to Strada's withdrawal web. There's a difference. The background is, of course, that it concerns the protection of classified information or personal data and where the regulatory framework must be complied with. The Authority has the task of applying the existing legislation. Having said that, I, Thomas Morell and many others are convinced that it is important to be able to provide as much service and information as possible to civil society in particular. I myself have been a member of the SMC, and I really appreciate the work that MHF, NTF, MHRF and AHK, in which I am also a member, do. It is incredibly important to have the civil engagement and peoples' movement commitment that exists for road safety. This is not the only explanation for the success of road safety. Although I am a peoples' movement person, I believe that one must humbly realise that the car industry's fantastic development work and the Finnish Transport Administration's implementation of the zero vision for a safe infrastructure, which protects road users even when they do wrong, has of course been absolutely crucial to the Swedish road safety success. That work must continue. It was an important re-launch for this work on the global ministerial conference that was held and where 1,800 participants discussed road safety worldwide. They came from 140 different countries with about eighty ministers to the recent conference in Stockholm. We adopted an offensive and progressive Stockholm declaration. For the Swedish part, this means that we have renewed the milestones in road safety, and we will continue to work to increase road safety. Nevertheless, we should stretch out, given that last year in Sweden we had the lowest number of deaths in traffic ever. Once that is said, the government and my starting point is that civil society should be an important part of road safety work. This also means that the authorities must disclose information and be helpful, but they must take into account the law on disclosure and confidentiality and, where appropriate, the regulation of data protection. This is an issue I am closely following, and I think it is important that we look forward to how we can work together to support the civil engagement that exists in all organisations, whether it be the SMC's defrosting courses when testing counter-control or other things, or whether it should be AHK's interest in our veteran cars and our vehicle fleet.
i-426136f3ca7be703-247	Madam President, I would like During my time at the traffic police, I did about 300 technical investigations. It was about seeing if it was vehicles, drivers or roads that were the cause of the accident. I've been to accident sites where people have just lost their lives or have been badly injured, and I've been sitting on the ditch edge trying to comfort and calm people who have experienced the worst moment of their lives. I have mounted a CD from a badly demolished car just so that the parents would get that record and be able to listen to the same music as their child, who had just lost his life in that car. There is no doubt that these events have influenced me in the road safety work. I think it is extremely important to minimise the number of road deaths. Every death we can avoid is valuable, partly for the people who have family members and partly for society. I do not know if the figures are correct today, but a few years ago I heard that every death in traffic costs the state $2 million. It'll be big money fast if we just stick to the money. The human suffering out there is unmeasured in money. It is therefore sad that voluntary organisations are not given the opportunity to contribute to reducing the number of accidents on our roads. I know from experience how important this basis is for you to be able to set up a good syllabus and help drivers to handle vehicles in slip, brake correctly if they drive a motorcycle, keep their distance, use a seatbelt when they are in a car, secure the goods if they drive a truck and so on. It is extremely important basic knowledge for the vehicles they are supposed to drive. Now you remove the material that these organizations work with. They spend voluntary time and resources to help our common society avoid the consequences of serious accidents along the way. I think it's boring. It feels a bit like we are now backing into the future. We will not have the same effects in the future as we have in all the years when we have been able to reduce the number of people killed and injured in traffic, consistently over many years. Sure, the cars have become much safer. We got ABS on motorcycles. The road environment has been changed so that it should be gentle – but not for motorcyclists, because cable racks are still a threat for them. Much is done on different fronts. But all parts must fall into place in order for us to achieve a good result. You usually say that no chain is stronger than its weakest link. If we remove the prerequisites for the voluntary organisations to contribute to safe traffic and educate both current and future road users, we are doing ourselves a disservice. I sincerely hope that the Minister will be involved in helping us to get this information out. You can filter out things that can be traced to individuals. It is important to be able to find out what caused the accident itself.
i-426136f3ca7be703-255	Madam President, I would like For those who listen to the debate, I will be careful to tell you what we are talking about. I think we agree that civil society organisations should have good access because they are important in the road safety work. But what does Strada contain? As a general rule, it does not contain personal data. This means that most of the information can be disclosed on request. However, direct access for people has meant that they have had the opportunity to access data that are also of the nature of who was involved in a traffic accident and what the injuries were, i.e. data that can very much be privacy sensitive. The EU Data Protection Directive is clear on this point: it should not and should not disclose what may be privacy-sensitive data to individuals, who will then be able to access this data via direct access. There has to be a trial. In this case, an application is made to the Swedish Transport Agency, which then makes an assessment. I think it is important for those following the debate to know what it is about. It is not that our civil society organisations can no longer access aggregated data from Strada, but that it is about protecting personal privacy. That is the starting point for the agency's work. In my reply here, I have been careful to emphasise the incredibly important role of civil society in road safety. It is important that you get and be able to access the data that are common in order to be able to do an even better road safety work. But I want there to be an understanding – and I believe that Thomas Morell appreciates this, who has experience in seeing people injured in road accidents – that individuals' privacy should not be damaged by people with direct access being able to use the data incorrectly. This is why the EU Data Protection Regulation is implemented, and this is being completed by the Swedish Transport Agency. I think that is an important starting point. However, as the government has said, it is up to the authority itself to decide, but as far as possible it is only good to support and help civil society. It is something I will continue to work with, both as a member of MSC earlier and in AHK now and with strong peoples' movement engagement in general. It is an important part of getting broad support for road safety work. Last time, I would like to take advantage of the fact that I still have time in this House. We now experience as we talk speed and road safety that there is an emerging populism from some who do not take into account how best to protect life. Here, organizations such as MHF, NTF and other road safety organisations are incredibly important. We must not allow the populist wind that sweeps over many other policies to break through even in the area of road safety. This is important in Sweden, where we have nevertheless been successful and had broad support for road safety work, and it is even more important globally. The most common cause of death among children and adolescents in the world is to die in a road accident. This is due to the sharp increase in traffic we see not least in Africa and Asia and due to a lack of knowledge about how to implement the zero vision. Here is Sweden a pioneer country. Here we help the rest of the world with advice and actions, both from civil society and from incredibly talented experts at Trafikverket and in other organisations that work internationally to develop and implement the zero vision. It saves lives. It saves lives all over the world, and we'll be proud of that.
i-426136f3ca7be703-264	Madam President, I would like I do not believe for a moment that populism will govern our organizations that work with road safety. In addition, they are far too robust. They have done an enormous amount of work in the area of road safety, for example by informing about sobriety and such things and how important it is to be sober when sitting behind the wheel. I have taken note of information from Strada. I only have a few pages here, but they were 317 pages. They say nothing about what was the cause of the accident itself, how the road was or what happened in connection with the accident. When I did investigations myself, it was extremely important to understand how the accident had occurred. What was the reason? Was it the road that was the problem, and if so, what was the problem with the road? Was it the bombing? Was it gravel on the roadway, or was it something else? Was that the vehicle? Was there a problem with the steering or the brakes? Was it a faulty tire equipment? Last time you looked at the driver. In what condition was the driver? Was the driver sober? Did he have access to the vehicle and so on? With this they put puzzles to see what was the reason. It is equally important for these organisations to understand what happened in an accident and then be able to set up their training so that they can train and thus minimise the risk of new accidents. These organisations have no self-interest in knowing whether it was Kalle, Pelle, Stina or Olle who were involved in the accident. They are interested in knowing what was the cause and what they can do to avoid such an accident happening again. If we cannot educate people and ensure that this is avoided, we will still have deaths in the future.
i-426136f3ca7be703-269	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell! I do not believe that our views differ in substance. We want organisations' expertise to be taken into account and to be able to access data from Strada, not least at an aggregate level. But I think that the example mentioned by Thomas Morell himself shows the problem. Was the driver sober? What were the driving characteristics? What were the conditions behind the accident? Then we are talking about what can be privacy sensitive and personal data, and we must respect that. It is not only about data protection legislation on principle, but also about those people who otherwise see that the behaviour of their loved ones in traffic can become public. We must respect this respect for how we protect privacy. I am not at all worried that the organisations are mishandling this. I know that there is both solid commitment and enthusiasm and interest. It is therefore important for the Authority, when carrying out the right tests based on the integrity aspect and some other aspects, to disclose information at the request of these organisations. But the authority has changed the direct access of individuals, and I can understand that. However, the government's starting point, which also seems to be Thomas Morell's starting point, which I appreciate, is that we should take advantage of the commitment to the peoples' movement organisations. Not least SMC saves lives through their educations. One could therefore wish that even more of our active motorcyclists would be members so that they could gain information, knowledge and access to the trainings offered by SMC. This is an incredibly important effort to protect motorcyclists, who have an unprotected position compared to other road users and may be the ones who have to be the most attentive of all who are driving in traffic.
i-426136f3ca7be703-273	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked whether I and the Government intend to proceed with the Swedish Maritime and Water Authority's proposal and introduce camera surveillance of Swedish fishing vessels, whether there are other professional groups within the agricultural industries that the Government and the Government are considering monitoring cameras for the purpose of controlling compliance, and whether I or the Government have plans to take any measures that strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish professional fishing and facilitate generational and ownership shifts. The overall objective of the Government's Food Strategy is a competitive food chain where total food production increases while at the same time achieving relevant national environmental objectives. Setting fishing opportunities at long-term sustainable levels is a prerequisite for a profitable and competitive fishing and processing industry in the long term. Increased competitiveness and profitability in Swedish professional fishing, which facilitates generational and ownership shifts, requires a holistic approach. Targeted measures are needed to address many of the environmental challenges facing stocks to recover to sustainable levels that can secure the future of professional and recreational fishing. The Government has therefore invested an additional SEK 240 million annually in 2020 – 2022 to primarily strengthen efforts to combat eutrophication in order to improve the environmental situation in the sea and thus improve the habitats of fish stocks in the Baltic Sea. The government is well aware that many Swedish fishermen are committed to contributing to a better environment in our seas and has in particular enabled HaV to contribute funds in 2020 to facilitate the participation of professional fishing in projects and measures aimed at improving fish stocks a status and habitat. The landing obligation is an example of a measure aimed at avoiding waste of marine biological resources and at promoting sustainable use and hence the economic viability of fishing. High compliance with the landing obligation requires an effective control system. Internationally and within several Member States, trials on camera surveillance have been carried out. In some countries, camera surveillance is also a fully implemented control method for certain fisheries. Despite the landing obligation, the Maritime and Water Authority reports that there are strong indications that large quantities of fish are still being discarded, which is a major waste as the fish die. The government has therefore commissioned the Maritime and Water Authority to propose how a trial of camera surveillance of fishing vessels can be conducted in accordance with the substantive political agreement reached between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party. The Riksdag has also previously asked for experimentation with this method of control. The Government Office has received and is currently analysing the Authority's mission report. The Authority's starting point is that participation in the experiment should be based on voluntary nature. According to the agency, it is a clear lesson from previous trials with camera surveillance systems that the chances of a successful attempt are increased with acceptance from fishing. Camera technology is currently being developed in many areas and is being introduced in several sectors for different purposes such as data collection, control or productivity. It is important that the technology is used effectively and contributes to cost-effectiveness. According to the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, the use of the term n camera surveillance and camera surveillance systems is somewhat misleading. The electronic systems used to control vessel activity at sea consist of cameras and sensors. Examples of sensors are temperature sensors, sensors that indicate when sorting bands start, winch sensors and gps+, i.e. position indication. In order to strengthen the competitiveness of professional fishing, the Government has strengthened the financing of one of the measures under the Maritime and Fisheries Programme to enable investment and business development of professional fishing companies under the Food Strategy Action Plan, which was agreed last December. In the slightly longer term perspective, work is underway on a strategy for future fisheries and on the development of the Swedish programme for the next European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMFF) programming period 2021 – 2027. The programme will be one of the main financial tools for managing the future development of the fisheries sector. The Government has made it clear that the current strategy of the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management and the Swedish Agriculture Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture will be based on an ecosystem approach and contribute to a competitive and sustainable food chain. The implementation of the strategy will include skills provision, diversification and profitability, all of which are important elements for achieving a competitive sector that can facilitate generation and ownership shifts.
i-426136f3ca7be703-283	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In politics, we often agree on objectives and visions. On the other hand, we often cross the road there. As far as the future of Swedish professional fishing is concerned, I very much hope that we agree – that we want, across party and block boundaries, to see viable professional fishing that is developing, not being phased out. But, Madam President, I will be honest: in fact, I doubt that all eight parties in Parliament really want to see competitive fishing. My doubts concern not least the two parties of the government, because what are the signals that the government sends to the unfortunately shrinking corps of fishermen? The latest government declaration did not contain a word from Prime Minister Löfven that he and the government want to strengthen professional fishing and not a single appreciative word about the fine work done by the Swedish profession of fishermen to develop more gentle and selective fishing gear. The only concrete measure mentioned by the Prime Minister in his last government declaration on fisheries was control and ban. More control and more bans – this is the Prime Minister's and the Government's message to Swedish fishermen. These, Madam President, are not signals that I believe create confidence in the future in Swedish fisheries. It is hardly possible to have greater confidence in the future either if you read the so-called 73-point programme that the January parties, that is, the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Green Party and the Liberals, have jointly negotiated. Nor is there an appreciative word about Swedish professional fishing or any expressed desire to reduce the regulatory burden or otherwise strengthen the competitiveness of fishing. Instead, the information given to professional fishing is to introduce a general stop to bottom trawling in protected areas and camera surveillance of fishing vessels. As regards the plans of the January parties to introduce a general stop to bottom trawling in protected areas, I and the Minister have had a debate on this issue in this House in the past. Then I highlighted the devastating consequences such a general ban could have. Very much of shellfish fishing in Sweden is conducted in protected areas, but it is conducted in a sustainable way, with just gentle and selective gear. If a general stop is introduced in the Kosterhavet National Park, for example, much of the professional fishing in northern Bohuslän is over. It would also be a hit against the successful local collaboration model that has emerged there. Madam President, I would like This interpellation, which I have now made and which we are now debating, is specifically and almost exclusively about the monitoring of fisheries. The January parties have agreed to introduce camera surveillance in order to improve compliance with the discard ban. The purpose is good. Of course we should have good compliance. But I do not think it is a proportionate measure. The goal does not always justify the means. On the other hand, it sends a serious signal to Swedish professional fishing that it is more suspicious than appreciating the corps. In my interpellation, I asked three questions. That was obviously at least one issue too much. For one I did not get an answer at all. Therefore, I repeat it to the Minister: are there any other professional groups that the Minister is considering monitoring with a view to controlling compliance?
i-9K8CWev1oAAhCugxUhAGg6	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Hultberg, for the interpellation! This is an important issue that deserves serious debate on. However, it is a bit sad that Johan Hultberg's intention falls a little flat. I think you read government news a little like hell reading the Bible and making your own interpretations of what has been said or has not been said. I also note that of the six minutes Johan Hultberg had to present his views on camera surveillance, which was the subject of the interpellation, 53 seconds were spent on it. Otherwise, it had to be filled with something else. It's a little significant. They are trying to create a conflict that, to a large extent, does not actually exist. I have great respect for the role and right of the opposition. But I do not think it serves the issue very well. When it comes to trying to ensure good competitive advantages for our professional fishing, I think we are fundamentally in agreement. This is also my picture from the discussions I have had with the Committee on Environment and Agriculture on, among other things, the challenges we have with regard to stocks. Many stocks, not least cod, partly also herring, are severely challenged by poor marine environments. The government has made a number of different decisions. It has been a position towards the EU on having quotas that are at a reasonable level to ensure long-term sustainable fishing quotas. We have commissioned authorities to investigate and prepare for license hunting on grey seals, as this is a challenge in this context. We have not least given the task of investigating how you can work to create better marine environments. In this budget we made a big decision to add SEK 240 million to that grant. It also opens up, through clear wording, for professional fishing to benefit from that money through environmental objectives. In addition to that, we continue to work on issues such as camera surveillance. It is an issue that Sweden not only deals with itself, but it is just like the other issues linked to the work we do at EU level. There, too, this issue is being prepared and processed. Several countries are already trying, and some countries have, as I have said, continuously introduced it into their systems for certain fishing groups. There is reason to believe that there will be such sharp proposals at European level. In this situation, to say that it is disproportionate to propose and work on a voluntary basis in Sweden, I think that the honourable Member is not serious. I would like to receive back suggestions as to what would be proportionate in this context. The honourable Member may think that there will be no sharp proposals at EU level and that we in Sweden do not need to prepare ourselves or our Swedish fishermen for such a scenario. But I think that the basis of the proposal, of doing so on a voluntary basis, is extremely important. We are currently preparing the proposal drawn up by the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management. Dialogue is ongoing with stakeholders in the industry to find out in which segments it should take place and to find companies that are willing to test. In the next post I will be happy to return to how to work with digitalization and camera surveillance in other sectors. ( THIRD VICE TALMANN: I would like to state very well that Members never have more than four minutes for their interpellation speeches. )
i-426136f3ca7be703-301	Madam President, I would like Maybe I spoke so fast that it felt like six or seven minutes, what do I know? Madam President, I would like Joke aside, I am genuinely concerned about the development of Swedish professional fishing. There was a recent report from Agrifood where you have gone through what it looks like in Swedish fishing. They have looked at the profitability of the industry, the difference in profitability between the different fishing areas in Sweden and the profitability of the different forms of fishing carried out, i.e. whether you use active or passive gear and so on. The report is partly rather bleak reading. The number of fishing vessels continues to decrease. During the period studied in the report, the decrease was around 24 per cent in total. At home on the west coast, from which I come, the decrease was over 28 percent. That makes me concerned about the competitiveness of Swedish professional fishing, Madam President. I am also concerned about the political signals that are coming. Now the minister felt that my interpretation of the government's message and signals was like when the hell reads the Bible. However, I refer only to what the Prime Minister has de facto said in the Government Declaration and to what is de facto in the January Agreement. There is no mention of any simplifications. There is no mention of how to strengthen competitiveness. The concrete elements of the Government Declaration and the January Agreement are more control and bans. That worries me, both in terms of signal value and substance. The ban on bottom trawling in protected areas leads to errors. I think that we in Sweden have a fishing that takes great responsibility and is already engaged in sustainable fishing. There is also a great commitment within the corps to go further and continue the development work. The work that the government is now doing to support the development of new and more gentle gears and trapping methods is good. It's a work begun by the Alliance. It is good that this can happen in the long term. However, concrete measures are also needed to strengthen competitiveness. When I meet fishermen, I hear that they feel that they are faced with constant mistrust, from politics and unfortunately also from the authorities. The joy of the profession is suffocated in many ways, not only by oxygen-free bottoms but also by rules and bureaucracy. I myself have been out with some fishermen and I can say what enormous regulations they should live up to, how much data should be documented and that there should always be a logbook over. If the fisherman makes a mistake, there will be fines. If we're going to get better compliance, I think it's largely about working with the corps and creating dialogue. I don't think camera surveillance is a proportionate tool to use. Above all, I do not think that Sweden should, as so many times before, go ahead and over-implement controls and regulations. If this type of action comes, it must at least be done jointly, together and equally across the Union. Madam President, I would like I would like more concrete measures to strengthen competitiveness. I think it would have been good to have, for example, a regulatory simplification commission. I think it would have been good if the government came back with a concrete action plan to facilitate generational and ownership shifts and to make it easier to step into the profession and become a fisherman. Unfortunately, we see fewer fishermen, fewer vessels and more and more middle-aged fishermen. The future of Swedish fishing therefore does not look very bright unless there is a change in Swedish politics.
i-426136f3ca7be703-311	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Hultberg, for constructive suggestions! I am happy to take the debate on how we constructively strengthen the green industries, which are within my remit. As far as fisheries are concerned, there are undoubtedly huge challenges. The biggest is that we need to ensure that there are long-term sustainable stocks. I feel that there is broad agreement on this today, both in Sweden and in the EU. But of course it has consequences, especially for those in the industry. It is therefore important to work with measures in the short and long term. Measures are needed to manage that you are not allowed to fish the volumes that you had planned or are not allowed to fish at all. We have, for the first time, activated standstill aid within the framework of the EU fisheries programme in Sweden. We are also looking at whether we need to take other short-term measures to ensure that the fishing industry survives the very tough situation that exists in many places in Sweden today. In addition, you obviously need to work long-term. It is, for example, a question of developing selective tools, as the honourable Member mentioned. We are spending more money to continue this work, which I think is very important. It is also a question of seeing that fishing is part of the food strategy. We are talking about food. Of course, the four priority areas identified in Action Plan 2, which were presented just before Christmas, also cover fisheries. The priority areas are regulatory simplification, skills provision, research and innovation, and exports. Exports in this situation are possibly somewhat more far-fetched in terms of fishing. But regulatory simplification and skills provision are extremely relevant and urgent. There are also examples of fishing and its industry linked to this. I think you could win a great deal by testing pilots in this area, for example, because it is still a small and limited industry. This can be done on condition that there is a dialogue with the industry. I share the interpellier's view that everything that can be done in dialogue with the industry will be much better placed to both quickly gain a foothold and be able to accelerate in order to benefit the industry and consumers. It is also important to bear in mind that it is broader than just fishing, if we now have fisheries and the fishing industry as an example. There is also, of course, a processing industry, as well as a tourism industry, which is largely linked to the fact that there is a functioning fishing industry in different parts of the world. In particular, coastal fishing is very important in this context. It can also apply to shellfish if we talk about the west coast, when you visit places there. It all depends on the culture of typical coastal towns. The question is very broad. That is why we are trying to take a holistic approach. We have commissioned the relevant authorities – HaV and the Swedish Board of Agriculture – to develop a maritime strategy that extends over time. They will look at how to secure the industry in a short perspective but also what is needed to ensure that the industries are also present in the future and for future generations. This is a work in progress. All constructive input, both from the industry and from politics, is very welcome.
i-426136f3ca7be703-320	Madam President, I would like I am pleased with quite a lot of what the Minister said in the last speech, not least that we need to look at fisheries in a broader perspective. For me as a resident, professional fishing is one of our basic industries. It goes hand in hand with another, emerging basic nutrition, which these days has an extremely tough situation. I'm talking about the hospitality business. What would be Smögenbryggan, Smögen and Strömstad without the shrimps? The shells are part of our identity and form an important part of our brand Bohuslän, which makes people flock there in the summer. Many of the small fishing communities along the coast are approaching a critical level. Fewer and fewer businesses and fishermen will share the cost of the infrastructure that needs to be maintained. It can be about transportation to auctions and other things. This is worrying. I really want to inculcate the seriousness of this so that we try to reverse the development of Swedish fishing. I think that in this context there is actually a need for some symbolic policy – positive one – that shows that we believe in Swedish fishing and that we want it to remain. It must show that we want fisheries to develop and not to be phased out. As the Minister said, there are stocks for which it is critical. It is difficult to carry out proper fishing on them. However, in the case of shellfish, for example, we do not even fish the quota of Norway lobster that we have. It is therefore worrying when the government and the January parties put forward a proposal that would seriously threaten shellfish fishing on the bohus and west coast. This is, of course, a fishery conducted on sustainable stocks with increasingly selective and gentle tools. I hope that the Minister goes from words to action and is prepared to look in dialogue with the industry at how the rules can be reduced and simplified, how the tax burden may be reduced and how competitiveness as a whole can be strengthened.
i-426136f3ca7be703-325	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Hultberg, for a good debate! I agree with much of what was said in the last speech. There is at the bottom a great deal of consensus on much of this. I believe that together – both politics and industry – we have a need to ensure that we have the right tools, but also that there is legitimacy for the issues. When it comes to camera monitoring, which the interpellation was about, my starting point is that it is important that we prepare for something coming. Either we get to put it on in the form of an EU directive and we get to start from it, or we look at how we can adapt camera surveillance based on Swedish conditions. We can do this by testing pilots and trials on a voluntary basis with segments suitable for this in Sweden. Keywords are so far and so on a voluntary basis. This is the input value. I do not think this is a disproportionate way of dealing with the issue. In addition, it is extremely important that we are also helped to communicate the tools that we get in place. In addition to the 240 million that is now being pushed to HaV, the regulation changes and opens the way for professional fishing to be able to take part in restoration of environmental measures, be part of research projects and other things. This is important in a short perspective, in order to in some sense keep a crisising industry under its arms – keep it afloat – while helping to create good conditions for the industry's long-term survival. This is an important business. There's a lot to do here. We need to be prepared to work both short-term and long-term.
i-426136f3ca7be703-331	Madam President, I would like Ali Esbati has asked me whether it is my position that the LOV pilot should continue unchanged despite the government's determination that the reform of the Employment Service should not be based on LOV. He has also asked me what measures I will take to compensate municipalities that are adversely affected by the LOV pilot of the Employment Service. The Employment Service is being reformed to better support the unemployed and enable more employers to find the right skills. The reform will be implemented in a responsible and orderly manner. There must be conditions for continuous development and improvement if necessary. The reform of Arbetsförmedlingen should not be based on the law on freedom of choice, LOV, but the most appropriate form of procurement for each service should be used. The reform is preceded by a broad development work carried out by Arbetsförmedlingen on behalf of the Government. This includes, among other things, the developed matching services to be introduced in 2020, which the Public Employment Service calls Customer Choice Equipped and Matching, KROM. The Public Employment Service was given this task before the direction of the reform changed. An important and clear aim of the mission is to draw lessons for the final design of the reformed system. This remains important also on the basis of the new direction of the reform, where the most appropriate form of procurement for each service should be used. The development work is carried out in close cooperation with the researchers at the Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation, IFAU. Lessons will be drawn on, among other things, the quality requirements that should be imposed on the performers, how the remuneration model should be designed and how different regional and local conditions affect. The fact that Arbetsförmedlingen applies r LOV for K undval equip and match does not change this fact. As regards municipalities, the government will monitor and analyse the possible effects of the reform on municipalities' activities and costs. It shall be ensured that the Public Employment Service has a presence and a functioning activity throughout the country, both during the implementation period and in the long term. Cooperation with municipalities, authorities and other actors must be ensured, not least with regard to those target groups with a weaker position in the labour market. The regulation letter for 2020 commissioned Arbetsförmedlingen to ensure and, if necessary, restore an appropriate local presence. After taking note of Arbetsförmedlingen's first progress report, I can note that the agency is now actively working on the Government's clear instructions to strengthen the local presence.
i-426136f3ca7be703-336	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. But I get a little disappointed and above all quite worried. It is a concern that will not be reduced by the time of crisis. My questions were asked before the corona problem hit Sweden. Today, we are in a situation where it is unfortunately clear that the Public Employment Service will have much more to do almost regardless of the future developments. The main issue is that the Minister now also gives notice in Parliament's Chamber that the pilot project for Customer Elections will equip and match, KROM, to continue as planned. Then it is good to remember what this is. What is supposed to be launched in a number of municipalities is a system that should come instead of what was called support and matching, one might say. The new system, however you twist it and turn it around, is a variant of the ideas that the Center Party and Liberals in particular have had about how to turn Swedish labour market policy into a kind of bazaar for energetic entrepreneurs. This is something for which a call for proposals has been drawn up. I got it right here. There are 43 pages that aim to rig a model of control and payout aimed at companies that want to come in and try their luck on this market. Already there, I would like to say that it is a bit of an affront to both the unemployed, who need help, and the employees of the Public Employment Service who have for a long time developed important knowledge and experience. The focus is necessarily – as is seen here too – procurement law rather than something related to active labour market policies. One can especially look at what is most interesting for those who want to enter this market, namely the replacement model. It is a replacement model inspired by the model they have had in Australia for a long time. People should undergo a kind of computerized classification at AF and be placed in groups (a), (b) and (c) according to how far away from the labour market they are deemed to be. Then it is this classification that determines how much money operators can earn. It is a benefit that is to be paid both as a basic benefit for being chosen by an unemployed person and then as a profit benefit depending on whether you end up in a job or not. There is also a speed premium for operators – there will be more money the faster they get away with people. You can count on this. There are also already people who have done so, including at the Academic Association SSR. What is clear is that the big difference is that operators will find it difficult to make money from something other than getting people out quickly. On the other hand, there is quite a lot of money to do there. This means that already in advance, without really thinking about all the other major problems with this system, with quite a lot of certainty, we can know that there will be very little equipping and matching done in this system. There are very bad incentives to offer an unemployed person support, traineeships or training to be able to get a job, for example if he or she has previously had an education from his or her home country. On the other hand, we will certainly see strong attempts to find or find low-skilled low-wage jobs that can work for this contract. It is not necessarily very good for the national economy or for the unemployed, but it does provide opportunities for cluttering in the cash register for those who can find the right grip. I could continue to tell you about the problems with this model, but unfortunately I do not have time for that. I might have to come back to the next speech on this. But I just want to ask the Minister again: is it really the case that the government and the cooperation parties have not drawn any conclusions from the debacle around the turn of the year? Are you really going to go ahead and rig a system based on LOV and based on this market model, which contains such obvious problems and risks?
i-426136f3ca7be703-342	Madam President, I would like I thank Ali Esbati for the questions. Of course, they're very important. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that we are currently in a very serious situation. We take part in daily notice that comes in. We have a very serious situation in the Swedish labour market. For this reason, I choose to be brief in the answers to the questions put by Ali Esbati. We have many other very urgent issues that we need to deal with. But the future reform of the agency is of course also important. KROM is a trial that starts in the days. It is very important that we have experimental activities and that we also link research and evaluation so that we can evaluate this type of pilot project before entering a new, reformed system. For this reason, I and the government believe that it is important for this work to continue, so that we can draw conclusions. Both the members of the Riksdag and the Government can from the evaluations and reports of this experimental activity that will eventually draw our conclusions from what works and what works less well. We are doing this to ensure that the reform of labour market policies and the Public Employment Service is carried out in the most orderly, wise and effective manner possible.
i-426136f3ca7be703-344	Madam President, I would like As I was in the first speech, I am aware that we are in a very worrying situation and that there are many things that will have to be done in the future in a situation where the perceptions are increasing. In the current situation, the government has in every way done much that is worthy of respect and applause. The crisis has so far been handled very well. As we can expect there to be a problem that the Minister for Labour and her government colleagues need to deal with, namely a likely increase in the number of unemployed in Sweden, as in other countries, it becomes all the more important to be careful about which reform projects are being launched. I point out the great risks that exist with what we are about to embark on and which we should not really do. That's where we stand. This is a test business that would have been bad in all situations, but which may be particularly bad in the situation that we are now entering. I will come back to the very essence of this. This pilot project is therefore something that should be based on the LOV, that is, the law on freedom of choice. There are quite a number of test results from the past in the field of LOV in the field of labour market policy. It has concerned establishment slots, job coaching and employment places for people with mental disabilities. Unfortunately, in all these cases, these LOV-based systems have been terminated for very good reasons. The reason is that there have been headlines, for example, that the establishment pilots may have recruited to the Islamic State and that administrators say that the reform collapsed. There has been talk of trafficking in human beings and mafia activities. I am convinced that it is not the government's intention to launch anything that can lead to trafficking in human beings, mafia activities or recruitment to IS. However, there are a large number of problems that I am certainly not alone in pointing out. One rigs a system that is designed to invite everyone who can meet a certain level of requirements and then says: Let's go see what happens! Nor is this a pilot project carried out in some kind of laboratory. Thirty-two municipalities are supposed to do this. A large part of their contact with the unemployed who need to be equipped and matched will for some time go through this LOV-based system if you start it. It still remains for me to understand whether the government is doing this to ensure that the Center Party is not too sad about what happened in Parliament a few months ago and that it is therefore a cost that you have to take. It's boring if that's the case. Or could it be that it really believes that it will provide a basis for reforming the whole system in that direction? If possible, it is even more serious. I would like the Minister for Employment to give some thought to this.
i-426136f3ca7be703-350	Madam President, I would like I have had the privilege of working with labour market policies for most of my adult life. I was sitting in this Chamber as a Member in the 1990s, when we had a huge unemployment rate. We are currently in a position where the whistles are coming at a very fast pace. We have a responsibility as politicians to act in the situation we are in right now. CROMs and experimental activities are something that comes during this year. It is important that, before launching new reforms or measures, we have the opportunity to evaluate and discuss them. For this reason, this type of pilot project should certainly not be cancelled. You're supposed to learn from them. We have connected to IFAU so that we also have the research and science with us. I can see from my perspective reforms that have been very successful and have worked. But we also have some examples in labour market policy where it has not worked. That is why we need to know what we are doing before launching a new, reformed system. The removal of experiments at that stage would be deeply unfortunate. It would be a guess, and I'm not prepared to do that. I would like to emphasise that we are now in an exceptional position in terms of labour market policy and jobs in Sweden. I have told the Ministry yesterday that we are currently paused the political discussions on the reform of the Employment Service. We need to focus here and now on the Authority being in the best position to be able to accept new entries. We know that the agency also has good capacity and preparedness for what now comes with the opportunity to kick off its notice organisation. There we have a long and good experience of how to work with it. That's my main focus right now.
i-426136f3ca7be703-355	Madam President, I would like To the extent that the Minister for Labour and her colleagues are working on what will be a kind of crisis management in the future in the labour market area, I and the Left Party are, of course, fully prepared to be constructive. This applies whether it is a matter of decision, discussion or reflection. What we are discussing today is precisely because of the concern that we are throwing a large part of Arbetsförmedlingen's organisation into something that is bad. That is what prompted the question and has led to a great deal of activity on our part in this area at all. The Minister for Labour talks about some reforms having gone well and some having gone badly. I'm fully aware of that. But neither have they been random. What I am trying to point out is that several of the elements on paper in the rigging of this model are proven to be poor, problematic and risky. That is why we are trying to point this out. This is, of course, a role of a political opposition. There are also many people working on these issues who have put questions on this particular part of the reform. The government has said that it should not build the continued reform of the Employment Service at LOV. This pilot project is based on LOV. It remains to be seen how to get those things together. I won't stop questioning things that are bad. But I will give full support to what the government is doing in the crises that are now arising if those things are sensible and sensible, and they have been so far.
i-426136f3ca7be703-361	Madam President, I would like I thank Ali Esbati, not least, for the important statement that in this serious situation we need to stand together and stick together politically. It is not only a question of reducing the transmission of the corona virus, but also of ensuring the capacity and the ability of care to act. Now we also see the effects that come on the economy and Swedish jobs. It is indeed high time for cohesion and for us to do what we can to save jobs and to ensure that the Public Employment Service has the very best opportunity to do its important work. It is about being able to receive the increased volume of people who will now probably sign up for Arbetsförmedlingen. It is important to ensure that there is good preparedness to deal with the notifications that are coming. In the next round, of course, it is a matter of seeing how we can contribute to the active efforts of those people who might lose their jobs. Now we are making very strong efforts with the package that came up yesterday with, for example, short-term lay-off and also with other ways of trying to support the business community. I would like to thank you for the important message that we are sticking together in this tough time.
i-426136f3ca7be703-365	Madam President, I would like Magnus Persson has asked me if I am prepared to take the initiative to change the work and to enable all Sweden's employees to work actively for safe workplaces and to review today's system regarding trade unions' preferential rights. The Swedish labour market model is based on joint cooperation with the collective agreement as a basis. As for the rest of the labour market, the social partners also play a central role in the field of health and safety at work. The social partners have an important role in how work environment management is carried out in the workplace and have a high level of competence and expertise in the area. It is for this reason that safety representatives are generally appointed by local employee organisations which are or tend to be bound by collective agreements in relation to the employer. Only in the absence of a collective agreement can safety representatives be appointed by other means. The safety representative is the employee's representative. Workers in Sweden are represented by trade unions. It is a crucial part of the Swedish model. Changing this system with cooperation based on collective agreements would be a serious interference with the Swedish model of partnership. A unique resource in the work environment would be lost. No one who works in Sweden should have a job where you are exploited or worn out. No one should have to get sick, hurt or die from the job. The safety representatives are saving lives, and it is therefore essential that they can, as they are today, work for all workers. In a conflict, the employee should be able to know that he or she has a clear representative who stands by him or her. The safety officer should in turn be able to know that there is a strong trade union organisation from which the employee can apply for support in the event of a conflict. I do not intend to press for the government to make proposals to dismantle the trade unions' right to appoint safety representatives.
i-426136f3ca7be703-369	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister for Employment. I fully understand that the government has a focus on other things in these times. It may feel like we should have had it another time, but here we are. On the whole, I agree with the Minister for Labour in her description of the role of safety representatives and how it looks on the Swedish labour market. But what is claimed in the answer is not quite true. It is not a question of banning trade unions from appointing safety representatives. If the workplaces want the trade unions to set up the safety representative, it works perfectly. Madam President, I would like The problem is when the workplace suggests people to safety representatives who are not in the union or have the wrong party book. They are then denied by the trade unions, who exercise their prerogatives. That's the big problem. There are a lot of examples of this. I myself am a shining example of how politically-governed trade unions abuse their mandate. I've been a construction worker for 26 years. I have been both a trade union steward and a safety representative, and I have spent many days at Rönneberga Kursgård here in Stockholm for political training, which is an essential part of the mission as a safety representative today. But I had to leave my assignments only because I left the Social Democrats and activated myself in another party. I don't think that should be the case in Sweden by 2020. Madam President, I would like This issue would never have been raised if it were not about the political governance of our trade unions. An individual party today uses the trade unions as a tool in the exercise of its power. It is a mandate that is no longer available today, given the support the government parties have among the members of the trade union organisations. Trade unions are built by working together, regardless of party affiliation. A trade union should not be a political control body for an individual party, but should work together. That is what this whole proposal is basically about. I would like to ask a few questions to the Minister for Labour: what does the Swedish Democrats' proposal say about banning trade unions from appointing safety representatives? It's just that we want to discuss preferential rights. Does the Minister of Labour believe that Swedish trade unions must be linked to an individual political party in order to operate? In what way would this proposal be a threat to the Swedish model, as the answer says, since it is only about involving more people in the work environment at Swedish workplaces?
i-426136f3ca7be703-376	Madam President, I would like I have to say that these are quite astonishing statements by the Member of Parliament, who claims that the union is a political control body and that it uses the protection organisation in this way. Nothing can be more wrong than that. The safety representatives represent the workers and everyone at the workplace. What I think is very important to sort out is whether we stand up for the Swedish party model or not. I want to be very clear here: I stand up for the Swedish partnership model, where trade unions, together with employers, take a great responsibility for the conditions in the labour market. I want to strengthen the possibilities of regional safety representatives, so that they have an increased right of access, also to workplaces where there are no members but where they have or usually are covered by collective agreements. The Swedish Democrats are opposed to this. Last year 47 workers died at Swedish workplaces. We need to strengthen the protection organization. We need more people stepping in as a safety representative. We need to ensure that the regional safety representatives who carry out vital work – it is barely 2 000 today – are given the right conditions. Already today, some 55 000 workplace visits are carried out annually by the Regional Safety Officers. They now want to replace the Swedish Democrats with government officials. I would like to ask Magnus Persson : How come you are always more keen to take away the opportunities of trade unions and safety representatives and that you never stand up for what is about giving safety representatives greater opportunities to improve the working environment and in that way also protect life and health?
i-426136f3ca7be703-381	Madam President, I would like When I listen to the Minister for Labour, I think she speaks against herself a little. You want more people to be involved in the work environment. You want more people to be safety representatives. Yet you are closing the door to almost 50% of Swedish employees, who have a different focus on which party they want to vote for. Today it is politics that governs. If you do not stand up for the Social Democratic values and if you choose to support another party, you have no chance of becoming a safety representative. In, for example, Buildings, where I was active, one became automatically a trade union officer if one became a safety representative. It was sort of connected. It was the same favor. So what Eva Nordmark says is not true. That's not how it works in real life. I don't know what experience you have in Swedish workplaces and what you know about what it looks like there. But I know. I've been working there for 26 years. I know exactly how it works with the safety representatives and their role. Swedish safety representatives are doing a great job. No one has said otherwise. With our proposal, we want more people to be able to become safety representatives, in line with Eva Nordmark's view. So what she's saying is not true. However, one issue that is quite interesting in the debate ahead is a statement by the Minister for Labour himself. The Minister felt that LO's connection with social democracy was an obstacle to deeper cooperation on important issues for the country's workers. I quote that. I wonder: Is this a statement that the Minister still supports? Should that be the case, we are quite in agreement on this issue, and then we are on the right track.
i-426136f3ca7be703-385	Madam President, I would like Then I must inform the interpeller about the state of the Swedish labour market in the case of members of the trade unions. When the interpellier says that 50 percent are excluded from taking on assignments, it's nothing but nonsense-- excuse the word choice. The majority of those who are members of a trade union organisation today are members of a party-politically independent trade union organisation – I think that one should keep an eye on this as a Member of Parliament. When safety representatives are appointed at the workplace, including in trade unions with a party political link, there are proposals from the co-workers. It is the colleagues who make their proposals without taking into account what someone has voted for or what someone has for a party book or other things. I've been on a union assignment for 20 years, so I also know how it works. I myself have been very careful, during the years I have been a trade union leader, to make sure that it is not just about everyone's right to be a safety representative. It is also about the right of all members to be represented and to feel confident that the representatives they have stand up for the equal value of all. It does not matter whether I am a woman or a man, which country I was born in or whether there are any other starting points for this. It is also a very important foundation. It is about safety representatives and other union elected representatives. For many trade unions, it is crucial to ensure that safety representatives and others stand up for the equal value of all people.
i-426136f3ca7be703-389	Madam President, I would like I did not get an answer to my question about what the Minister for Labour thought about LO's connection to social democracy, but I do of course agree with her. It is clear that a representative should stand up for the equal value of all people, but it is often a standard response from the Social Democrats in particular when they do not get any further in the debate. They often throw it out. They want to put it on their opponents: You do not stand up for the equal value of all men. That was also the reason why I had to leave my role as a safety representative. I had been a safety officer for ten years. Over a night, I suddenly did not stand up for the equal value of all people. It's quite remarkable. I put the question back to the Minister for Labour: does the Minister for Labour still think that the link between LO and social democracy is an obstacle to deeper cooperation on important issues for the country's workers? I think it is quite important for the Minister for Labour to answer that question.
i-426136f3ca7be703-391	Madam President, I would like I have to say that it is very difficult to answer seriously the kind of rogue questions about loose quotes that have been related to other situations. I don't really know what Magnus Persson's going after. Unfortunately, I did not receive an answer. I will soon present a proposal at the Riksdag's table, which is about giving regional safety representatives greater access rights, including to workplaces where there are no members. I was myself in Helsingborg and Ängelholm last week and could see, together with Building Regional Safety Officers, how it should work in a workplace where collaboration works and where safety representatives have access. But I also saw a workplace where there were no members, where there was only seconded labour and where the scaffolding did not meet the standards that they would have to keep, and then regional safety representatives cannot step in. We want to enable regional safety representatives to both ensure safe life and health and ensure that companies cannot dump Swedish workers' wages and conditions. I hope that the Swedish Democrats will change their minds on this, because it is regrettable that we have a party in the Swedish Parliament that, when it comes to this, does not fully stand up to create the conditions for a better working environment and in that way also save people's health and life.
