i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-0	Madam President, I would like So last week the European Council met. The meeting began on Thursday afternoon with a brief information on the negotiations with the European Parliament with regard to the Multiannual Financial Framework. There followed a discussion on the EU-UK negotiations, the climate issue and the state of covid-19. On Friday we had a long discussion on the EU's relationship with Africa, and we also adopted short conclusions on the Southern Neighbourhood, Belarus, Turkey and the shooting of flight MH17. Madam President, I would like Under the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF), the President of the European Parliament was, as usual, in place to present Parliament's position. Those colleagues who took the floor clearly indicated that the agreement reached by the European Council in July must provide the framework for further negotiations. The importance of urgent decisions was also stressed. Madam President, I would like There followed a longer discussion on climate objectives. President Michel announced that after the discussion at this meeting, it would return to the issue in December, with the aim of reaching agreement on a new emissions target by 2030. During the discussion that followed, everyone around the table took the floor, and the vast majority supported the target of at least 55% emission reductions. I and another colleague indicated that we really wanted to go further. We were some who referred to the initiative taken by Sweden for the summit, which now has 12 participating countries, with support for the work of the Commission. A small number of Member States are still holding back and do not want to see higher objectives in the field of climate change, so there will be a difficult discussion until the next summit. Madam President, I would like The dinner was devoted to the negotiation with the UK, which is at a critical stage. These are difficult issues to resolve; they are still about fair conditions of competition, including state aid rules, and fisheries and dispute resolution. Finally, as you have noted, there was a rather tight statement, perhaps one should say, from the European Council. However, our Chief Negotiator Michel Barnier was also very clear after the meeting that the EU is, of course, ready to continue and also intensify this negotiating process. It is very important for Sweden, for the EU and for the UK that we reach a goal with the negotiation. Madam President, I would like We then discussed the situation regarding covid-19. It was a serious discussion in which several Heads of Government witnessed an increase in the number of infected people and a greater strain on health care. Many stressed the importance of proper coordination and exchange of information between EU institutions and Member States. I agreed, but also recalled that decisions regarding, for example, testing should be taken at national level. It was also noted that this crisis will be prolonged and that we will therefore return to the issue on a regular basis. Madam President, I would like On Friday, the EU-Africa relationship was discussed, and I underlined the importance of a more cohesive relationship – a partnership based on reciprocity and common interests. Many stressed human rights, migration, democracy, gender equality, the rule of law, environmental and climate sustainability and, not least, investment. A large part of the discussion came to be about the concept. I and a large majority of the others wanted the concept to be used in the conclusion texts, but two Member States could not accept it. The compromise was therefore that we refer to previous texts which refer to the concept of gender equality. Madam President, I would like Finally, we noted four foreign policy issues. First, it was the 25th anniversary of the so-called Barcelona Process with the Southern Neighbourhood, and we will come back to that in December. Then we again condemned the regime's violence against peaceful demonstrators in Belarus, and we also expressed support for Lithuania and Poland, which have had to call home diplomats from Belarus. Turkey's provocative action in the eastern Mediterranean was also condemned. Finally, we called on Russia to cooperate with the investigation into the shooting of flight MH17. We need to know the truth, and the guilty must be held to account. This, Madam President, was the report back from the European Council.
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-11	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the report, Prime Minister. I'm going to pay some attention to the climate issue. For the Moderates, it is important for the EU to show leadership on the climate issue and to set an example for other countries. An important part is to get the European Climate Act in place and to raise the EU's climate ambitions so that the EU becomes climate neutral by 2050 – and so that the 2030 target is also significantly raised. The Minister of State asked last week for Parliament's support for the government's line of reducing emissions in the EU by at least 55% by 2030. The Prime Minister then justified the government's line that it was the only realistic thing if it was possible to reach an agreement with the EU's 26 other Member States – countries that in many cases did not get as far in transition as Sweden. A few hours after the meeting of the EU Board, Isabella Lövin asked for a mandate to negotiate a 60% reduction, with a view to 65%. There were a few of us who got a little confused about the government line here. However, we can now see that the agreement reached at the European Council reached at least 55%. Then I wonder – to be a little overly clear – whether the Prime Minister is behind the Council conclusions to reduce emissions by at least 55%. Is it still the Prime Minister's view that it is at least 55% that is the realistic thing to agree between the Member States?
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-15	Madam President, I would like First of all, we have no agreement on at least 55% yet, but we will come back to that in December. I think that the discussions at the European Council show that there is a large majority to go at least 55%. However, we still have a couple of three Member States that do not want to go to 55, but from the wording of the conclusion I believe that there is still a pretty good direction. Among other things, it says about achieving the objective of a climate-neutral Europe by 2050, and it refers to the Commission's proposal of at least 55%. In fact, it is mentioned, as well as that it should cover all Member States, but at the same time be based on solidarity and other principles. So it breathes that it is in this direction that we should go, but I do not want to take anything forward in any way. Because some Member States certainly do not want this, so we do not have an agreement. Yeah, I think it's at least 55 who's the realistic one if you're going to move on.
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-19	Madam President, I would like At that time, I understood what the Prime Minister said last time correctly, that is, the Prime Minister's assessment is that the realistic figure is at least 55%. Then one can be somewhat confused that other parts of the government include other figures in this context, namely 60 or 65 %. I interpret the Prime Minister as saying that it is likely and reasonable to expect a deal of at least 55%. Is the government's approach to the December meeting, when the decision is to be made, to support at least 55 per cent as a 2030 target, or is it any other figure that the government imagines will be recorded then?
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-21	Madam President, I would like That's at least 55%. At least 55 can also be more than 55, but this is to get a collection around a goal that everyone can set up on. That is also how it is expressed. There is no agreement, but that is how it is expressed. What is related to the Commission's target is at least 55%. That's also why I said at the meeting that I would have liked to have seen a higher number. If the process can go further than 55, it is open, and I think we should be open in order to have even higher ambitions. But what is realistic to believe in arriving by December is at least 55 percent.
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-22	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. When it comes to climate policy and the government's line, we have seen that there are three different percentage figures that the government is behind: 55, 60 and 65. But the Prime Minister obviously wants to talk about 55%. While we are talking about these percentages, this also costs money. The European Commission has counted the 50-55 target and reached a cost of 0.39% of gross domestic product. This represents EUR 1 300 billion. The Government is making proposals to further raise the ambition. How much money does the government think it would cost if the target was 60% and 65%, respectively?
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-26	Madam President, I would like Let me repeat again: at least 55% can be more than 55%. At least we can agree on that. You can have at least 55 and you can stand for it to be 60. If we get at least 55 percent written, we can also work towards a higher goal after that; it can be 60 or 65. I think that we should keep as high an ambition as possible, because we are in a hurry to see what we are seeing when it comes to climate change. When it comes to money, different calculations can be made. I am also making another calculation, namely that by being the first in the transition, one will have a great competitive advantage. I have referred on numerous occasions to steel production without coal. I think this is a goal. Once it has reached its goal, a whole world will be asking for steel production without coal, and then we are the first in the trail. If we can develop electric airplanes the same applies there, as well as for the battery production that will start in Sweden. I think that we are now at a tipping point where things are moving in the right direction and where more and more people are seeing the possibility of making a transition that also means new jobs and which includes the new technology and welfare. It's in the climate transition; that's how we'll see it. Then there will be a change, and that is why the conclusions say that analyses should be carried out for each Member State. There are different challenges; there is no doubt about it. For example, those who are totally dependent on coal for their energy supply have a different commitment than Sweden, which does not have coal. Member States will analyse what needs to be done, and we have said that we should be involved in the transition with solidarity.
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-31	Madam President, I would like I note that the government is moving forward with the hope of 60% or 65%, or perhaps even greater ambitions, without having any idea of the costs. Instead, you have hopes. You have faith. It is simply hoped that this will benefit Swedish and European competitiveness, and I hope so too. At the same time, the Commission itself deals with risks of carbon leakage, or investment leakage, which is more often referred to today. Instead of investing in Europe, they take place in other markets where the requirements are less stringent. That means jobs are moving to other continents. How does the Prime Minister see us fighting this? Does the Prime Minister have any fear or concern that this may result in emissions not being reduced globally?
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-34	Madam President, I would like It would be naive to ignore the fact that there is a certain risk of so-called leakage. But it is also the case that the whole world is changing. The whole world is covered by the Paris Agreement, except for those countries that have not joined it or intend to withdraw from it. It makes everyone go in the same direction. It is not that the conversion made in Swedish steel production prevents investments here in Sweden – quite the opposite, I would say. It is important to ensure that, from the point of view of politics, we provide the right conditions for investment to come here. It is also important, not least, to provide the right conditions for people to change and be part of this transition. It can be about education or other things. Any leakage is the reason why a cost is now being discussed for countries that wish to export to the EU but do not have the same climate requirements. That's how you balance this, too.
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-37	Madam President, I would like Now that the spread of infection has begun to increase again within Europe and a number of Member States are introducing internal closures and strong quarantine rules, we would like to stress the importance of keeping borders between Member States open as far as possible. In particular, it is important for Europe's economic recovery that the internal market and trade function as it does in more normal times. It is also necessary for the transport of medicinal products and protective equipment to maintain free movement. In a few months we will hopefully begin to transport vaccines against covid-19 across borders. Vaccines can often be sensitive to fluctuations in temperature, and safe handling comes with great demands for unhindered transport. Some vaccines have to be kept as much as 80 degrees below zero, so it is a little worrying to think about what might happen if trucks get stuck at closed borders. I think it is crucial that the EU learns from the start of the pandemic and does its utmost to ensure that free movement is not restricted. The cross-road contingency plan for freight transport during pandemics, which was discussed by EU transport ministers at the end of September, attached great importance to safeguarding national competence in the field of infectious diseases. This is, of course, an important principle to protect also in relation to the protection of infection, but from the point of view of the protection of infection, it is at least as important that the limits remain open to the transport of medicinal products and, not least, vaccines. That is why my question is: how does the Prime Minister view the risks of a repetition of the spring, and how does the government intend to operate within the EU in order for internal borders to remain open?
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-42	Madam President, I would like Sofia Nilsson points to a very important subject. It turned out last spring that it did not work as intended, and I would say that this helped to exacerbate the situation. Goods which Sweden would have sent or had to have been prevented because freedom of movement was suddenly restricted by some Member States. We have pointed out both bilaterally and in other contexts that it cannot work that way, because then the internal market will be damaged. It is, among other things, against this background that there is now a text in the conclusions on the importance of overall coordination. It is important that we can see about the same situation and have the same factors and the same metric when it comes to what is to be done. If you are going to have some kind of restriction on freedom of movement, what will it be based on? That's where we have to have the same picture. One Member State cannot have a picture and another Member State has a completely different picture; then there will be chaos again. Coordination is important, but ultimately it is the national decision to decide. Really getting the vaccine distributed will be at least as important, because once it comes, the distribution must take place as soon as possible so that people can be protected against this disease. Then not least these rules should be in place. It is Treaty bound what is national competence and EU common competence. Most of this is national competence. However, it is important that we get much better coordination of the management of the crisis and that we avoid limited mobility that harms both health care and production and, not least, the distribution of vaccines.
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-46	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. Once a workable vaccine is in place and available on the market, it is important that the distribution of this between the EU Member States works well. There, Sweden is an important part and really a part of this collaboration, which feels safe in a way. Again, I'm just thinking about the transport and how we're actually going to secure it. The example from last spring, when protective clothing and visor intended for Sweden got stuck in France, is really telling. I therefore ask once again how the government intends to work to ensure that a sufficient amount of vaccine comes to Sweden and that it can actually be transported to Sweden from other Member States.
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-49	Madam President, I would like It should be distributed according to a key that applies equally to all. That is why we already pointed out last spring that we cannot have the order that some countries unilaterally close borders and thereby short-circuit the chain of production that is important in many other respects. As I said, this is no less important when it comes to vaccines. I think that there is a greater consensus that what happened last spring was a problem for the internal market and something that we should avoid. That is why the European Council is now pressing for coordination between the EU institutions and Member States, but also coordination between Member States, so that the distribution of vaccines actually works. Then there is another perspective on the vaccine. It is the global distribution, in which I believe the European Union should get involved to ensure that even poorer countries that are a bit away also get their share of the vaccine.
i-FbVu5S7eoznykVxtC7i7Xi	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report from the European Council. Prior to the summit, the Prime Minister was given a mandate to claim 55% emission reduction by 2030. Later that same day, the Deputy Prime Minister went out and said that Sweden's position was 60 percent with a view to 65 percent emission reduction. These positions are not compatible, because if the government's position is 60%, the Prime Minister has not followed the government's position. Therefore, I simply do not know what position Sweden has on this absolutely crucial future issue. 55% is too little if we're going to get through the climate. Full guarding can be done on the ironing tip with 1, X, 2. Then you have to pay a little extra, and it's easier to get more right. But in the European Council it does not work with full guarding. If Sweden at home says that we settle for 55% and then go down and negotiate for 60%, the Swedish position is weakened. That is why it is important to have a clear position, that we do not go below 60%, that that is our goal. Otherwise, we must go back to the European Council and ask for a new mandate. I believe that there is still a great deal of uncertainty about what is actually the government's position. In this case, I'm rooting for Isabella Lövin and the higher goal. I wonder: when the Prime Minister goes to the European Council in December, when this is to be decided, is Sweden's position at least 55% or is it at least 60% with a view to 65%?
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-55	Madam President, I would like With all due respect to Jonas Sjöstedt, I think I have more experience of the European Council. We were given a mandate of at least 55%. For me, 55% and up are at least 55%. That is the mandate we have. That is what the Commission has proposed, and that is what the conclusions relate to. Then it is no wonder if Sweden has a higher ambition. But we also know – that was also the explanation to the EU Council last week – that at least 55% is enough tough to get through. Then we have to decide if we want to go on a line that is realistic, but which is probably so tough, and move forward the positions or whether we should have an even tougher attitude and say: We fought for this that we know was even harder. Of course we want a higher ambition, but we also know that there are countries that do not even want 55%. The conclusions mention and refer it to the fact that the objective should include all states and that it should be carried out with analyses and whatever it may be, and we will go to decisions in December. If there is at least 55% in the conclusions, that is also what will be the proposal in December. There will be no other proposal than at least 55%. If we get to the point where the target is at least 55% reduction in emissions, then we have the opportunity to fight for a higher target. At least 55% is right to fight for now. That is what we have been given a mandate for, that is what the conclusions say, and that is what I hope will be the decision in December as well.
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-59	Madam President, I would like It is quite correct that I have zero experience of the European Council. However, I have 11 years of experience in negotiating climate issues in the European Parliament and participating in the UN's major climate conferences. And I know that if you come up with three different objectives you seem unclear, so I think that the government here has to make up its mind, quite simply. If I understand the Prime Minister correctly, the Prime Minister does not intend to take the Deputy Prime Minister's bid of at least 60% with a view to 65%, but is satisfied with 55%. I would urge the Prime Minister to use the majority in Parliament to increase Sweden's ambitions. I know it's hard to get that through the hearing. I have every respect that you may not always get what you want. But given what the climate requires, Sweden would actually approach what the climate requires, and I think that is the most realistic position of all.
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-62	Madam President, I would like There is a difference between the European Parliament and the European Council. The European Council will all agree. If a person says no, it won't happen. If a person at the table says that we should not have more than 40%, then it is 40%. Then you'll have to choose which path to take, if you're going to try to go at 55%, which right now is the most realistic. But it is not yet ready. We can still have a higher objective and express it. But at some point you also have to sit down as a left-wing party and think that it might be better to be realistic and try to do something than just live by your own dreams. After all, we have had to accept and take to the European Council a reduction of at least 55%. Then we can help to increase ambition.
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-66	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. I intend to start with the EU-UK relationship and the negotiations, which are very slow. But the Prime Minister has stated in the media that he believes there is a small opening in order to avoid a harsh Brexit. What are the Prime Minister's positive signals about that? It is very clear in the conclusions that you should prepare for a hard Brexit. Then to an issue that many have raised here, and these are the climate targets. No decision was taken at the meeting on emission reduction figures. The Prime Minister says 55% and the Environment Minister says 65%. I agree it's like a number bingo. How should other countries know what Sweden is doing? Do they know that Sweden can fall back to 55%, because as the Prime Minister has said, why should they agree to 60 and 65 percent? How does the Prime Minister assess the outcome of the December meeting, where decisions are to be made? Can you agree on your ambitions? I have mentioned in the past that Commissioner Timmermans has said that there is research on how to cope with 55%. What does the research say is realistic, says the Prime Minister? Is that 55, 60 or 65 percent? Or is it 70, 75, 80 or 85 percent? How are we supposed to know what the research says we can do? This is important for it to be not just a numerical game but realistic. Prior to the summit, the Prime Minister said that he wanted to work for this to be taken at both collective and national level. However, the Council conclusions refer only to the collective level. How does the Prime Minister view it?
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-72	Madam President, I would like Sweden has therefore taken the initiative in writing to support the Commission's proposal of at least 55%. There is an old saying: If the message has not gone home, it is the pastor's fault. Sweden has driven at least 55%, and twelve countries are in on it. In the discussion of the European Council, it is clear that there is a large majority but not unanimity, and as long as that is the case, we intend to continue to operate at least 55%. It's important. Sweden has taken the initiative to do this, and there is no doubt about what Sweden is running. And when we say at least 55%, there is the possibility of going higher anyway. So there is no contradiction. At least 55 is 55 and above. That's my interpretation of at least 55 – or that's how we've written it, so that's what's going on. As far as research is concerned, it is clear what we want. In order to achieve a climate-neutral Europe by 2050, we want to go tough on the 2030 target, otherwise we do not think we can achieve it. Then research means that it goes too far, so that's the overall goal. I think Désirée Pethrus' introduction was good: a small opening, where is it right now? If you listened yesterday, you didn't see much of it. However, we have expressed in the conclusions that we want to negotiate further, and that is what Mr Michel has to do. It may have sounded a little bleak from 10 Downing Street, but we hope. The EU's aim is to achieve this.
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-77	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for the answer, but it made no sense to me. If some countries that want to keep it at 40% see the Prime Minister saying 55%, I do not think they will go beyond that level. As previous speakers have said, double-handed is not a good strategy. I did not get an answer to the question of national versus collective level in relation to climate targets. With regard to relations between the EU and Africa and the wording on peace, security and so on, it says that we should support human rights. The word democracy, however, is not included. Why? This is very often the case in international contexts. I guess that's because many countries don't want it to be written in for democracy. That is very regrettable, and I would like the Prime Minister here today to say: when human rights are on the agenda, I will push for democracy to be included as well.
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-80	Madam President, I would like First to what I forgot to answer. It is described that all Member States will participate in this effort. It goes on, and that is the balance: taking into account national circumstances and considerations of fairness and solidarity. We do not share the view that this should only apply at collective level. To ensure that it actually does, everyone has to fulfill it. However, countries clearly have very different conditions, such as coal-dependent Poland. They have a different commitment and chord than Sweden has. As far as Africa is concerned, it is clear that democracy is important. I do not have time to read it through now, but without doubt democracy is a fundamental pillar of cooperation.
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-83	Madam President, I would like I'm also going to contribute to the number bingons. The Prime Minister says in his speech that Sweden wants a reduction of at least 55 percent. I'm glad. The Prime Minister also says that we would like to see a higher ambition, 60% with a view to 65. Personally, I would have liked to have seen 110 percent. We need negative emissions in the reasonably near future to overcome climate change. I am therefore pleased that the Prime Minister is opening up further increases in ambition. There seems to be some question mark in this House about what is Sweden's position. As I understand it, it is quite clear. We want a reduction of 60 to 65%, but are prepared to back down to 55% in a negotiating position. That is a clear position for me. It is no wonder that you are prepared to back down, but at the same time you can tell other countries that you have a high level of ambition. This may indeed cause other countries to dare to express their perhaps higher ambitions in a way that one would not do if one were to relate to exactly what one here and now can get through. It is, of course, about what you say at the negotiating table, what official papers you hand in and so on. But a negotiating situation is also about what the various delegations say to each other outside the negotiating room and what the Prime Minister says to his colleagues at the coffee machine and in other situations. Does the Prime Minister then express the ambition of a higher target than 55% if possible?
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-86	Madam President, I would like It is true, as Mr Forssell points out, that other countries also say something like us, such as Denmark. In Brussels, there is no doubt about what we are saying. But here, apparently, I'm not able to explain, and I'm going to have to put that on. So this is at least 55%. For a European Council meeting, there is a proposal for conclusions, which the EU Board also receives. We have pushed for at least 55%, and now it says so. But we know it will be tough, because two three Member States will not want this. Then we think it is most important to give this support. Should we now say that there is something else we want support for, the whole process will be made more difficult. Nevertheless, we can express our view that it should be higher. But in order to get somewhere and be able to deliver something, which is still a substantial change, this is the case. I think it is possible to keep both perspectives in mind.
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-91	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Another point raised in the discussion is that reductions of 55, 60, 65 or 110 per cent involve costs. This requires investment in negative emissions, for example, which the Liberals have pushed for in the January round. The great cost of climate change, however, is not the one that comes out of having to capture carbon dioxide or from having to change the economy. The great cost arises, of course, if we do not solve the climate crisis and suffer in full the enormous horrors and dangers of climate disasters throughout our continent and our entire world. How do the Prime Minister and the Government view this balance? Can we afford not to raise climate ambitions? Me and the Liberals don't think so. The cost of not raising ambitions is higher than the cost of changing to tough ambitions.
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-95	Madam President, I would like Maybe I should have used that expression myself at the beginning, because that's exactly how we see it. It's an alternative cost. That's where I mean we are. I think we are at a tipping point where more and more people now see that it would be disastrous not to do the right thing now. Of course, investments in energy systems and new technologies of all kinds are needed. It takes training. There is a need for a change– there is no doubt about it. It is also necessary to provide opportunities for people to do the right thing. In Sweden, we have a bonus – the Malus system, and we provide support for the expansion of solar cells. These are investments, and when we make investments, as I said earlier, new technologies and new opportunities will also come. They are the ones who will lead us forward and make us not only do justice to children and grandchildren and, for that matter, ourselves but also do something smart. This is where the welfare of the future lies. That is quite the perspective.
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-98	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for a clear report. Initially, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the good answers to my questions in the EU Council last week, when we had an open meeting. At that time, what we do in Swedish industry was described. The Prime Minister mentioned steel without coal, supporting and searching by many like-minded people to get an offensive stance in climate work, green climate funds, development aid and Sweden's role as a major power in climate change work. Climate work is ultimately about life and health. At the same time, we often get stuck in percentages and carbon dioxide reductions. In turn, I thought I'd raise my eyes to something here and talk about crowns and crowns. An active climate policy is also a policy for future jobs, growth and export success. A large number of our companies have grasped this issue of climate change, especially in engineering Sweden. At the same time, I mean that weak and low climate targets do damage to our successful Swedish companies, risk export opportunities and threaten jobs, competitive advantages and growth. More jobs bring more growth, and more jobs and more growth bring more prosperity for all of us. With regard to all the Prime Minister's meetings and talks with European counterparts in general and at the European Council last week, in particular: to what extent is the emphasis precisely on these issues – competitive advantages, growth and green jobs? And to what extent do other countries share Sweden's high climate ambitions?
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-103	Madam President, I would like I start with the job of the future, because that's how we see it: H is, among other things, the job of the future, besides doing the right thing for the climate and the environment. Now we have 25 handshake, I think, with various sectors of business that want to play their part in drawing the way forward. There are business models based on the take. If you go back ten years, or maybe just five, you can see that it was a completely different attitude. This is where the business is. It is an incredible driving force in this. What, then, is the main focus of the European Union and, above all, of the European Council? Yeah, I'd say most people think that way. Then there's a scale there too. There are those who are more worried because they have a greater challenge. I have said it several times, and I have said it to them directly and in other contexts: I have respect for this. With a large carbon dependence on energy, it is clear that you have a tougher commitment to get out of it. That is why we need to help each other and show that we can support each other in the transition. But we have to decide in which direction to go, because just as Joar Forssell from the Liberals said here before, the alternative is much worse. We have an emphasis on the fact that there is a positive development ahead of us, but between that and those who are most worried there is a whole scale. It is now important to continue, not least in terms of making budgetary work work work work right and to make the transition or restart work, with the big package, become green as well. That is how it is stated – that it must become green. Then we will have more and more investments that lead the right way, and more and more will be sure that this is the right way to go.
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-107	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your good answer. Sweden is a relatively small, open and export-dependent country in one corner of Europe. We are an engineering country and want to be a leading country even on the climate change front. It is bubbling in climate change work out there, from ABB to Volvo – from A to V. As an example, Ny Teknik recently launched its 33-list of new successful companies, and there were several good examples of everything from solar cells to heat exchangers and electric motor cycles. And 35 kilometers from here we have Södertälje and Scania, who recently launched their fully electrified urban truck for the transport of the future.
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-109	Madam President, I would like That is the positive allocation we must have. We must not only have it, but we must have it because it is important from a climate and environmental point of view. That is also what leads us forward. That is why, in the field of transport, energy and heating, and in industry and agriculture, we should move towards climate neutrality. Sweden has tougher targets than the EU, but that is the overall goal. Then we ensure that interim targets are set in time for all sectors. With the latest efforts that will be made, we see that we now have a good chance of achieving the target in the transport sector, namely a 70% reduction. The more people who see this, the more people believe that it is not only possible but also really good.
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-111	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your statement. Europe must be the leader in the global transition to climate-smart societies and the implementation of the Paris Agreement. In this leadership role is to push for other countries to be able to raise their level of ambition. Climate change will stimulate sustainable economic and social development, contribute to healthier living and biodiversity, generate jobs, improve EU energy security and more. It is extremely good that the government is fully united in its ambition to raise the climate target and that emissions should be reduced by at least 60 per cent, with a view to − 65. The Commission's proposal of at least 55% could become a floor. It will be an important and forward-looking innovation in climate policy that shows that direction. Isabella Lövin applied for a mandate from the Environment and Agriculture Committee and the EU Board for negotiations in the Environment Council on EU climate law. Perhaps this was what caused many Members to be a little confused. Not everyone in the Environment Council has to agree, but there is a majority making decisions. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: How do you view Sweden's opportunity to interact with like-minded countries for higher climate targets in the EU? And how will success be achieved at the December meeting?
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-116	Madam President, I would like We were eleven when we got to the meeting, and then a twelfth came up and said, "Why didn't we get in?" I said everyone could be in and that it was open and just get on. And then we became twelve. Of course, it could be thirteen, fourteen or fifteen, too. So I see great opportunities. It is already a large group, and now we are working systematically together to see if we can get more people coming forward with the same message by December. I believe that we have the opportunity to do this in one form or another – that we are in on this. I see, as I said, that the vast majority want to support this objective. Then, of course, the question is how we deal with those who do not see this now, or who may not see it possible for various reasons. This is an issue that is important enough precisely because there must be unanimity. There we point out, as we have done in the past, the opportunities that we have in the budget and in other ways to support the transition that is necessary for everyone and which means longer steps for some countries. In particular, national analyses need to be deepened so that the EU, and not least the Commission and others, can help these countries in that this is what will be required. Then you clarify this picture, and then you also know what the chord is and what support may be needed. I think that this discussion is now important enough for us to be able to go to a rather rapid decision in December.
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-120	Madam President, I would like In view of the fair climate change situation, we believe that the Green Party is extremely important in order to achieve a broader commitment to a stronger climate target in the EU. The transition to a climate-neutral and sustainable Europe must be accelerated. All sectors need to be involved. And this needs to be implemented in a socio-economically efficient and inclusive way. Of course, long-term sustainability of public finances must also be achieved. How does the Prime Minister view the fact that a gender perspective and a more inclusive perspective are also needed in the climate transition?
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-123	Madam President, I would like Gender equality is a fundamental pillar in all policy areas. This review and analysis should therefore, of course, also be carried out. I think the great strength lies in inclusiveness. It is important to get as many people as possible to feel included and on the wagon. Therefore, what we are now doing in Sweden with the various handshake with the business community is a strength, which Svante Axelsson has worked very successfully with. Then it becomes an ownership. This is also why the support for solar cells, charging poles and so on is so good and makes people feel that they are involved. People want to do the right thing, and they also have the opportunity and the advice to do the right thing. The more inclusive and the more strength we get in the transition, the faster it will be.
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-125	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his report. The EU-UK Brexit negotiations are now entering a critical phase, to say the least. There is really no time left to play, as there must be an agreement by 31 December at the latest. The fact that it will be an agreement that will enable trade to be as smooth as possible across borders is in the interests of both the EU and the UK. The enormous economic damaging effects of the Coronandemin should have reasonably led to greater interest on both sides in compromise. An uncontracted situation would have devastating consequences for many companies that are already struggling to stay afloat. It is indeed necessary for both parties to do their best to reach a compromise. Something else would be a betrayal of all companies and employees who are at risk of being severely affected. The Prime Minister has often praised the overall unity of the negotiations in the EU-27 and pointed out that it is a strength that we are united in these negotiations. It has also been a guiding principle for the European Union to have a negotiating position that is primarily committed to the common interests of the Member States. Then I find it worrying that the issue of fishing has become the issue that risks destroying the chances of reaching an agreement. Fishing by a few EU countries today in British waters is of relatively limited economic importance. Of course, the EU should pursue the interests of all Member States. But it would not be reasonable for the agreement to be overturned because of fishing. The Prime Minister said earlier here in his re-report that it is a tight statement in the conclusions. So I wonder what that means. I also wonder what the Prime Minister is doing to try to dissolve the knots that appear to exist and stand in the way of an agreement with the United Kingdom.
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-130	Madam President, I would like I shall begin with what was said at the end of the speech about loosening knots. Sweden is naturally active all the time. But then the negotiations must be conducted through Michel Barnier and his team. However, we have had long-standing bilateral contacts with the UK and with others to see what can be done. What I meant was not least after the reactions from 10 Downing Street and that it was judged that the conclusions were too strict. You can always discuss this. But there is no Kingdom about what we want: We are clearly expressing this, but also that the United Kingdom must also change its position here. Fishing is the area where I know nothing has happened and where it is still standing still. It is true that these are not the biggest sectors, but they are probably so important. You can have respect for that, even for Swedish people, but not least for those countries where the entire fisheries sector depends on access to British waters. Some countries do. If it disappears, the entire fisheries sector disappears. That is why this issue is so important and hot. Perhaps that is the question that Britain is closest to, and you want to solve the others first. We all need to think together about how to tackle fishing, but also the dispute resolution and level playing field, so that it becomes an agreement. At the moment it does not look good; it is just to be noted. But we must continue to make this possible.
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-135	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I agree that we have great respect for all three parts that are highlighted – equal opportunities, governance and fishing. But fishing is not of equal interest to everyone in the EU-27. That was my point. We have agreed in Sweden on Sweden's position, and we have consistently been loyal to the EU's negotiating line. This has probably meant that Sweden too has been allowed to restrain itself in certain respects that we think are important in these negotiations. Now the French President, Emmanuel Macron, has openly promised that he will not agree to any agreement if that would mean any changes to the access of French fishing vessels to British waters. Then I think, like the Prime Minister, that it does not look good that there is no agreement. What are the consequences? Is it reasonable that fishing could risk overturning an agreement?
i-ab5eb9fcc37eb535-140	Madam President, I would like We have said here: one for all, all for one. All countries have this cohesion, and it has been absolutely crucial so far. Let's see if it carries right into the finish line. But if we hadn't had it, I think it had cracked a long time ago. That's why I think it's important that we stick together. This also applies to the issue of fishing. That's also how we say it, that we have to stick together. Otherwise, someone can start attacking one question and someone else on another question. Then there will suddenly be a bilateral negotiation, and that would be unfortunate. We want to stick together, and we're gonna stick together. Then you can ask how important it is. You have to respect people's livelihoods. And if some countries are totally dependent on this fishing and there is nothing else, then it is more serious for these countries. However, I believe that if there is a will, there is an opportunity to resolve this issue as well. Right now, I think you have to see the three parts together.
