i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-3	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say a big thank you to everyone who is struggling in health care and care all over Sweden. Many thanks for your efforts! Thanks also to all of you who every day go to work and make sure our country works! Thank you to all of you who take responsibility for reducing the spread of infection! It is gratifying to see all the initiatives taken in many different locations around our amazing country. They donate food and travel to our heroes in care and care. Others go shopping for our elderly and those at risk. We Moderates therefore put forward in Parliament a proposal to abolish preferential taxation on food and travel given to our heroes in this crisis. They must be estimated and not taxed in favour. Now a united parliament has also made that decision. We Moderates have also proposed an additional Corona supplement of 5 000 SEK each month for the staff who work daily in health care and care with the most vulnerable in the crisis. It is good that we describe in words how grateful we are for their efforts, but we also need to show it in action and money in the wage envelope. Then we see their efforts seriously. We have in Sweden in some places full outdoor cafés – life is going on just as it did before the crisis. In other parts of our society, people are fighting for their lives in our hospitals with amazing staff who take care of them in the best way possible. There are two very different realities that exist at the same time. The crisis caused by covid-19 is not over. Together we will get through it. But we need to help each other, hold on, hold on and keep our distance for a while longer — until we get through it. Today, Parliament is dealing with the eighth supplementary amending budget this spring – so far, it is best to add, for there are more. The first amending budget was taken by Moderates before the crisis. We wanted to strengthen health care, because we saw shortcomings in the welfare that we all care about. We saw shortcomings in health care and school, and we needed to strengthen resources. We gathered an opposition in this Parliament and drove through together more resources for welfare, which received much-needed additions. Since then covid-19 has changed the world in a terrible way. Millions of people have fallen ill. Hundreds of thousands of people have died. We are in the midst of a pandemic at a historic stage, and we do not know how long it will last or exactly how it will go. The world economy is under heavy pressure. Millions and millions of people have lost their jobs and livelihoods in various places around the world. Borders have been closed between countries in a way that I think few of us could have foreseen before this crisis struck. All the problems Sweden had before the crisis, Sweden will also have after the crisis, not least the serious crime. That and many other things will remain for us to grasp. Medical care was reassigned to handle covid-19. Many people have also likely avoided contact with health care despite their need for it. This means that we are currently building up a health debt that can be managed when we are through the difficult part of the crisis. Then we have a lot of staff who have worked very hard, a strained economy and a lot of people who will have to take part in the well-being that was quite strained even before the crisis. Today, the government is meeting us moderates when it comes to more resources for health care. That's good. It is good for Sweden and for the people who live in our country. We Moderates will continue to make proposals to save Swedish jobs and Swedish companies. We welcome the acceptance of the proposals by the government and the cooperation parties. It's good for Sweden. Sweden entered the Corona crisis with unemployment among the highest in the EU. Both the IMF and the European Commission also forecast that Sweden will be one of the countries in the EU where unemployment is increasing most during this crisis. For example, should Sweden's unemployment develop in the same way as in Germany, Finland and Denmark, 100 000 people in our country would not have to lose their jobs. In order to push back unemployment and not end up there, we need to do more. We must do more to keep the Swedish economy going. We Moderates are today putting forward proposals for new investments in infrastructure. That's right for two reasons. Investment in infrastructure is a documented effective way of supporting the economy in times of decline. In addition, maintenance of roads and railways is right in substance. There is a lack of maintenance throughout Sweden. During the crisis, there is also less pressure on transport systems. This means that maintenance interferes less and can be done significantly more effectively than when the transport systems are fully used. We also want to secure the extension of the metro in Stockholm, primarily financed by extending the payment plan with the congestion tax. We Moderates also want to invest SEK 100 million in regional airports. It is important to ensure fast transport throughout Sweden for everything from ambulance flights to other necessary transports. Mr President, I would like to Throughout this crisis, we Moderates have clearly pushed for more efforts to save Swedish jobs and Swedish companies, but also to reduce the spread of infection, not least through more testing. At the same time, all the various rescue packages cost a great deal of money, and Swedish national debt is now increasing rapidly. It will take many years to restore the deficits that we are now building. Even after the crisis, we must ensure good resources for health care, care, school, police and a lot more. Increased taxes are completely the wrong way to go – this will seriously hamper the Swedish economy's recovery after the crisis. It has already begun to talk about increased taxes as a way of paying back. It will not work if you want Sweden to have growth. This means that, after this crisis, we must become much better at giving priority to things in the state budget, even things that we have previously felt were important. When the money is not enough for everything, we must be able to say what is going to stand back so that we do not have to cut back on what we think is most important: health care, care, school and the police. We must ensure that we tackle the problems that existed before the crisis and will also remain after the crisis. We Moderates have already identified some such areas. Not least, Swedish aid will have to stand back in order to make the other necessary investments in Swedish welfare. With this, Mr President, I am in favour of the Moderate reservation.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-21	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating another supplementary amending budget in connection with the ravaging of the Corona epidemic. And it's a lot of money. This week alone, it is almost SEK 24 billion. The Swedish Democrats agree with the Government on several of the proposed measures. But it is borrowed money that we use, and that is why we politicians have an extra responsibility to make careful consideration of how the money should best be spent. The government went out last spring and urged anyone who felt the least sick to stay at home. To get people to actually stay home, the government promised to abolish the withdrawal. As we all know, it was fake news. In practice, employees have not at all been allowed to abolish withdrawals. Instead, the Government provides a pensioner's allowance that has been flattened to SEK 700 before tax, which means that most employees receive significantly lower compensation during the withdrawal period than is equivalent to their regular sick pay. It is therefore positive that the government will increase the compensation to SEK 804. On the other hand, it is the position of the Swedish democrats that measures should be taken urgently to abolish the withdrawal of the carer's allowance in full so that sick pay is paid from the first day of illness during the period of the crisis. At the same time, the employer must be fully compensated for this cost. These months have clearly shown that perhaps the most important measure to reduce the spread of infection is that those who have symptoms actually stay at home. By allowing the individual to bear part of the cost of the action being carried out, the risk of more people going to work is increased despite symptoms. The Swedish Democrats believe that the withdrawal should be removed as soon as possible. Mr President, I would like to The amending budget increases the appropriation for the non-profit sector by SEK 100 million for 2020. The aim of the initiative is to strengthen civil society and enable organisations to scale up their activities during the crisis. The bet is divided into two parts. SEK 50 million is allocated for social and humanitarian operations where there is a special need. These may include, for example, interventions for people in homelessness, people staying here illegally, and other people in socially vulnerable situations. SEK 50 million is set aside to counteract loneliness in the elderly during the virus outbreak. It can be about outreach on the phone to counteract isolation, help with digital meetings or help with food purchases and other practical things. The Swedish Democrats support SEK 50 million to counteract the loneliness of the elderly, but the other SEK 50 million for efforts towards illegal immigrants, as it is fundamentally wrong to subsidise illegal living in the country and thus increase the incentives to stay for those who are not entitled to stay here. Moreover, it is unclear how much of this 50 million dollars would actually go to other groups of homeless and socially vulnerable. We wish the Government to clarify the distribution of support and to return with this to the Riksdag. Mr President, I would like to Overall, the government has taken a number of rather wise measures in these times of crisis, although we believe that it has been, and is, extremely slow in some cases. Direct aid to companies affected by a large turnover step is still not in place, which is difficult to interpret in any other way than as a direct result of the government's unwillingness to support the private business sector – the same business that creates jobs and accounts for huge tax revenues. The conversion support should have been in place. No one can answer how long the epidemic will ravage and continue to affect our lives. If the ambition is for sovereign debt to return to precorona levels, a number of tough priorities will have to be made in the future. Tax increases have a negative impact on growth, so there is no question of that. Instead, we will have to look at expenditure reductions. It will be the realistic tool. At this point in time, increasing a specifically targeted grant to the media industry by half a billion SEK seems very strange. Most industries, perhaps excluding the food trade and the pharmaceutical industry, are going through incredibly tough times. Why the media industry, but not other industries, should be given special support in the form of an increase in funding does not seem to be fully thought out. Even before the Corona, the newspaper industry showed that it is not viable, and a whole new approach is needed to create viable newspapers. The media industry has the same opportunities as other companies and the same conditions for short-term lay-offs. It has lower employers' contributions and a very low VAT rate. It will also – eventually in any case – have the opportunity to apply for conversion aid if you have had a large percentage of turnover. The Swedish Democrats believe that support for covering the so-called white spots when it comes to newspaper editorials in rural and sparsely populated areas is justifiable. From a principled point of view, it is good that temporary media support is broadened and reaches more news media. However, we believe that the general increase in appropriations is too generous. We see a great need to give priority to other vulnerable sectors in the field of culture that are more difficult to change during the Corona crisis, such as the country's museums and cultural historical destinations. Mr President, I would like to Last week the head of Gotland County Museum went out and warned that Gotland County Museum is threatened with bankruptcy. The Swedish Democrats would rather see that we prioritise extraordinary support for our World Heritage Site than that we maintain an out-of-date newspaper industry. Finally, I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-39	Mr President, I would like to Another debate and one day marked by the coronapendem here in the Swedish parliament and in our elongated country. I think many of us are looking forward to the summer. It won't be as usual, but we're still looking forward to it. Nevertheless, we must remain focused on the crisis and on taking the right measures at any given time. Not least, we must see the situation in which health and care workers find themselves, where they cannot look forward to the summer with the same confidence. They still don't know in many cases if they get any leave. This is where the government has to do more. Here municipalities and regions must do their bit, but the government must take further steps to ensure that staff can get the relief they need both in summer and over time. Major and important reforms are needed in the future. We also need to ensure that the testing starts seriously and that the problems that exist with 21 regions' responsibilities and with the responsibility of the government are corrected. That is an important thing, Mr President, for us to be able to face a continuing pandemic. Mr President, I would like to Let me also say something here today about civil society. Civil society and Association Sweden are there. All non-profit organisations, churches, communities, sports clubs and cultural associations are available for children's and young people's leisure time, to channel civic engagement, to offer community and, not least, to help those who are vulnerable or in need with enormous endurance. With hundreds of thousands of volunteers and millions of volunteer hours, they carry society. Civil society is in many cases the ultimate safety net that captures society's most vulnerable and stands for a look beyond its own needs. And they keep doing it. They have mobilized during this crisis. But the pressure is also harsh, because revenue is also important for civil society quickly. Many are in deep economic crisis. Civil society has often shown that they leave no one in the lurch. It is also time for the public to show that we do not intend to let civil society and Association Sweden down in this crisis. If that happens, the price can be very high. Civil society communities play a major role. In times of crisis, this is particularly evident. I am thinking of the Prime Minister, who has talked with warmth about the life of associations and civil society. A prime minister who normally often sets the standard between society and the public now also sees the contribution of civil society as a cornerstone of the stronger society that we want to build. The social work carried out, for example, by the City Mission and the Whole Man is now being scaled up to help the people most affected by the pandemic, not least when other activities, municipal and others, are being forced to shut down for various reasons. Idea-borne care providers are changing in order to be able to contribute to the crisis. In the amending budgets we have debated to date, civil society has largely been forgotten, neglected, not there. Thank you is not enough; concrete support is also needed. That is why I am pleased that today there is a proposal for an additional 100 million from the government to civil society. We Christian Democrats believe that more is needed. We have been pushing for a civil society case so that civil society organisations whose revenues are in decline can receive more powerful support. We also believe that those organisations that work humanitarianly and socially with the increased needs during the pandemic should also be able to receive greater support. Now the government is proposing 50 million. That's good. More is needed. It will go precisely to those who work with humanitarian and social needs. Then, of course, it is difficult not to note the previous speaker from the Swedish Democrats, who requires that that money be withdrawn – that the City Mission, the Gothenburg Rescue Mission, the All Man and the other organizations that work against the most vulnerable in society should not have a crown because they do not ask people who come to their help if they are undocumented or not. It's worth noting. I think it's deviant. Mr President, I would like to We need to do more for civil society, not less. We need to ensure that greater efforts are made to make it through the crisis and to carry out their important mission of continuing, with the enormous perseverance that they are now demonstrating, to help people who are in a vulnerable situation regardless of why they have ended up in it. It is good that support is now coming, but it will also be more necessary in the future. I am absolutely convinced of that. Mr President, I would like to We also need to review other actions in this budget, evaluate them and ensure that they continue to fulfil their purpose. I am thinking in particular of the unemployment fund and the housing allowance. They have a little different purposes. It is reasonable that the ceiling of the unemployment fund should be raised in this crisis as proposed by the government. We have no objection to that. At the same time, however, the checkout is a conversion insurance policy and it is important that it continues to contribute over time to such a conversion. We believe that we need to focus on this in the future too, so that we are able to provide people with security without, at the same time, contributing over time to more unemployment. We also see that the housing allowance is now being increased. That's a good thing. It provides increased support for vulnerable families with children. But there too we need to consider whether this temporary increase is the right way forward. We would probably prefer to see a permanent reinforcement of the housing allowance. The purpose of the housing allowance is, of course, to provide support for those in financial vulnerability, not least families with children, to meet their housing costs in the long term. There, permanent support, along with other reforms, should be seen as a better measure. Of course, it is not stupid or bad that this is being done. In addition, we see that, at this stage, we could do more with regard to rail and its infrastructure. Now it is more empty on the tracks, and then it is up to us politicians to try to take advantage of this opportunity to take smart measures to equip our rail system. We know that in normal times it is very difficult to get to the important maintenance, but now that it is sparse we could do more to equip the railway and thus also equip Sweden for the coming times. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, let me just say something about another of the efforts made in the amending budget. It's about the effort to counteract the loneliness of older people. The pandemic has focused on the important issues of social isolation and loneliness. It is important that organisations that work to break the loneliness and isolation of this pandemic receive this extra support, not least the telephone lines that are kept open to provide support to people who are involuntarily alone. But I am also thinking of those for whom the pandemic has not changed the conditions at all, the hundreds of thousands of people who were in loneliness and isolation before the crisis and for whom the restraining order on retirement homes did not matter because they were in such loneliness already before. This work must begin and take place with renewed strength after the pandemic in order for us to break the involuntary loneliness experienced by many and which creates so much problems in our society, not least when it comes to people's physical and mental ill health. I support the Christian Democrats' reservation, No 3.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-59	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by underlining what has been said here by others about the fantastic efforts being made throughout our society by health and social workers, by people who carry out their important social work and by everyone else who keeps social distance and slows down the spread of infection. Now it's really about not really breathing out but more persevering. We're not through this crisis yet. Since the outbreak of the virus, the Swedish parliament and government have taken responsibility for Sweden and quickly made a number of important decisions. It is historical crisis packages and amending budgets with measures for approximately SEK 245 billion put in place – measures that slow down the spread of infection, that strengthen health care, that protect Swedish jobs and companies and that strengthen security and the possibility of transition for those who become unemployed. As early as March 11, the government announced that the state would bear all extraordinary health and care costs due to the Corona virus. Now we add another SEK 2 billion to compensate the municipal sector. Overall, SEK 5 billion is set aside to ensure, among other things, resources for extra material consumption, contamination detection and higher personnel costs. If more money is needed, we will also provide additional resources on this appropriation. The message to all municipalities and regions is crystal clear: money should not, must not and will not stand in the way of the important work of healthcare and care. In order to further prevent the spread of infection and to allow more people to stay at home in case of disease, the withdrawal is now extended. The compensation is also increased from SEK 700 to SEK 804 per day. Mr President, I would like to We are in the midst of a health crisis in which we are doing our utmost to protect life and health and support health care. But the economic crisis that we are now seeing around the world has also hit the Swedish economy hard. The outlook for the future is uncertain, and we do not yet know when the crisis is over. In order to alleviate the economic effects of the pandemic, we have introduced many different measures, such as short-term lay-off, which now includes half a million Swedish employees. Over SEK 25 billion has been paid out by the Swedish Agency for Growth, and that is 5 billion more than when I stood here a week ago. To further help fundamentally viable Swedish companies to overwinter the crisis, we will introduce conversion aid, and we have reduced employers' contributions over four months. In order to further lift the costs for employers, the State's responsibility for the costs of sickness pay is now extended. The removal of the requirement for a medical certificate is also being extended. To strengthen liquidity, the government has currently issued loans and guarantees of SEK 560 billion. In order to meet an increased demand for venture capital and increase the possibility of borrowing for small and medium-sized enterprises, the capital injection to Almi will be increased by an additional SEK 400 million. We know that the Corona virus has hit some industries particularly hard. We have already made a major contribution to culture and the media, and today we are strengthening the effort for those advertising-dependent media that have quickly seen their revenue waning. In order to ensure a functioning journalism throughout the country, an additional SEK 500 million will be added in support of public news media in 2020. In Sweden, we want journalists to review this crisis. We do not want journalists to be put on short-term leave, but rather to look at what we in charge and decision-makers are doing. In Sweden, we do not focus on journalism, but we support it so that it can do its important job in our democracy. In addition, we also strengthen the non-profit sector, which Jakob Forssmed spoke about just recently, with SEK 100 million for those who work with support activities for the most vulnerable in society and so that we can counteract the isolation and loneliness of the elderly. Mr President, I would like to Despite historically great and powerful measures, we will not be able to save all jobs. We have not been able to do so – we have seen this because unemployment is increasing. That is why we have already reduced the thresholds for unemployment insurance so that it can cover more, and at the same time the ceiling has been raised. To further strengthen financial security, the highest income-related compensation after the first 100 days is now increased from SEK 760 to SEK 1 000 a day. In order to reach economically weak households in particular, an additional allowance is introduced for families with children entitled to housing allowance. It shall be valid for the year-end. In particular, the Corona crisis has brought to light the difficult staffing situation that we have in the care of the elderly and which is also facing in the future. I know that those who pull a heavy load now at the front line most of all need more colleagues in order to continue their work in the long term. Therefore, we do an elderly care lift where you get the opportunity to train as a nurse or assistant on paid working hours. That's why we're building professional adult jobs with 5,000 full-year jobs. The aim is to create more opportunities to fill the full-time employment of people who are already in the profession and create better care. Those who now take this opportunity to change their profession and educate themselves choose one of our most important future occupations. The conditions in the Swedish labour market have changed dramatically and will continue to do so over time. For many, education is a key to establishing or returning to the labour market once the crisis is over. We are already seeing how more people are applying to higher education institutions and universities. Therefore, we bring more resources to offer more study places. We also want to make it easier for more people to take part in the start-up support. More resources are provided for short courses that enable people who have lost their working hours to take the opportunity to train and retrain. People's education is also reinforced in this bill. The outbreak of the new coronavirus has changed the conditions for teaching in primary and especially secondary schools. Increased sick leave and more distance learning are two examples that have made it more difficult for many students to reach the knowledge requirements. Therefore, money is earmarked for schools to offer holiday school. To strengthen well-being, so far in 2020 we have contributed a historically large contribution of SEK 26 billion in general grants. In addition to this, we are now adding 3 billion more to the regions so that they can maintain the important public transport system as they have seen large numbers of ticket revenues in recent months. In particular, it is important for us to ensure that people in socially-supporting professions are able to get to their jobs. Several speakers here have pointed out that as travel has decreased, it is a golden opportunity to make efforts in our infrastructure and bring forward investments in road maintenance and track work. Such suggestions are also included in this bill. It creates both jobs here and now and builds and improves our infrastructure in the long term. Mr President, I would like to It is, as I said, historic crisis measures that we have presented. Only today's decision is estimated to cost $23.7 billion. Thanks to record low public debt and strong public finances, we have created buffers that now allow for large investments and support measures. The measures that we are putting in place today contribute to the slowing down of the spread of infection, strengthen health care, protect Swedish jobs and companies and strengthen security and the possibility of conversion for those who have become unemployed. Of course, the crisis will get us through. One day it's more as usual than it is today, and then we'll get Sweden back on track. I support the committee's proposal.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-79	Mr President, I would like to Then we stand here again to debate and then decide on another supplementary amending budget. It has become much of that product, but we can note that Sweden's political processes during this spring have shown themselves from its best side. Of course, there have been different opinions, and certainly there are now reservations about ideas about things that should be done more or less, but this has not stopped this House from acting very quickly and very forcefully. The things that have to come in place have come into place as quickly, straight and simple as possible. That's very positive. The extraordinary amending budget being debated today is something of a potpurri with several important actions in a number of different areas. It is a question of replenishing measures that have been taken in the past. There have already been major decisions by this House in terms of expanding the number of training places and so on, and now further decisions are being taken in this direction so that all those who now see this economic downturn as a chance to educate themselves and perhaps change careers have good opportunities for this in terms of places, student aid and the like. We have previously strengthened Almi Företagspartner, which is an important part of the Swedish capital supply for not least small and growing companies. We are now filling up further so that Almi Invest, in particular, can act with equity capital and replenish where you are already a partner and also be able to enter new types of companies where there is great potential but you need support from the state venture capital supply system. Therefore, Almi is further strengthened. We also update and update the calculations regarding, for example, the healthcare promise, which was one of the first steps taken in this corona management and where we made it clear that municipalities and regions do not have to turn down any single justified measure to prevent, delay or prevent the spread of infection. The State takes those costs straight off, and the price tag for this has grown in a number of rounds and is likely to grow again. However, we are adding additional money to make it clear that that promise is fully funded. Municipalities and regions can plan their testing, medical care and similar such measures in full confidence that the state takes care of the extraordinary price tags. During this debate and this spring, a number of representatives from, I guess, all parties have argued on the subject: D that we have always thought we still think, and that is even more important because of the Corona crisis. We've been thinking that for decades. The Corona crisis only shows that we have been right all along. I also have a few such points and could talk about civil defence, food security and other things. But it is almost more interesting to look at what new conclusions have been drawn or what measures have been taken to get in place that may not be entirely in the middle of the party programme. I would like to take a few examples of this. Normally, the Center Party believes that we should have a tight unemployment fund that leads to and is part of a work line. Now we have participated in several steps, of which we take one today, towards making the unemployment fund broader and more generous. It is the right thing to do, just as it is right to strengthen the housing allowance. Nor is that an issue that the Center Party may have championed most. It is about creating the social security we are talking about at all levels. For people with a tight income, it's tough to make the budget go together. It is worse than ever to have to sit with such concerns during the current Corona crisis. This is also a period during which the extra hours at work may be cancelled. There is greater uncertainty than ever about how to cope with supply. Then it is right and proper that we ensure that we provide the security we can by, as we are doing today, replenishing the unemployment fund and a more generous housing allowance. It's the right thing to do. These are not the main priorities of the Center Party at all times. But right here and now, it's the right thing to do. Let me take another example. For the past five six years, center parties have stood in this speaker's chair and in many other places, advocating the importance of cutting back on the dedicated state grants and investing in general grants that municipalities themselves can prioritise. We are now making a new temporary special contribution of 3 billion for regional public transport. Why? It is about strengthening the central functions of society, and public transport, which the regions are looking after, must continue to function. But that priority is, of course, more difficult than ever for the regions, because they must also give priority to new extraordinary medical costs. In order for that priority and for the maintenance of that function to function as well, straight and simple as possible, it is therefore right to make a special contribution directly to that function of society, to public transport. It's a dedicated contribution. It's normally bad. But right now, it's the right thing to do. The third and last example is the increase in pre-financing. Normally, it is not one of our main priorities. But we know that the newspaper and media industry was under a lot of pressure before. We also know that political inaction would mean the dismantling and closure of a number of particularly regional newspapers during the burning Corona crisis. It is a worse situation than ever for such a development and for doing nothing. Social tranquillity and social calm require a vital journalism around the country. It's always important to have it. But it is more important than ever to ensure that it is not during the current pandemic and crisis that the country press will succumb. On the contrary, it is needed more than ever, and hopefully we will solve the problem not only temporarily but also in a more permanent way. Here and now it is the right thing to do to go in with an extraordinary effort, not least for our local newspapers. The important function of society must and deserves to remain in these very tough times. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report and return to work. I suspect that this is not the last supplementary amending budget we are debating in the near future.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-92	Mr President, I would like to When the year began, it became clear that substantial cuts in welfare were planned. That is why the Left Party took three weeks to this year to initiate an extraordinary amending budget. It eventually went through in this Chamber. We negotiated with the Moderates and the Christian Democrats. A week ago, we took a new initiative to push for new money for welfare. There were still cuts around the country. At that time, the government, together with its partner parties, announced an additional EUR 6 billion. Nevertheless, we know that there are still cuts going on out there. Unlike Moderates, Christian Democrats and Swedish Democrats – I assume that center parties and liberals also want to continue to reduce taxes – we do not believe that welfare can be financed by magic. We believe that it is quite reasonable that people with thick wallets and great wealth can contribute more so that we can have a more dignified and equal society. Unlike the Center Party, even when it is not a corona crisis, we think it is important that people are not poor-made but receive dignified living conditions. Therefore, it is reasonable to have an increased unemployment fund and to make it more accessible to more people. When you lose your job, it shouldn't be the way you don't qualify for unemployment benefit. It goes without saying that we should have a dignified and secure unemployment fund with a good level of remuneration for people who lose their jobs. Our entry point is that people want to contribute to the construction of society. Most people also do the best they can in it. During the debate and during the time we have lived with Corona, there has often been talk of heroes in care and care. That's good. It is good that their work is highlighted and their efforts made visible. But let me say that the efforts that are now being made are those that have been made in the past. Of course, it is now under stronger pressure and greater stress, and it is a very important and central work for the whole of society. But it is also in everyday life. The care of the elderly is central to the whole of welfare construction, not least from a feminist perspective. We women often work in the care of the elderly. The old ones that are taken care of are also often older women. They have taken care of their older men in the past. The same is true of health care. That's where you fight. And that has been done for a long time, with too few resources. Mr President, I would like to I intend to devote most of my speech to care for the elderly. Elderly care is the municipal activity that has had the most extensive cuts for the longest time. What it needs is resources. These are resources to counter shared tours, minute hunting, stress, poor working conditions and constant pressure. I have spent a lot of time practising in the care of the elderly during the years I have been a councillor but also as a Member of Parliament. Once upon a time, I also worked in care for the elderly. I have chosen to do the practice to create my own picture of the situation in elderly care. It can easily be summed up like this: The employees say: We do a very important job. We appreciate and like our work. But we have very bad working conditions. We have poor wages, and we have too little time to do the care that would actually be needed. It's a constant quest for time. We're too few. ..................................................... When I talk to the old people, they say, "We appreciate very much those who come here." There's a lot of them, and they're always stressed out. We wish they had more time, for our sakes, but also for their own sake. ..................................................... I'll give you some examples of what it might look like when there's no crisis. I practiced in a municipality where two nurses during working hours three times a day went ten miles, five miles [50 km] there and five miles [50 km] back, but the municipality had no budget to finance those trips. So you didn't get paid for the time you were in the car. In the same municipality, the managers said: When we get our budget, we know from the beginning that it does not last the year. In another municipality, the manager said: "We know that our budget is not enough – it is not enough for telephone costs or for the petrol cost of the cars, and we will not be able to afford substitute services." In one municipality I visited, training had been stopped for several years, in another for one year. That's what it looks like. I often talk to nurses when I'm out. They tell us about shared tours. They can leave home at 6:30 in the morning and come home at 10:00 to 11:00 in the evening. At the same time, they have had to sit at work for three hours in the middle of the day and wait. During that time they haven't had time to go home, but they may have been able to take a walk, eat a little bit and think about life or what to do at work – unpaid, of course. They are gone 13 hours from home and have paid for maybe half that time or a few more hours. That is how working conditions look in the care of the elderly. We can see that 25% of employees have temporary jobs. Twenty percent are hourly employees. Here in Stockholm it looks much worse than average. These are bourgeois-governed municipalities. Danderyd, a low-tax municipality, is the worst. There 43 per cent of those working in the elderly are employed for hours. Can such an activity, a welfare activity that is central, be considered important politically if it is abused in this way? I'd like to say no. Recently, we read in the newspapers about a private company that considered that two employees could take care of 50 old people at night. Such an activity is not considered to be sufficiently important. I hope Corona has made more people realize how important care for the elderly is to our society. Older people should always have a dignified care. Stress, the search for minutes, the split tours and the poor working conditions must end. I think that the proposal for an education initiative contained in this budget is very good. It was a proposal that we had in our budget last autumn and that we again put forward under the Corona. It is a good thing, but it will be too small because there is a need for 150 000 more employees for today's quality in welfare by 2030. I also think it is good to change the start-up support and make it available to more people. It is an effort that would really have to be permanent. More people need to read because we know that unemployment is often caused by having too little education. It is also a good thing that you can change in the middle of a professional life and have the opportunity to read further. It is therefore a good thing that the framework for the start-up grant is changed, but it should be permanent. It is also a good thing to increase railway maintenance. We proposed that a few months ago. It would have to be bigger, but it is in the right direction. It is a good thing to raise the compensation during the Karen Day – a withdrawal premium that is raised. However, it has not abolished the withdrawal, as it claims to have done. Finally, I would just like to add my voice to Jakob Forssmed's words. I would also like to say that I think it is good that civil society has more resources, but more is needed. It is a major crisis that affects civil society, and above all the people they help and are there for, very hard. But we will have to come back to that. I am in favour of the committee's proposal, and the Left Party also has a special opinion.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-115	Mr President, I would like to I would like to express my support for the committee's proposal. I feel enormous pride in Sweden as a welfare nation and welfare society. When I leave my son in the morning at preschool at home in Skåne and later in the day I need to visit the health centre or when I call my old parents at home in Småland and know that they have access to care and medical care when it needs it I feel how our welfare society actually delivered. Especially in this crisis, our welfare society has really delivered t. Medical care has encountered an influx of patients. People have been able to feel safe throughout the health care system. But caring for the elderly has not worked as it should. Mr President, I would like to When I think about our welfare society and reflect on the crisis and what is happening right now, one thing has become very clear to me: We see how municipalities and regions now find it very difficult to make ends meet. Why is that? Well, it's not because you've given up staff yourself. On the contrary, many regions and municipalities have employed more people during the crisis. But what has happened is that companies have gone bankrupt and that companies have given notice and dismissed employees. As unemployment rises and employment declines, it falls with clinical precision into the budgets of municipalities and regions. It is, of course, our task in this House to ensure that, during the crisis, municipalities and regions do not have to lay off health workers. Nurses, preschool teachers, teachers and doctors should of course keep their jobs even if it is a corona crisis. But this also shows that what builds our welfare society is that we have full employment. It is that companies hire and that small businesses and entrepreneurs go to work every day and fight and build their life's work and dreams. In this way, they build our common welfare. Without companies, Sweden stays. It is entrepreneurs who build our common welfare. I think that is a clear lesson from the crisis. Mr President, I would like to If we are to have the welfare society that I like so much and which has proved to be relatively strong during the crisis, it is based on people working. It is based on the fact that we can avoid mass bankruptcies and mass unemployment. It's based on companies being able to hire. So there is a link between the welfare society, jobs and businesses. That is why this budget is very important, because it contains precisely these elements. It includes investments in welfare and targeted investments in public transport, but it also provides relief for Swedish entrepreneurs. The abolition of sickness pay is extended, we make targeted investments in smaller companies through money to Almi Invest, and we strengthen welfare through training efforts that increase employees' skills and knowledge, which benefit the elderly through higher quality. Mr President, I would like to During this crisis, we have worked together in the Swedish Parliament across the block. On the Liberal side, we are taking responsibility, and we are pleased to see that more parties are taking responsibility in this crisis. It's important. It is a declaration of strength for Swedish politics and something we will carry with us in the future. As we now take responsibility for Sweden and do our utmost to ensure that jobs and welfare are secured, it is also important that we see that we will need to do more. This is one of many budgets that we are dealing with. I think we should treat more people. We will have to do more to secure prosperity and avoid bankruptcies and mass unemployment. In this way, we stand up for the conviction that our welfare society is based on the fact that we have entrepreneurs. Without entrepreneurs, Sweden stays.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-125	Mr President, I would like to In spite of the covid situation and all the concerns it entails, I am nevertheless pleased that we are standing in this House today to discuss the European Commission's White Paper on Artificial Intelligence. We have had this issue on the agenda for quite a long time in the Committee on Education and Training – for several terms of office the question has turned up and appeared when a minister has gone to Brussels for ministerial meetings and we have been able to contribute to the Swedish position. We look forward to continuing to contribute with fellow mail. Artificial intelligence is about the intelligence of machines and about a digital infrastructure that works at best for the benefit of people and society. The infrastructure is there to serve people and not the other way around. The White Paper sent out by the European Commission describes an ecosystem of excellence that supports development. It's a three-pronged approach. The first part of the strategy is about increasing public and private investment in artificial intelligence. The second part is about preparing for the societal changes brought about by artificial intelligence. The third part is about ensuring an ethical and legal framework. These are important things, all three of them, and they all go in each other. But there are of course also risks of artificial intelligence. I was going to spend a few minutes talking about those very risks, which we need to keep an eye on. This, of course, is a threat to personal integrity. There are people and systems that collect information about us and use that information for their own purposes. Who owns data? How is data used? By whom is data used, and to what is data used? These issues are important to sort out and have rules and procedures around. Another risk is that you see artificial intelligence as just technology or data. It's about infinitely more. Theories and insights from humanities and social sciences are needed. That we are talking about artificial intelligence and a multidisciplinary approach in the same sense is A and O if we are going to get right on this issue. It is very important that we keep an eye on the ethical perspective. Today we know that what is programmed into artificial intelligence is very often done by people who look about the same and who have similar backgrounds and cultural approaches. What's coming out will look the same as what's being put in. I would like to say that this is perhaps the most important idea and the most important point that we must keep with us: that we must discuss equality and diversity in every way when we discuss AI. We also need to keep an eye on skills-enhancing efforts. Artificial intelligence must be understood and used by many more, and Sweden must continue to be part of the world-leading research, which we today see as being in this area. For us to succeed in this, it requires constantly updated human skills, so that we really know that artificial intelligence does the right things. We also need to keep an eye on the responsibility, of course. A good artificial intelligence removes dangerous or boring jobs, which may create ill-health in people, by automating jobs. But what happens to responsibility? Where does man end, and where does the machine start? We must ask such questions. Then we know that time is released when jobs are automated – we have seen that throughout history. What do we do with that time? How do we increase the quality of life through artificial intelligence? These are also issues that we need to bring with us. Artificial intelligence, finally, is about research at both basic level and applied level. It is about education and development. It's about being able to switch jobs and change jobs. It's about conversion. In all the different parts, the question of artificial intelligence needs to be included. But I would like to emphasise once again that it is above all a question of responsible artificial intelligence with ethical principles. And I would like to say this once again: diversity in development and execution must be A and O. In doing so, I call for the committee's proposal to be approved in its opinion.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-136	Mr President, I would like to It feels a little extra solemn to stand here now when you are only here sporadic. The Moderates take a very positive view of the Commission's White Paper on Artificial Intelligence, AI. It is also very good that discussions will start on Europe's future approach to AI. Thanks to the digitalisation and development of AI, we have been able to continue the work of Parliament under the coronapdemine. Many companies have also been able to change their operations, and the teaching at our upper secondary schools and higher education institutions has been able to continue thanks to the development in AI. AI technology has great potential in many areas, for example in order to develop well-being but also to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish companies. We agree that excellence should be built up to support the development of AI in the EU. To achieve this, we need to mobilise resources so that the EU can strengthen its positions. We also see that AI research must be given priority at European level. We want to see support for both basic and applied research, but also targeted efforts to promote excellence. We Moderates want to point out that there is a need for increased collaboration between industry and academia. We see that there are significant shortcomings here, and we would like to emphasise the importance of ensuring that there is sufficient competence to fully exploit the potential of AI. One of the priorities is that our colleges and universities need to invest more in offering and content in AI education. But it will not be enough that it is only possible to train in AI at university level. We are convinced that knowledge must enter significantly lower ages. It must also be possible, as already a professional, to be able to further train themselves. Therefore, there will have to be efforts in lifelong learning, not least in adult education, which we are about to debate. The results of AI research can be of great benefit in the public sector, and we are in favour of supporting research with societal benefit. The potential is enormous if we only have the ability to see the possibilities. But, Mr President, AI also carries risks if it is used incorrectly – for example, it can be about criminal activity or illegal surveillance. We would like to emphasise that foreign and security policy aspects should be taken seriously. And international developments should be closely monitored. We therefore see moderates that resources must also be invested in research in this area. In conclusion, I think it is very important that all the committees of Parliament – not just the Committee on Education – are involved in the AI issue. There are contact points with virtually all Parliament's areas. If Sweden as a nation is to become a leader in this area, we must also work on how this is to be applied, and we do that best together.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-146	Mr President, I would like to Most people who are involved in this issue – from politics, industry, academia and society at large – can probably agree that the Swedish debate on digitalisation and artificial intelligence is characterized by some myths. But it is also characterized by the fact that apples and pears are often mixed – it should be said that everything that usually happens unintentionally. Still, most people probably put a similarity between AI and some kind of superintelligence. But the concept of AI is so incredibly much more than that. Not least for us in politics, it is important to understand this, otherwise we cannot design the right policies either for the technological development at large or for AI more specifically. There is a big difference between the recommendations algorithms in Netflix or HBO and AI-driven manipulation of markets. We are already in a digitally assisted society, although most people probably don't reflect on the changes because they usually happen continuously and unnoticed. Many already have a smartwatch, connected appliances and household appliances. We have advanced screening techniques to detect diseases that doctors then treat physically, and self-driving vehicles are being tested in pilot projects to an increasing extent, to name but a few. The development of AI can also mean something else, namely that for the first time we have started to develop machines and robots that can replace or correspond to human innovation, creativity and ethical misgivings. These developments are moving forward with enormous technological leaps and huge investments from the major tech companies, in principle without any regulation in any country. AI itself is immaterial, but combined with the super-fast development in nearby areas such as growing computing power in computers, machine learning, the volumes of big data generated every day, 5G, new generations of increasingly advanced robots, drone technology and 3D printers, we face something new. Whether we are talking about the simplest and most closely related issues, such as a more centralised digital infrastructure, the medium difficult questions of how big data can be used and shared, or about the real difficult issues, such as a total change in the labour market and privacy aspects of AI, it is clear that politics today does not have the solutions or tools. Mr President, I would like to We in the Center Party welcome the Commission's White Paper. With today's report, it is our hope that we can begin a broader discussion in Sweden on all aspects of digitalisation and AI that we need to deal with from politics. There is no doubt that the labour market will change. In reality, this has already been going on for a long time. Old jobs will disappear, and new ones will be added. Both labour market policies and the entire education and training system must respond to this. Competence, both in terms of ongoing supply of skills and in terms of further training, is extremely central. It is about how we can strengthen both Sweden as a research nation and the EU as a research union. But it is also about what we need to do to ensure that more basic skills exist. The Center Party has long pushed the importance of more accessible data, and on the basis of the Commission's White Paper, I hope that in this House we can now gain a broader understanding of the importance of available data and the risks of data monopolies. Mr President, I would like to Digitalisation has taken seven-mile life in recent months when large groups in the labour market are teleworking digitally. This change is important to discuss, because it clearly shows that we cannot orchestrate either a digital labour market or, for that matter, a digital society. In the Center Party's view, what we can and should do is to provide the right conditions for the digital society to develop by creating laws and rules that take advantage of the rights and needs of the individual and society, while not stopping innovation. Technology is not an end in itself, but a means used to achieve a certain goal. It is our role in this House to review what goals technology can help us achieve and what balances we have to make in everything from security policy to ownership issues. Mr President, I would like to It is within healthcare, school and care that we need to focus to a large extent the political work – from preschool to advanced research, from primary care and care for the elderly to advanced emergency care. These are, of course, priority areas per se, but they are also areas where we can combine great progress with getting more for the same money while at the same time strengthening individual freedom of choice. The development that we have seen during the current pandemic is proof that there is much to gain from more digitised welfare. This applies to both urban and rural areas. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to emphasise that the potential social benefit of AI that we underline in the report from my perspective is not only potential. It's real.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-160	Mr President, I would like to Artificial intelligence is both an opportunity and a threat. Properly used and with research based on how technology can be used for people and to reduce injustice and poverty, technology is positive. When AI is used to create more precise and autonomous weapons or is used for monitoring in dictatorships, AI is a threat. The White Paper does not address the development and use of AI for military purposes, but AI systems can be used in this context. That is why it is so important that we establish that we need an international ban on deadly autonomous weapons systems. Such systems are incompatible with international law. I am pleased that we agree on this in the Swedish Parliament and have included it in our opinion. Nor should we turn a blind eye to AI being used for surveillance in non-democratic countries, for example by facial recognition and the collection of personal data. Countries like China are ahead of us in Europe in the development of AI, and it is important that we do not lag behind. The fact that the European Commission has produced the White Paper is a step on the way to catching up and to the development of AI based on democracy, international law, gender equality and diversity. It is also important for AI research and development in the EU to be used correctly. AI can and must be used in the service of mankind. One example is the environment and climate, where several uses have been identified, such as monitoring of emissions and deforestation from agriculture, more efficient transport networks to reduce unnecessary travel and more. Most forward-looking is to use geoengineering to reflect the sun's energy and heat back into space. There are researchers who hope that this is a use of AI that works. At least that is clear from a report that came out last year. Here in Sweden we are also investing in AI and climate. AI in the service of the climate is a research initiative in which Vinnova and Forma have announced 100 million. The application period is currently ongoing. The initiative will contribute to Sweden having no net greenhouse gas emissions by 2045 and that society is adapted to the climate changes we cannot prevent. It is probably only climate-deniers and those who stick their heads in the sand who believe that technology alone will solve our climate challenges. Behavioural changes and clear political efforts are required, but the technology can be used to facilitate our transition to fossil-free. Other positive areas are healthcare and care, where AI can contribute to both better care and better care. What I am concerned about is the strong link that exists between research and the market. I am pleased that the committee's opinion included the Left Party's input that it is not only about ensuring that the entire chain from research to the market is taken into account, but also that the results of AI research have great potential in the public sector and that support for research with societal benefit is required. The benefits of AI must come to everyone and not be a matter of resources. Publicly funded research cannot be primarily for the market but must be accessible and public and used to strengthen welfare. Properly used technology can be used to develop society so that more monotonous tasks can be performed digitally and thus facilitate people's work. Robots and digital solutions free people's time so that we get more free time and can shorten the working day. Gunilla Svantorp wondered what to use the time that was released for, but the Left Party has for a long time been running a reduction in working time from eight hours to six hours. This can AI help to enable. An important issue to sort out is responsibility. If a driverless car crashes, is the owner of the car or the manufacturer of the software responsible? Whose responsibility is it if AI in health care results in a care injury instead of a cure? Is it the doctor or the hardware provider? Another important issue is the ownership of all the data collected and who owns that technology. How comfortable do we feel when we look up one thing on the internet and then get targeted advertising on all social media? We do not own all the data collected about us today, nor can we influence how it is used. Mr President, I would like to In the development of AI, whether it's business, welfare or justice, ethical and security considerations must weigh heavily. In the current initiative, which will take place in the future, to educate and research in AI at higher education institutions and universities, ethical consideration must be integrated and an important part of development. There is a risk that the development of AI takes place in a few companies and countries that will or are already in a monopoly position. Knowledge and development of AI should be spread across multiple parties. There, the Swedish free research is important. The goal must be for AI to become a democratic and technological revolution that benefits everyone and not just a few. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal for a decision in the opinion.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-176	Mr President, I would like to Self-driving cars, robots that perform increasingly advanced tasks, analyses of extensive materials and analytical support when a diagnosis is to be made in the care are some examples of the untapped opportunities that come through artificial intelligence. AI, as many of my representatives in the speaker's chair have expressed, is a great opportunity for people. We need to make use of it in such a way that it creates opportunities and not limitations or intrusions for individuals as well as groups of people. Mr President, I would like to Liberals welcome the Commission's White Paper initiative. We also support the committee's opinion. However, we would like to highlight some aspects that are particularly important in the future. First of all, we need more research on AI. Compared to China and the United States, Europe is way behind in research and development of AI. This also includes Sweden. There are good approaches in Sweden, not least Wasp, Wallenberg Artificial Intelligence, Autonomous Systems and Software Program. It is Sweden's largest single research programme. Projects are also available within Rise and at a number of our higher education institutions. The question then, Mr President, is what the lack of research leads to. In addition to the obvious fact that Sweden is at risk of falling behind, the lack of own research also makes it difficult to understand, analyse and absorb the achievements made elsewhere. Without Europe – Sweden – being an interesting player, Swedish and European actors will not be able to influence the choice of standards and other solutions in artificial intelligence. That would be devastating. Given the progress and challenges that exist, there is a great need for AI development to also become a subject of scientific disciplines other than technical ones. The development spans humanities, political science and legal aspects that also need to be part of the research. Secondly, Mr President, as previous speakers have said, progress in AI needs to be monitored so that it does not at the same time mean a setback for human rights or abuse of personal privacy. It should also be pointed out that there are national security interests to guard. The new technology can have both spy and weapon applications that need to be continuously monitored so that they are not abused. All in all, this remembers that, unfortunately, if any progress is abused, it can also create problems.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-184	Mr President, I would like to The EU is now gathering strength for a digital age. AI will be an important tool for strengthening well-being and meeting the climate challenge. It is good that we are now developing a common European approach to the safe and responsible development of AI. The Commission's proposal involves a three-pronged approach, namely to increase public and private investment in AI, to prepare for the societal changes that AI will bring, and to ensure an appropriate ethical and legal framework. We need to create an ecosystem of trust through a regulatory framework, and the White Paper really points out the foundations. AI should be compatible with legislation, it should comply with ethical principles and it should be robust. AI should be reliable. I have recently been appointed the first Al-Political spokesperson of the Green Party. I am pleased that the Green Party already has some years of important experience in AI policy because we have been responsible for the government's national orientation for AI, which was developed last term of office. It is through cooperation and sharing and passing on knowledge that we humans have built the modern society we live in today. The capacity to organise society, to allow a variety of processes to go on at the same time and to manage them must contribute to a sustainable society. We humans have built larger and more complex societies than ever before. Sometimes the state changes extremely quickly– I am of course thinking now of the coronapandemia we are in the middle of, but I am also thinking of climate change. Rightly used, digitalisation and artificial intelligence can help us with the enormous challenges mankind faces. It is easy to be fascinated by what AI can achieve, Mr President. It gives us efficient search engines, GPS, i.e. navigation systems, talking personal assistants and spam filters without which our mailboxes would overflow with junk. It is also algorithms in our social media that sometimes make us madly interested in sewing machine advertising, robot assistants for older people and translation functions so that we can understand each other better. AI gives us great opportunities when we build renewable energy systems around the world, it contributes with autonomous vehicles, it diagnoses diseases and so on. Mr President, I would like to Expectation is great about what AI can contribute, and it is the broader applications that will be of greatest benefit to the public sector. Deviation detection, prediction and basis for subjective assessments are the three broad applications highlighted by Uppsala Municipality's digitisation and AI strategist Markus Bylund. His important message to the public sector is that AI and human intelligence together are most effective. AI will not help us politicians make the decisions, but AI will improve the quality of the decisions we make. Citizens will never respect a politician who only blames AI if an individual citizen is affected by a wrong decision. AI is dependent on large amounts of data. Questions we need to spend a lot of time on are whether there are digital workflows, who owns data, whether there are built-in problems or prejudices in data. It also applies to how autonomous systems can coexist with old honest technology. Look at the area of traffic policy: Do traffic regulations in each municipality need to be rewritten in each municipality when self-driving vehicles are introduced? Education and research are other areas in which we must engage. I am pleased that Olle Häggström at Chalmers University of Technology has given the Environmental Party an interesting knowledge and discussion basis for our work in the future. I myself have not attended the online course Element of AI but hope to get time for it this summer. It's a tip for all the MPs who haven't. AI can be used to build prosperity and to destroy it. That's why it's important who controls AI. The digital world is global, and whoever has power over digital companies also has great power over our future. The two dominants in Applied AI are China and the United States. China is a totalitarian state, and the question is how stable the United States really is. In the past, the EU has shown great determination to protect the fundamental rights of its citizens, for example by limiting mass storage of data from mobile phones and by introducing the General Data Protection Regulation – something for which green politicians in the EU have been a strong driver. It is therefore encouraging that in its White Paper, the European Commission is now addressing the issue of how AI can be promoted and limited so that it can be at the service of citizens and not used by states that want to oppress their citizens and those of others. To achieve this, we in Europe need to create a market with good opportunities for businesses. Technology that is so important to society must be able to be used by many, and it must be able to be examined so that responsibility can be demanded when things go wrong. In its opinion, the Committee on Foreign Affairs points out that EU Member States, together with like-minded people, are working across national borders to face threats and seize the opportunities of AI. It is about creating sufficient trust between the states of the world so that we do not have a destructive race, an arms race, where technology is used for war rather than for building a better future together. Although the world will succeed in using AI to promote humanity, reduce hunger, clear climate and save nature, there will always be those who want to abuse technology for their own benefit. With technology that is global and used in all parts of society, there are risks associated. It is therefore necessary to build a robust and reliable structure that can withstand attack. Sweden is at the forefront of knowledge and innovation in digital solutions, renewable energy and telecommunications. But we need to do much more. AI will shape the future. Therefore, we need to steer the development of AI by ensuring that there is an ethical regulatory framework and that all procurement of AI made with tax money is done in an ethical way. We also need to ban the absolute worst use of AI, namely autonomous weapons. It is therefore important that Sweden continues to press ahead with the Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons for an effective international ban on deadly autonomous weapons systems, which are incompatible with the requirements of international law. This is also stated in the proposal, which I support.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-203	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to mention that I think that the investigation and the bill that is now on Parliament's table have taken adult education a considerable step forward. With the new objective, which also takes into account the needs of the labour market, I am convinced that we will have a better school for all. Nevertheless, we are disappointed because we see that the level of ambition is too low. The Moderates consider that the proposed objective for Komvux is too broad and needs to be narrowed down. Furthermore, we would like to highlight the risk of different interpretations of the definition, and point out the need to carefully follow the interpretation of the wording. The Moderates reject the proposal for a simplified rating system and the merger of komvux and särvux. Furthermore, we propose freedom of choice and higher quality in adult education, individual SFI performance plans, more SFI teachers, performance-based remuneration in adult education and state supervision. Mr President, I would like to The most important point, however, is what I started with, namely the objective. The Moderates believe that the goal of komvux must be to provide adults with the tools necessary to function in both working and social life. The other proposals that the government lists as targets do not meet the requirements for targets but should rather be seen as means of achieving a higher objective. The obvious thing that should govern and be the overall goal of all education is that we should be able to function in our society, both today and tomorrow. Moreover, to say, as the government does, that all four proposed objectives should weigh equally weight creates problems. The goal of going to school cannot be an end in itself. The Moderates therefore believe that the government should return to the Riksdag with a proposal for a new goal for Komvux as follows: The overall goal of Komvux should be changed to be: Adults and young people should be given the opportunity to develop their knowledge and skills in order to strengthen their position in working and community life and young people who have not received an approved upper secondary school degree or want to change their tracks should be given the opportunity to do so. In order to achieve this objective, Komvux shall work, inter alia, to: Support and stimulate adults and young people in their learning 中 provide a basis for national and regional skills supply to the world of work. ..................................................... Then why should you not have multiple goals? Yes, you can certainly do that, but then they must also be a real objective. The fact that as the government is now proposing that adults should be supported and stimulated in their learning and as a goal becomes just weird. Target fulfillment says this is a quarter. Yes, we've achieved it at 25%-- we have a student here who's very motivated, but he hasn't learned anything. There will be the wrong goal when we measure the effect. Of course, students, regardless of their level, should be supported and stimulated in their learning. But that is hardly a goal for the studies. Rather, as I mentioned earlier, this is about a means. The problem with making funds a goal is that when you're going to sue the achievement of the goal, the results can be very strange. This leads to the allocation of the wrong resources and the attempt to solve problems that do not really exist or should perhaps be given lower priority. Mr President, I would like to With regard to the selection, the Moderates welcome the new selection definition and the greatest need for education and training. It is worrying, however, that there is a great deal of scope for virtually infinite interpretation of the meaning of this. The study points out that the proposed change gives greater scope for interpretation as to who should be prioritised and thus an increased risk of non-coherent assessments. We cannot stress enough the importance of developing guidelines that prevent arbitrary interpretations of the selection criteria. It is important that students who have not completed upper secondary school, switched programmes or for other reasons need to complete their upper secondary school education have the opportunity to study at Komvux. By way of conclusion, I would like to endorse Amendment No 5.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-219	Mr President, I would like to Komvux was established in 1968, and the word, as you know, is an abbreviation of municipal adult education. The aim is to provide education to adults who lack knowledge equivalent to comprehensive school or upper secondary school and thus to provide adults with the knowledge needed to participate in the community and working life. In order to start basic adult education, you must fill at least 20 years of age and live in Sweden during the year, and the education also offers opportunities for further studies. This is what komvux is. Komvux, on the other hand, is not an integration project to try to repair a catastrophic migration policy with extensive lack of study results as a result. But when you read the government bill, that's exactly the picture you get. It is clear that the proposal's mention of better throughput and change in the target group bears witness to this very point. The Swedish Democrats are deeply opposed to, and directly concerned, that the ambitions for adult education are not higher than that. Rather, we believe that Komvux should work to protect quality and knowledge and set high demands and expectations. There is a strong value in having a high-quality adult education and preparing students for future careers or studies. The Swedish Democrats are fundamentally in favour of the possibility of being able to retrain themselves later in life in order to become more attractive in a changing labour market. This applies to those who lack basic education as well as those who have a longer education behind them. We can certainly see light points in the fact that the bill emphasises that adult education is also aimed at those who have a longer education behind them. However, like a number of consultation bodies, such as the University of Gothenburg and the Swedish School Inspectorate, we believe that there are good reasons to question what is meant by the concept. We see a danger that the above-mentioned target group, with such a order of priorities, may stand back for others. A new order of priorities must not lead to legal uncertainty or different assessments in different municipalities. People with some form of intellectual disability have the right to read at komvux, where they should be given priority and special support. However, it is more common to take part in particular, where needs can be met in a different way that the usual adult education cannot offer. The Swedish democrats therefore believe that it was a big mistake to let skilvy end as a special school form and become part of regular adult education activities. It risks having devastating consequences for the quality of education, while at the same time there is an imminent risk of these pupils being marginalised. We thus share the criticism and concern expressed by a number of consultation bodies, such as the Special Educational School Authority and the National Association of Teachers. We are also deeply concerned that this target group will have to stand back for other target groups if the proposed order of priority is introduced. Furthermore, we believe that the proposals for a simplified grade scale and for turning upper secondary school work into a competive work drastically lowers knowledge requirements and creates an unfair relationship with the regular primary and secondary school. The Swedish Democrats believe that there must be similarity between studies in general primary and secondary schools and komvux at the corresponding level. The proposal to introduce a simplified rating scale runs directly counter to this overall principle. Rather, the current proposal creates fast track for certain target groups, not least new arrivals and students with a lack of knowledge of the Swedish language. It is not reasonable to lower the thresholds for this target group and thus make it significantly easier to enter upper secondary education or to obtain upper secondary education. We share the view that SFI education is of crucial importance for a person to be able to become an employee and thus become a part of Swedish society. Unlike the government, however, we believe that there must be a much higher level of SFI requirements than is currently being done – not lower. A major problem is, for example, that there is no fixed time limit for sfi, but the course is considered completed only when a student has reached the knowledge requirements for the course in question. This means that the SFI studies can last for an unacceptable period of time. The government should therefore have waited for the results of the additional directives, which relate to the time frame for the SFI, before the bill was put on the board of the Riksdag. Furthermore, in order to further ensure the quality of teaching in SFIs, we believe that uncertified mother tongue teachers should only receive fixed-term employment, given that the objective must be to increase the proportion of qualified teachers in SFIs as well. Having said that, I would like to call for the approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 1 and the rejection of the bill as a whole.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-233	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Center Party's reservation No 3, because, Mr President, lifelong learning and the possibility of further training also after high school is important. Just as important as it is for those who have an easy time to choose education and develop according to their ability and interest, it is that those who have an intellectual disability also have the opportunity to develop according to their ability and interest. But if you went to special school, you don't have the same opportunity. It is not self-evident that you should be allowed to continue your studies in a post-secondary education. Instead, it depends on what the municipality wants to offer you and whether they think you really need further studies. You don't really have a choice of your own. This is so wrong and so unnecessary. Special education is important for those students who need this form of school. At the same time, placement in special education places limitations on opportunities for further education and work when you are older. We know that there are many jobs you can do even if you have an intellectual disability, as long as you get the chance to continue to learn more after high school. The Center Party wants to open up more opportunities for those in special school. It is about the possibility of adapted education, both within the university of applied sciences and the university, as well as apprenticeship training and other labour market adapted training courses for those who have attended special education. Better opportunities to study in folk high schools are also needed. On 4 May 2017, the Riksdag adopted an announcement that the Government will specifically review how access to post-secondary education for pupils with intellectual disabilities can be improved. It was a decision I had longed for and worked for since I received the privilege of joining the Swedish Parliament in 2006. It was a united parliament that, after ten years of work, made the decision that spring day 2017 – a decision that all parliamentary parties supported. That's the way it should be. This cannot and should not be a partisan position. To take a stand in order to give the opportunity to those who have gone to special school to fulfill their dreams, just as it is possible for those who are able to fulfil their dreams easily, is a question of democracy. Everyone has a place in our society, and everyone is needed in our society. Mr President, I would like to We from the Center Party support much of the government's proposals that we are debating today. We from the Center Party have been pursuing issues for a long time in order to improve labour market matching, facilitate transition and create good conditions for lifelong learning. We also agree with the proposals aimed at strengthening the opportunities for adult pupils with intellectual disabilities to obtain higher education qualifications. However, we do not believe that the announcement of May 2017 is fulfilled. Improving the conditions for special school pupils to obtain higher education qualifications is part of this. However, improving access also requires taking into account the funding of studies, the design of education and the possibility of studying elsewhere. There are no alternatives for those who have been trained in special education. There have been fewer places for education in folk high schools, while universities and colleges currently do not offer any adapted courses at all. Part of the problem is the remuneration of the student. Special school students who go to higher education are not automatically entitled to full study funding because the pace of study often needs to be slower than for other students and therefore they cannot take the number of points required for full student support. At the same time, the student loses the right to an activity allowance. These students end up in an element 22 that is totally unacceptable. The activity compensation is the largest source of income for many who have been trained in special school. If you lose your support, your income, without the possibility of other compensation, it will of course be difficult, if not impossible, to study further. The study funding system needs to be adapted and made more flexible to enable further studies at all. Another part of the problem is that the courses are often not adapted to the students' conditions. They are of course designed after students who have been educated in upper secondary school, which of course puts the student in upper secondary school completely outside. Furthermore, it is difficult to study elsewhere for those who need special support in their daily lives. It is up to the municipality of residence to decide whether the necessary support should be given when moving. For many, this means, in principle, a municipal arrest. And that, of course, limits the educational offer and choice for the individual. Mr President, I would like to The obstacles we saw in spring 2017, when all parties in the Riksdag decided on the announcement, are still there. The announcement said that the government will in particular review how access to post-secondary education for pupils with intellectual disabilities can be improved, because there are still significant obstacles left for pupils with intellectual disabilities to participate in post-secondary education. We are therefore clear from the Center Party that the issue needs further investigation.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-248	Mr President, I would like to For many people, adult education has provided a second chance when previous school forms have failed, for others a chance of professional change. After completing primary and secondary school, everyone must have sufficient knowledge of social and working life. This knowledge sees the Left Party as a right. All adults who do not have this knowledge shall have the right to receive it in adult education. As the labour market changes, it becomes a growing problem that many young people have not completed upper secondary school. Today, there is a large group of young adults who are poorly equipped for working life and are in danger of having difficulty in maintaining or getting a job. Specific actions in adult education and labour market policies are needed to improve their opportunities and to facilitate future skills provision. Studying as an adult means different conditions than for children and young people. In many cases, studies need to be combined with parenthood and work. A flexible design of the studies with the possibility of distance studies, evening studies or studies at different speeds is therefore important. Adult education needs to be based largely on students' different needs for support and different study backgrounds. This may include study guidance in native language, study motivation courses or individual planning. However, adult education does not have to be left in the hands of private actors, with limited opportunities for the responsible vice-chancellor to take control of the business as a result. Today's system risks giving municipalities incentives to procure education at the lowest possible cost, hoping that many will have access to education but with the risk of tax money being wasted on courses that are not of sufficient quality. Instead, municipalities should be given the opportunity to offer training in classrooms and at a distance in their own direction. Vocational education and training for adults must be developed in terms of both scope and quality. There is a need for flexible forms of training that can meet these temporary or local training needs. In addition, there must be opportunities for training for more traditional craft professions, for example. In order to succeed in quality vocational training, these training courses must be run in close collaboration with adult education and with those sectors and employers who will then employ trained staff. The freedom of choice system in adult education can have the effect that the provision of education is based on the interests of educational enterprises rather than the skills needs of the local labour market. Mr President, I would like to Economic crises are rarely foreseeable. We do not know how long the one caused by the coronapndemine will last. But it is likely that many people will need to retrain during the crisis or when the crisis is over. We can already see the consequences of the pandemic in many sectors. It is positive, we believe, that the government is now proposing a change of law that means that it is those who have the greatest need for education that should be prioritised when admission. On the basis of the current situation, we cannot wait a year for this legislation to come into force. That is why we in the Left Party believe that the legislation on the priority provisions should enter into force on 1 January 2021. Having said that, I would like to support the Left Party's Amendment No 6.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-258	Mr President, I would like to We are debating today the Government's proposal for changes in the Komvux. Several of the elements are very welcome, such as more clearly meeting adults' needs for new skills in order to move forward in working life and livelihoods and linking Komvux to the skills needs of the labour market. The current mismatch is negative both for the individual and for society as a whole. Everyone needs to feel that one's abilities are taken care of and that one has the opportunity to contribute to society and to one's own livelihood. We also support the proposal for simplified rating. We also understand the proposal to include special education for adults with mental retardation or acquired brain injury, såtvux, in komvux. However, there is an imminent risk of marginalising an already vulnerable group when they will be part of a larger organisation. I would like to highlight in particular the specific skills needed by teachers and other staff, such as study and career counselors, to meet the specific needs of this group. I therefore believe that this issue should be closely monitored and evaluated two years after the reform has entered into force. Mr President, I would like to It is reasonable that, regardless of the municipality in which you live, you have the opportunity to study the various national programmes offered in vocational or upper secondary schools. If a municipality does not provide a specific programme, the municipality residents who want to read that particular programme should be able to do so in another municipality. Municipalities can also sign cooperation agreements with each other, so that smaller municipalities, for example, can provide some upper secondary programmes per municipality instead of all municipalities necessarily being prepared for just all educations. On the other hand, allowing adult pupils to study courses already offered in the municipality elsewhere may lead to unjustified costs, especially for small municipalities. In one municipality with which I have been in contact, a single student studying elsewhere suddenly had to bear a cost equivalent to one fifth of the entire komvux budget. I therefore believe that the right to study in another municipality should be limited to education that is not offered in the municipality of residence or the area of cooperation. This applies both to current competitors and to those who are now in dire straits, and who will therefore be in Komvux after the reform has been implemented. In some cases where a municipality does not offer the education that the student needs for his/her establishment in the labour market or for further studies, it can therefore be reasonable for the student to be able to attend such education in another municipality, even outside the area of cooperation. This could, for example, be a narrow craft training that does not exist in the area of cooperation. In such cases, a significant cost arises for the municipality, which can thus break the entire Komvux budget, especially since this mainly affects smaller municipalities with limited financial resources. When skilvux will shortly be included in komvux, there are likely to be more such cases. This is something that needs to be followed up and may need to be addressed when one sees the effects of it all. With this, Mr President, I support the Christian Democrats' reservation 4.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-264	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. We are now discussing the government proposal Komvux for strengthening skills provision. I will come to the proposals a little later, but after listening, I feel the need to talk a little about the views of the Social Democrats on adult education and how adult education started in our country. For us social democrats, education and education are the cornerstones of our building society. Formation and education create freedom, equality and equality regardless of the backpack you bring. For this reason, social democratic-led governments have always invested in education and training. We have seen it with other governments too, but above all when we are in charge. Folkbildning is part of adult education. There is a motto that really shows what peoples are: Formation not only for the people but also through the people. You participate on equal terms and that what you do is important. Folkbildningen started with study circles, precisely because during a time when our country was very unequal give people the opportunity to increase their knowledge and take a place in society no matter who they were. This was done in the study associations. Then came folk high schools, which already had a kind of adult education in the form of their courses. Important was the 1946 School Commission, which identified something they called late - waking talents, that is, adults who were late in life that they wanted to study. The 1946 School Commission suggested that they be prepared for a suitable course of study for them. This eventually became the adult education of our time, which we have had since 1968. In view of what we have heard about the objectives of previous speakers, I would like to remind you of the objectives of adult education. Then, as now, it is about giving individuals a second chance to strengthen their position in working life and social life and promote personal development. Adult education is very much about strengthening democracy and personal development, increasing gender equality and providing access to lifelong learning. There are no age limits in adult education; it is important to remember. It's supposed to be there for the rest of its life. Balancing the needs of individuals, society and the labour market can be a problem. What has been good about adult education historically is that it has constantly followed developments. It has not been static or the same since 1968, but it has changed all the time. Now what? Well, adult education must now be even more supportive of new arrivals. A large proportion, about 90%, of those who attend basic education are born in other countries, and adult education must, of course, be a support for getting into society and working life. Adult education should also complement labour market policies and strengthen individual job opportunities. It should also be a policy tool to broaden the supply of skills. However, we must never forget that there are more objectives. Adult education is not just about getting out of work; it is also about strengthening people. The challenge today is that the student group is increasingly heterogeneous and that more people are in need of special support. I therefore support today's proposal, which deals with the overall objectives. The government is very clear that there is no ranking in the overall objectives. The new objective of skills provision is about what it looks like today, but it is not therefore said that it is superior to the other objectives. It's important to remember. The already existing objectives are not lost in importance; they are equally important. So to simplified rating scale. Since we see that grades in Grundvux and Sfi do not matter as a selection function, we should perhaps let the teachers do something else during that time. I think this is a very good proposal. When it comes to giving priority to those with the greatest need for education, it is about what it looks like today. We have a shortage of skilled people, while many have gone through upper secondary education and therefore are not given priority for professional change. We must do something about this; it is very important. Finally, we've got skanvux. It's great that we finally equate and give everyone, no matter who you are, the opportunity to move on in life. We are very much in agreement that there should be the possibility of post-secondary education. I'd like to send that with Per Lodenius. S, C and L have pushed this issue and the other parties in Parliament. It is important that we continue to hold on to this issue. The long, lengthy formation of government and what we are living in right now may be one reason why we have not yet come up with concrete proposals, but we are holding on to this issue. It should be a matter of course that no matter who you are, you should be able to study further. Madam President, I would like We should be proud of our efforts in adult education. It is important to invest money in people being able to change their lives and constantly develop. It must be done carefully, however, and we must keep an eye on the consequences. That's why we keep following up on what's going on. I support the committee's proposal.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-282	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Education, which is based on the proposals put forward by the Government on the table by the Swedish Parliament through the proposal Komvux for strengthening the provision of skills. Madam President, I would like The Liberals are calling for nothing more than the proposal of the majority of committees. We think that the bill generally contains good proposals, but I should use my few minutes in the speaker's chair to take up some parts where we urge the government to continue to monitor developments closely. In the current system, adult education is often treated in a step-by-step manner. It is the form of school you put in a hurry so as not to forget the form or form of school that is not mentioned at all. It is often well spoken, not least from this speaker's chair, that adult education should be a second chance. But the question, which I am also asking myself and my party, is whether we politicians have created sufficient conditions for it to be just a second chance. I think we need to ask ourselves when we debate this bill what more we need to do to make adult education a real way forward and not another dead end for those people who are looking for just a second chance. It is usually said that there is no form of school that is as cyclically sensitive as adult education. In times of crisis, more and more people are seeking adult education in order to cope with a change in their working lives or to move forward. On 30 March, the government, together with the Centers and Liberals, presented measures for regional vocational adult education, university of applied sciences and so on, with increased seats, abolished co-financing requirements and so on. That is good, important and necessary. Madam President, I would like I shall now turn to my contributions and those of the Liberals with regard to the report before us. The bill proposes to remove såvux as a special school form and allow it to become a part of komvux, albeit as a separate track. That's good. The text of the bill describes that particular students lose. That's also the picture I've got. But this picture needs to be deepened and something problematized. Särvux is an extremely important activity, but an activity that places great demands on teachers' ability to see and adapt their activities to each individual. Some students have very severe disabilities, while others have much easier. An important part of the inclusion of skilvy in komvux must be to strengthen the possibilities for those with lighter disabilities to be equipped for the labour market. In particular, there are also students who would like to study more. However, due to rules for activity compensation, they are not allowed to study more than 5%. Otherwise, they have to take study funds, and they are afraid of that because of the risk of failure and of being reimbursable. We also need to do something about this. Madam President, I would like A stronger focus on skills provision is also welcome. The lack of the right skills has long been one of the biggest challenges facing industry. Now the situation has changed, but the challenge of skills provision will remain albeit somewhat different. The dimensioning of education and training should not become a matter of dimensioning for municipal needs, but it is still important for adult education to interact with professional organisations and the local business community. There are indications that regional professional adults have not been able to do so fully. Let it be a lesson now that we continue this work. With regard to selection principles and changes on the table, I would like to say that people who today become unemployed or who wish to change their careers but already have upper secondary education or even higher education have sometimes found it difficult to get into adult education with the current selection principles. It's good that they change. However, I would really like to stress the importance of not forgetting those who are today the main target group of adult education, those who lack upper secondary education and are farthest away from the labour market and the field of education. This change must not mean that they are the last in line for education and that a vulnerable group becomes even more vulnerable. I would also like to emphasise the importance of equivalence throughout the country. There is much talk about it in the youth school but far too little in adult education. It is also a contribution from the Liberals. Madam President, I would like Will the changes proposed in the bill remedy all the challenges facing adult education? I think my answer is no. Is that enough? My answer to this is also no. Is that a step along the way? Hopefully it is.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-297	Madam President, I would like The labour market in our country is changing rapidly. The Coronapandemia further accelerates this transition. Many people are losing their jobs, and we see a pressing need for labour in other professions. Adult education is available for adults to develop in their learning and for lifelong learning to last a lifetime. It is available to those who, at the age of 15, did not know that they wanted to be straighteners or hairdressers. It is available to those who, at the age of 18 to 19, did not pass their upper secondary school education. But it is also available to those who can no longer work as a pilot in the coronapandemine's tracks. It is available for those who want to contribute in the care of the elderly, who see that it is understaffed and who want to read to the assistant nurse. Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating the Government proposal Komvux for strengthening skills provision. Several important steps are being taken here to better adapt adult education and training to the changing labour market of today and to the fact that the new normal will not be to have the same profession in different workplaces during working life, but in fact several different occupations during their working lives. Therefore, the change in the priority given to access to adult education is important. They're supposed to be the ones with the greatest need. It will continue to be, to a large extent, those who have a low level of education with them who have the greatest need. We know that the most important entry ticket to the labour market is to have a secondary school degree or equivalent. However, we will also see the need for adult education through compux for those who have a higher education education degree, perhaps from another country or perhaps in the industry that no longer needs as many employees when digitalisation and AI take over more jobs, or when the conversion due to the coronapendemine or other societal changes leads to whole industries being re-established. Madam President, I would like The proposal to merge particular and comvux provides better opportunities for people who have intellectual disabilities and who, at the same time, are in a position to further train in comvux to do so. We think that is important. The Green Party agrees with what several speakers have said from this speaker's seat, namely that we must continue to work to ensure that those who have attended special education also have opportunities for further studies beyond the upper secondary level. The announcement that we agreed on was about just reviewing this opportunity, and so has the government. The proposals from the government-appointed investigation have been presented to the government and are now being prepared in the Government Office. But we all know that the workload at the moment due not least to the coronapandemine is high at the Ministry of Education. This is because Sweden has a long and proud tradition of educating people from economic crises. Sweden is a successful example within the OECD in terms of adult education. We are good at giving people a second chance, a third chance and a fourth chance and developing as people and being able to participate in society and the labour market. Madam President, I would like In these words, I support the proposal in the report that develops adult education in order to better adapt to the changing needs we see in the labour market.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-306	Madam President, I would like We are currently living in a reality where we primarily discuss the corona virus. That's the big question, isn't it? But there are also other issues which are bubbling up a little in the debate and which, as we can see, have not taken a break in reality despite the ongoing coronapandemia. Unfortunately, crime is one of the areas where we can see that shootings and explosions have in no way taken a break in recent months. On the contrary, they have increased. The Rimfrost operation does not appear to have meant that blasts and shootings have decreased, but, as I said, they have increased over the last six months. Of course, this is problematic in many ways. We are living at a time when crime, so to speak, has changed its shape. It is a development that is not entirely new, but has been going on for some time. One such thing is that crime has unfortunately spread further down the ages. People start committing crimes all the time. When you are 17 - 18 years old, you often have a long criminal career behind you. We also see criminal gangs taking ever greater precautions. Crime is becoming more and more advanced. It is prepared to go very far to withhold information and to make it difficult for law enforcement authorities to clear up the crimes that have been committed. This is, of course, problematic in many different ways. It impairs the ability to clear up crimes. It makes it more difficult to stop crime on time. It also makes it more difficult to provide victims with the redress they deserve. The bill is about secret interception, something that asks many questions at its head. This applies not least to the privacy of the individual, who should always be taken very seriously. At the same time, it must be ensured that the judiciary has sufficient resources to clear up the crimes committed and prevent new crimes from being committed. We Moderates welcome in many ways this proposal for a simpler procedure. It is foolish and unnecessary for this important work to be burdened with rather unnecessary bureaucracy. We are convinced that it is possible to simplify the work without compromising the important privacy issues. We support the orientation of the bill. Having said that, Madam President, we believe that there are in fact opportunities to go a few steps further and that this is justified in the light of the criminality and serious developments that we are currently seeing in society. This concerns the reservation that we have submitted to the Committee on Justice. Instead of attaching a decision on coercive measures to a specific telephone number, it is a question of making it a specific person. The background to this is what I mentioned at the outset. Criminal gangs are becoming more and more skilled at working in the hidden and difficult for law enforcement agencies and authorities to clear up the crimes. It is standard today that many different telephone numbers and equipment are used to make this difficult. It is therefore a little unnecessary that a decision is required for each individual telephone number. It would have been much better, simpler and less bureaucratic if, instead, it could be linked to a specific person. I note that it is not just us Moderates who have raised this issue. Other parties here in Parliament have also done so. But above all, law enforcement authorities themselves point to this in their answers. Prosecution authorities did so already as far back as 2015. If this change became a reality, it would be a simplification. It would be easier to follow the criminal networks and prosecute them for the crimes they have committed and interrupt their criminal activities. We also believe that a measure such as this would be proportionate to any minor loss of legal certainty that might arise. We think that this is a reasonable balance that we have to strike here. In view of this, I would like, on behalf of the Moderates, to endorse the reservation on the matter.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-316	Madam President, I would like We are debating the matter of a simplified procedure for certain decisions on secret interception. Just as the previous speaker described it, this is a work that is necessary in the light of the social development that we have had and that we still have. The criminal networks and gangs exist on pretty good terms in our country. It is therefore justified that political positions should be moved forward in order to better frame people and bind them to the crimes committed by the gangs. The Swedish democrats have long had a different view of the balance between the breach of privacy that secret coercive measures constitute and the effectiveness that the rule of law must have in order to combat these crimes. The distinction between the Swedish Democrats and the Red Green Government has been quite clear. On many issues, we have advocated more far-reaching measures in order to frame gangs. This is, for example, about the reduced limit for the use of secret coercive measures. The government here has a rigid view of the balance between the invasion of integrity on the one hand and society's ability to fight crime on the other. It is also a question of using surplus information. We have had comments on this. The law enforcement authorities can sit on evidence of very integrity-defying sex crimes through the secret interceptions that have been made. But they can't use this evidence to frame people for these crimes. We believe, Madam President, that the government has always struck a balance in favour of criminal gangs in the choice between privacy violations on the one hand and society's ability to fight crime on the other. I think we are justified in our criticism when we can see that the criminal gangs manage to advance their positions, despite, for example, Operation Rimfrost, which has now been going on for six months. As previous speakers also mentioned, the report contains a reservation that takes into account what consultation bodies have indicated by the police, the Customs and the Security Service. They want to be able to link the decision on secret coercive measures to a person rather than to a telephone number, address or similar. The reason is to make it easier for law enforcement authorities to act against the criminal environment. Against this background, the Swedish democrats are prepared to consult the consultative bodies which have spoken in this direction on this point. That is why, Madam President, I am in favour of the reservation contained in the report.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-323	Madam President, I would like Sweden should be a safe country to live in regardless of whether you live in the countryside, in a city or in a suburb, and the police's role in crime prevention is central. Today, the Swedish police are under a lot of strain. The challenges of combating mass crime, housing offences, serious organised crime and gang crime remain. The fact that the police come when needed and have the ability to prosecute crimes and prosecute criminals is crucial for us to be able to maintain law and order in society. As an individual, you should always be able to trust that the police have the resources to carry out their tasks – to prevent, prevent and prosecute crimes. In today's society, criminal networks are often very aware of the limitations of police coercive measures, and they exploit these restrictions to the maximum. Our starting point is to make it more difficult for criminal actors. Today, terrorists and organised crime are using various forms of communication, and if they are not accessible, the crime becomes enormously more difficult to solve. Madam President, I would like The government has submitted a proposal for a simplified procedure in the event of a secret interception to Parliament. It is proposed that the court should not have to hold a meeting when a new authorisation for the secret interception of a pre-paid card needs to be decided. The Christian Democrats want the judiciary to be given appropriate means of coercion to prosecute crimes and therefore support a simplification of the possibility of listening to anonymous pre-paid cards. The Swedish judicial system should not be tied up by the fact that the legislation lags behind technological developments. However, we object to the government's assessment that interception decisions should not be linked to persons instead of telephone numbers, addresses or certain electronic communications equipment. The Christian Democrats share, among other things, the objections of the Political Authority and the Customs Authority in the referrals received, which advocate that the coercive measures be linked to persons instead of places. Madam President, I would like In connection with the bill on secret data reading, which was discussed earlier this year, three referral bodies – the Police Authority, the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Customs Agency – advocated a solution where the permit is linked to one person. Such a regime would, according to the authorities, have such advantages from a law enforcement perspective as to outweigh the disadvantages. We find it problematic that criminals put in systems to switch numbers and phones in order to avoid wiretaps and surveillance. As we argued for this spring, we want surveillance through secret data reading to be linked to people instead of places, because criminals can quickly change both communication tools and meeting places. Then the whole point of surveillance disappears, and new conditions do not have time to be collected in time. Madam President, I would like We protect privacy and believe that any action in law enforcement must be proportionate to the loss of legal certainty and privacy. At the same time, we can see that crime has changed in recent years and that the most serious crime has become increasingly ruthless. It is important that the judiciary has adequate means of coercion to prosecute these crimes. Today, however, there are several shortcomings, and we believe that law enforcement authorities need better tools to use secret coercive measures. The government's legislative proposal simplifies the use of secret coercive measures. That's a good thing. At the same time, the proposal is unnecessarily bureaucratic, and we believe that there is room for further simplification. There is reason to object to the balance that the government has made. The work would be simplified and made more effective by linking a decision on coercive measures to a person rather than to telephone numbers, addresses or electronic communication equipment. In this way, it would be easier to tap calls on phones with anonymous prepaid cards. It is also something that the law enforcement authorities have pointed out in their referrals. We believe that such a measure would be proportionate to the minor loss of legal certainty and privacy protection that may arise. The bill also notes that the number of authorisations granted for secret interception of electronic communications has increased. During 2018, about three decisions were made on the secret interception per bugged person. Linking the permit to a person would significantly reduce the number of decisions and, therefore, in the context of a weighted assessment, we believe that authorisation for secret interception of electronic communications should be linked to a person. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that we Christian Democrats support the common reservation on this matter.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-334	Madam President, I would like The report we are debating today is about making it easier to take decisions on the secret interception of electronic communications and thus to achieve a more effective fight against crime. This is another important product of the government in its efforts to strengthen and sharpen the tools of society in the fight against serious organised crime. With today's decision, we will be able to reduce the gap that may arise when criminals change and use multiple numbers or equipment. Faster decisions, and thus faster connection, provide a more effective fight against crime. Madam President, I would like Access to data from electronic communications is often crucial for police and prosecutors to investigate serious crime. Such information may answer important questions as to who has been in contact with whom and where suspected persons have been found. Information on electronic communications may also be of paramount importance for intelligence activities aimed at detecting, preventing and preventing criminal activities. The government is therefore actively working on issues in this area. Last year, new rules on data storage were introduced, and recently the Secret Data Reading Act came into force. On Monday, the investigation was also submitted which, like our election promise, proposes rules on an obligation to register information on pre-paid subscriptions. The ability of police and other law enforcement authorities to intercept and monitor suspects is a very important part of the fight against serious crime. Madam President, I would like In criminal circles, it is common for anonymous sim cards to be used in mobile phones and for both cards and phones to be replaced in order to avoid and complicate interception. Every time such a switch takes place, a new coercive decision on the secret interception of electronic communications must be issued, and the court must hold a meeting. The current system is resource-intensive and not efficient enough, which we now want to change. The simplified procedure that we are now proposing may be used if there is already an existing authorisation for interception, i.e. if a court hearing has been held, and if the notification concerns the same person and is based on the same circumstances as the previous authorisation. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to touch briefly on the question of why the permit should not be linked to one person. A court hearing the link between the number, address, equipment and the person to be bugged is a fundamental guarantee of legal certainty. In our view, the efficiency gains that could result from a system whereby authorisations for secret interception of electronic communications are linked to a person rather than to a telephone number, address or electronic communications equipment are disproportionate to the loss of legal certainty and privacy protection that would arise. In the case of secret coercive measures, issues of effectiveness must always be balanced against the protection of personal integrity. The proposal that is on the table with Parliament means that the procedure is made more efficient, while not compromising the protection of personal privacy. In short, it would be a good idea to introduce an opportunity to link the secret interception of electronic communications to a person. The question of the link between persons and coercive measures has been the subject of consideration in many legislative work on secret coercive measures. Since the mid-1990s, the link between a person and coercive measures has been discussed, and a link with a person has always been dismissed with regard to the protection of personal integrity. That is how we think it should continue to be. I therefore support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-340	Madam President, I would like Combating crime, long-term and sustainable, is one of the most important challenges we face. We need to wear down the criminal structures that have gained a foothold in too large a part of our elongated country. We have to make it smart-- we have to make it smarter than the criminals. Deciding on a simpler procedure for secret interception is a smart step. The question is, is that enough? Today, authorisation is granted for the secret interception of telephone numbers and e-mail addresses if the penalty value is over two years. Decisions are made after the Court has met. Public representative shall be appointed, and it is the prosecutor who applies. This can be done according to the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Preventive Act and the Special Alien Control Act. But, Madam President, the problem is that technology has run away from reality. It is, as we have heard and as we know, super easy to change e-mail address or mobile number from one day to another. This has been coined by criminals to make it more difficult for police forces with several law enforcement authorities. The court must meet again for each application for a new telephone number, and precious time is wasted. The proposal is therefore that the Court can decide on new permits without the Court holding a sitting – quite rightly. Madam President, I would like What else is there to wish for? There are suggestions in follow-up motions and from some consultation bodies that the authorisation for secret interception should be linked to a person rather than to a mobile number or other electronic equipment. At first sight, it feels less complicated and in every way more logical to link these coercive measures to a person rather than to a telephone number or address. This view has also been advocated by the Center Party in the past. At the same time, we feel that we must listen to all the investigations that have been carried out and to what the overwhelming majority of referrals say, namely that the current technology and other circumstances, given, are not justifiable from the point of view of integrity and legal certainty. Our legislation must be robust and legally secure. Madam President, I would like It has been found that post-investigation investigations arrive at purpose, needs and proportionality principles that do not function satisfactorily with individual-related permits. This has been mentioned, among other things, in the work on the Secret Camera Surveillance Act and the Secret Coercives Act as well as in the work on experimental legislation on secret data reading. The latter will provide far-reaching opportunities for different law enforcement practices. Instead, the various investigations and legislative proposals have led to different forms of simpler procedures, as is the proposal now. I mentioned that some consultation bodies recommend that decisions on secret interception should be linked to a person, but many, such as the Prosecutor's Office, have also rejected it for reasons of privacy, among other things. Madam President, I would like With today's proposal, the court can decide on a renewed authorisation for secret interception if it concerns the same conditions as an existing permit – for example, in terms of time and person – without the court meeting if it turns out that, for example, the suspect starts to use a new telephone number. The Center Party supports this proposal, but does not say that it is enough for all time. Technology will run before reality again and again. With regard, for example, to the search of houses in cloud services, it may turn out that we need to re-evaluate this in order to access materials on servers in other countries. The Center Party is always ready to look further at how law enforcement capabilities can be strengthened while upholding the rule of law. I support the proposal in the report.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-351	Madam President, I would like We have today to debate the Committee on Justice's report on arms issues. I would like to begin by pointing out that we are in favour of all our reservations, but I only ask for the approval of reservation 9, concerning the exceptional reasons of the Arms Act. Madam President, I would like Many are the arrangements that have had to be cancelled or postponed due to the pandemic we are in the middle of. One in the multitude of these events is Stockholm Criminology Symposium, which would take place in early June. A significant part of the arrangement is the delivery of The Stockholm Prize in Criminology. The prize has been awarded since 2006 and is described as the world's largest and most prestigious award in criminology. Maybe it's criminology's equivalent to an Oscar. The prize, awarded by the Foundation for the Stockholm Prize in Criminology in collaboration with Stockholm University and the Swedish Crime Prevention Council, goes to anyone or those who have made outstanding achievements in criminological research or who have applied it in practice to reduce crime and promote human rights. This year the prize was awarded to Philip J Cook and Franklin E Zimring, both active in the United States, for their evidence-based research into the importance of arms laws. According to the jury, this year's prize winners have developed important methods to demonstrate and understand the crucial role of access to firearms in relation to the number of deaths. They have proven convincingly that the claim that availability of firearms would not affect the volume of damage is false. We are all facing a major challenge, both globally and nationally. How do we reduce the number of murders, suicides and accidents caused by firearms? In 2016, more than a quarter of a million people died in the world as a result of gun-related injuries. In Sweden we have seen a sharp increase, from 68 cases in 2012 to 108 cases in 2018. It is a development that I am convinced that we all believe must be broken and should be broken. That is why, Madam President, I am pleased that there is a great deal of consensus in the Swedish Parliament on the work against illegal weapons. Already in 2010, the Social Democrats pushed for a reduction in the number of illegal weapons. At that time, we, together with the Skåne police, demanded that the minimum penalty for serious gun crimes be raised to provide the police with better tools to combat this crime through, for example, telephone tapping. At the same time, we pushed for special criminal liability for those who illegally store firearms for others. It was therefore good and necessary to tighten up both in 2014 and 2017, not least to tighten the penalty for illegal possession of arms to two years. In practice, this means that if you go out on the street with an illegal weapon, you won't be home for at least two years. As I said, this was good, but it is not enough. It is therefore positive that the government, as we can read in today's Aftonbladet, will shortly be presenting a Council of Law referral that is taking further steps in the fight against illegal weapons. We are talking about further punitive measures for weapons offences and crimes related to blasts. The draft law will include the introduction of new crimes and the strengthening of penalties for arms smuggling and the smuggling of explosives. That is, in principle, what is being called for in the committee's unanimous declaration concerning its own criminal classification for arms smuggling. The new legislation can hopefully come into force before the end of the year. Madam President, I would like I'm buying the premise that serious organized crime does not use legal weapons. I also buy the premise that terrorists do not use legal weapons. When it comes to legal weapons, it is rather the lone wolf that frightens me, like Peter Mangs in Malmö or as in the terror act in Hanau in February. So when it comes to legal weapons, it is not directly organised crime that frightens, and certainly not the law-abiding hunter or sportsman. The hunt is a large popular movement and an important part of Sweden's game conservation. The scorer is an important part of the Swedish sports movement and the voluntary defence movement, which is a crucial part of the Swedish total defence. Madam President, I would like The issue of extending the arms dealer's data has recently been investigated in the current Notice on licensing management in the event of a change of arms. The investigator concluded that a transfer of arms clearance to arms dealers could not be carried out with certainty. Instead, the investigator proposed to streamline the licensing process and shorten the processing times by automating the licensing process of the Political Authority in uncomplicated arms cases. These proposals are now referred and are currently being prepared in the Government Office. As far as the concept of exceptional reasons in the Arms Act is concerned, we believe that in the case of fully automatic and single-handed weapons, special restrictive measures are warranted in the granting of permits. A single-handed weapon is the type of weapon most likely to be used for purposes other than the intended one. The purpose of the temporary licences is to continuously monitor compliance with the conditions for authorisation with regard to the possession of particularly arduous or particularly dangerous weapons. It is therefore not only the care of the holder but also his need for the weapon that is regularly being tested. It is justified to verify that the licence holder continues to meet the requirements required to minimise the number of one-handed weapons. Madam President, I would like We do not believe that the government's work on implementing the 2017 amending directive in Swedish law gives cause to worry about a so-called over-implementing, just as the government does not overimplement other EU acts. However, we do not find reason to reserve ourselves against the announcement in question, because we also do not think that the introduction of the directive into Swedish law should unnecessarily make it more difficult for law-abiding hunters and shooters.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-363	Madam President, I would like Today, we are once again debating how we can make the country's hunters and sportsmen easier and, at the same time, facilitate the work of the police. The report contains eight announcements, so-called missions to the government, and 22 reservations. On 19 June 2019, i.e. almost a year ago, a large majority in the Riksdag decided that the Government would implement the following seven announcements: Madam President, I would like Now it's almost a year. Has anyone noticed that the government has done anything on these issues? Yes, possibly on a subject raised by Mr Sandell. Has anyone noticed that the Government has done something that was decided by the Riksdag and that the Government would implement? The answer is very simple: the government has not done anything, and it has not implemented what the Riksdag ordered. But, Madam President, that is not enough. Just over five years ago, on 26 March 2015, the Riksdag took a majority decision that meant that the Government would work out a proposal to establish a new game agency in Sweden to deal with hunting and game conservation issues. Now it has been over five years since the decision, but nothing has happened. The government is still sitting on its hands. This is, of course, both negligent and totally unacceptable. Madam President, I would like One thing is absolutely certain: this government has no pace of work. It ignores the implementation of Parliament's decisions and delays the work. In just over two years' time, the government's employer, the Swedish people, will be able to decide whether to maintain this hopelessly paralysed government or to replace it with a new, more powerful government. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, we have over 600 000 legal gun owners engaged in hunting, shooting or gathering. Sweden's legal arms owners have the hardest demands in terms of education, examinations, storage and suitability and have constant control. Every gun owner in Sweden is checked daily. Think, Madam President, if the government had had such control of the criminals in Sweden! Today, our hunters and sportsmen have to wait unreasonably long for their licenses when they buy a new weapon or exchange their weapon. This work takes time, costs money, takes off the police resources and hours of work and makes it difficult for the country's hunters and sportsmen to have their weapons ready until the hunt begins or for training and competition. Madam President, I would like In this report, a clear majority is proposing a number of different proposals that would facilitate the handling of legal weapons for the country's hunters and sportsmen. Do I need to point out that, of course, the S-government does not want to implement these proposals, but rather reserves itself against them? After all, the Social Democratic Government has done exactly the opposite of what was said in the electoral movement since it took office. Instead, it has done everything to try to make it even more difficult for the country's legal hunters and sportsmen – of course eagerly imposed by the Green Party. Madam President, I would like Instead of doing what was decided by the Parliament, by June last year, the government has put a great deal of effort into over-implementing the EU weapons directive. When it did not succeed, a new proposal was made to try to regulate the magazines. But this proposal was also put in the trash basket by Parliament. Madam President, I would like This government continues to hunt the country's legal hunters and sportsmen. It clearly wants the police to spend more time on administering this. But the Swedish police should not sit at the desk and handle licenses. The Swedish police will hunt criminals and put them in lock and key. It would be much better if the Swedish government had instead focused on pursuing crime and serious crime and stopped hunting the country's hunters and sportsmen. Madam President, I would like In this report, a large majority in Parliament's Committee on Justice has once again supported new announcements. There's eight of them. Madam President, I would like The first new announcement is about a new crime classification for arms smuggling. We therefore want to clarify and tighten up the legislation on arms smuggling so that we can stop the illegal introduction of weapons into the country. We heard in the previous speech that the government has now listened to the opposition and started work and will make a proposal in this direction. Madam President, I would like We want to investigate and carry out a transfer of licence management from the police to the new game agency. If this is possible, it would reduce police work and thus free up resources for greater law enforcement. Once again, we propose a review of the processing times. Today, they are unacceptably long and create problems for hunters, shooters and arms dealers. Once again, we are proposing a review of arms legislation. It is a previous announcement of June 2019 which is repeated in this report. With regard to the EU directive, we have once again been clear that there should be the least possible impact on the country's hunters, shooters and collectors. Madam President, I would like We want to remove the time-limited licenses. Today they are only creating extra jobs and red tape both for the police and for the country's sportsmen. Today, the police handle some 3 000 – 4 000 such cases a year. We want to remove the exceptional reasons and, instead, clearly specify the requirements. It would also facilitate the work of the licensing authority. Madam President, I would like We also have an announcement on licensing management in the event of a change of arms. Being able to change their weapons directly with the arms dealer would reduce red tape and processing times. If you get there with a shotgun and want to trade it into another shotgun or possibly switch to another weapon within your gun wardrobe, this should be possible. This reduces the length of proceedings. Today, the police handle about 70 000 - 80 000 arms licensing cases. This could be reduced if hunters and sportsmen were able to change their weapons directly with the arms dealer as a simpler notification case. Madam President, I would like Another proposal that we Moderates and Centers raise and for which we hope to get even greater support for the next time is reservation 22, which concerns the supervision of shooting ranges. It's done today by the police. This needs to be reviewed and possibly moved to another supervisory authority. The Wildlife Authority could be such an authority. Madam President, I would like Together with the seven announcements made by Parliament last June, these eight new announcements mean that the government has now received fifteen announcements over the past year. This needs to be dealt with urgently. The fact that after just over five years the government has not implemented the introduction of a new wildlife agency is totally unacceptable. The fact that no investigations have even been set up or any proposals made on previous announcements is a matter of criticism. Madam President, I would like Although a large majority here in Parliament decided a year ago to abolish the permit requirement for silencers, nothing has happened. Instead, the Social Democratic Government uses the police's limited resources and time to administer some 15 000 silencers per year. Everyone understands that these hours and resources of the police would have been more useful if they had been used to pursue serious crime in the streets and squares of the country rather than chasing the country's legal hunters and sportsmen. Madam President, I would like It is remarkable that we have such a passive government, which clearly slows down and ignores Parliament's announcements. The fact that the government clearly fails to implement what Parliament has decided is unacceptable. Of course, the Government will implement what is decided by the Riksdag, and of course it will take place within a reasonable time. Instead, what the Social Democratic Ministers promised before the elections on simplification has resulted in a series of proposals for deterioration for the country's hunters and sportsmen. Fortunately, the Riksdag has put its foot down and placed the Social Democrats' proposals in the trash. Madam President, I would like I also note that there is no one from the government present at the debate in this House today to explain their slow work, and the Members of Parliament representing the government in this House tend to avoid taking the debate. Madam President, I would like If this is to continue, and the government does not listen to Parliament's decisions, the opposition will of course have to have a discussion about moving forward with the proposals directly in this House. Instead of making announcements, laws can be passed directly here in Parliament without interference from the government. This is quite possible, Madam President, and will of course have to be considered when the government seems to be ignoring the implementation of its work. Madam President, I would like I have a few calls for the government to set up the Wildlife Agency immediately! It is five years since the decision was taken. Remove the time-limited weapons licenses and the extraordinary reasons! Initiate an investigation into weapons law immediately! I can help the government with both the directives for the investigation and the names of the people who need to be included in it. Remove the condition requirement for silencers! Madam President, I would like Now the government must wake up and start working with and implementing what the Riksdag has decided on. Finally, Madam President, I would like to thank the Committee on Legal Affairs for its good cooperation, which this time resulted in eight new announcements. I would also like to ask for the approval of reservation 22.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-394	Madam President, I would like We are debating arms issues – issues that have been contained in a report of our own for some years. In the past, the arms issues were under the police and were embedded in that report. As more parties have increased their commitment to arms issues, we now have a separate debate on them. I believe that this is necessary, not least in the light of all the announcements made by the Parliament to the Government on simplifying the rules on arms licences. I amused myself a little bit by trying to look back at how developments have been in these matters over the past few years. Five years ago, the Swedish Democrats were the sole party here in the Riksdag to propose clear simplifications of legal ownership of arms. I was attacked by the Moderate spokesperson on the issues, who believed that an expanded arms wardrobe would increase the arming in criminal environments. In fact, I was shocked by that attack. Fortunately, however, the Moderates, as we can see here today, have had a positive development on these issues. We also have a broad consensus in several parties in the opposition that simplifications of arms rules are needed and justified. The fears we are hearing here from the Joakim Sandell of the Social Democrats are unjustified. There is no justification for concern about, for example, leakage, which is being attempted to make it look like, could happen. The tough rules that exist today are sufficient; we do not need to have recurring five-year licences for single-handed and automatic weapons. There are synchronised records, and the police are immediately alerted to whether people are unfit and able to take action accordingly. This is a bureaucratic problem that is causing trouble for decent people in the country. As others have said in the debate, the focus must be on criminal environments and illegal weapons. But there is, of course, opposition from social democrats and globalist parties who do not want to take action against the borders that are open to the import of illegal weapons that provide the criminal environment with a fairly large amount of violent capital. We have seen far too many tests in this country. Of course, we have also proposed more stringent penalties for the illegal weapons and the weapons crimes committed in criminal settings. I personally advocated in 2014 – 2015 more severe punishment for serious gun crimes – a punishment that was then one year in prison. We could then see an escalation in the criminal environments where illegal weapons were used. But it wasn't to kill each other, because it wasn't normal at the beginning of the 10th century. You shot to threaten, and you shot to hurt each other. However, in the escalation that we could then see, we felt that measures had to be taken there and then to prevent more serious developments. The Social Democrats at the time felt that the legislation was balanced as it was, and the escalation between the criminal environments was allowed to proceed. You could get out of jail if you were caught in the act with guns in the city. Only in 2017, when it was normal to execute each other in criminal settings with firearms, did the government come up with a bill to tighten the penalty for serious gun crimes to prevent random arming in criminal environments. But it was already too late. By then, there would have been so many murders and violations in the criminal environment that an escalation of violence would in principle be impossible. We will not be able to see this reduction in 10, 15 or 20 years, no matter how much we tighten the penalties now. The right measures have been taken, but far too late, by the Red-Green Government. That's the price you have to pay when you have a meek government that has the wrong focus on every single issue and delivers too little every time. Then you get a development that goes in the wrong direction. During Rimfrost we have seen that the shootings, shootings and murders in criminal environments continue despite the increase in police presence. And why would they stop doing that? They have a reputation of their own. They act that way; this is how psychology works in criminal environments. You can't suddenly just come up and slap another criminal when you're in the process of redressing a murder of someone in your own criminal environment. Murder meets with murder in criminal settings. When such a culture has been established, as the Social Democrats have allowed to happen in Sweden, it is too late to come up with stricter penalties for gun crimes. We welcome this development because we believe it is important that we put these individuals in prison. But, of course, we think it is too late because it will not hinder further development. As previous speakers, Mrs Bergheden, have well explained, we have repeated proposals for announcements in the report. We hear from the Social Democrats the motives for the opposition that exists to the proposals, and they tell us why the government does not respond to these announcements from the Riksdag. With regard to resistance, however, we must thank the Government for its clarity: it does not intend to respond to the announcements that Parliament has addressed to the Government when it comes to limited-term licences, when it comes to extended arms wardrobes and when it comes to the other announcements we have addressed about silencers and so on. This is a message that is important to us in opposition. Then there is reason for us to advance our positions in our work in order to actually satisfy what a majority in Parliament wants. The Swedish democrats are prepared to do just that. If more parties are prepared to do so, we will stand by to help, for example, legislate from the Riksdag, if the government refuses to meet the parliamentary majority in the demands that we have. That, of course, will also be the question that I am going to ask more parties in this House: whether they are prepared to join forces with the Swedish Democrats and – as we heard earlier – the Moderates in legislating from the Riksdag when the government ignores the announcements that we have repeatedly addressed to the government after today's debate. Finally, Madam President, I would like to express my support for a reservation on an issue in which I believe it is justified to address a repeated announcement to the government, but for which we did not receive a majority in Parliament this year. It is a question of the extended arms curtain, which I assume there is also justified opposition from the government to implementing it. I support this reservation and support all the proposals for announcements that we have been involved in in this report.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-412	Madam President, I would like So we stand here again and debate these issues – for which time in order I do not know straight away. I had to think for a moment about what I would devote my six minutes to in this debate. Everything has already been said, several times over. From day one, the Center Party has been clear about how we feel about the various proposals for the deterioration of law-abiding arms owners put on Parliament's table. We have also taken a lot of initiatives to improve. One of our proposals that I am particularly proud of, and for which we now seem to have a majority in the Swedish Parliament, is that the issue of arms licences should be placed in an expert authority that can work up competence and efficiency in a way that meets the expectations we can have for effective management. The police have hugely important tasks to devote their valuable time to. Let them do so, rather than pondering whether the appearance of a particular weapon makes it more or less suitable for hunting! Another suggestion made by the Center Party is that arms smuggling should become a crime of its own, just as drug smuggling, for example, is a crime of its own, not one in the mass of all other smuggling crimes. It creates an opportunity to have one's own scale of punishment and take the serious crime particularly seriously. The most important thing, however, is, I believe, that we are taking a fresh look at the arms legislation in Sweden – that we are achieving a coherent, uniform, effective, proportionate and legally secure regulatory framework for how we handle weapons in Sweden. Arms legislation, like a lot of other legislation, has become a patchwork that is increasingly difficult to interpret and which is becoming less and less legally secure and less effective. It is important that we do this. There is a need for coherent legislation for weapons in Sweden. Some may be surprised by the interest in arms issues. Now most legislators have become aware of how important the issue is for those directly affected, all of Sweden's owners of legal weapons. In fact, however, the issue is also important from the point of view of principle – or ideological, if you will. It is, as in so many other cases, about the relationship between the citizen and the state. If you are as liberal as I am, you are happy to lean against the principle that everyone should have as much freedom as possible, as long as this freedom does not push away the freedom of anyone else. Sometimes it is difficult to draw boundaries, but I would still say that this is not a difficult matter. Do you think that individuals should own weapons, or don't you think? For me, the answer is clear yes. Then we must strive to create an effective, effective and legally secure regulatory framework for the exercise of this right. That is not the case today. It hasn't been like that, and it's just gotten worse lately. Some kind of catalyst for decay became the EU weapons directive. As a way for some politicians to show action after the acts of terror in Paris, they went to work – fast and wrong, aimed at the wrong kind of weapon and the wrong kind of gun owner. The legal weapons are not the problem. The law-abiding gun owners are not the ones to be squeezed. Yet this is exactly what happened. Yet this is exactly what is happening. And this continues to happen, although a large majority in the Swedish Parliament has clearly expressed what the represented people's will wants. At first, it felt almost a bit silly to reserve when we already had so many suggestions for announcements in place, but I changed my mind. It is clear that we must put pressure on the government to act in accordance with the decisions that have been democratically taken for quite some time now. Madam President, I would like Leadership in progress is easy. But it is in adversity leadership tested for real. It takes strength and determination to admit wrong, back the band, redo and do the right thing. That is exactly what the government needs to do. You've had the chance several times in the past year, but nothing has happened. How many times should we announce what Parliament wants before it goes in? How many years will we have to wait for a better and more effective, legally secure and effective regulations for weapons in Sweden? I do not intend to endorse any of our reservations when we have such a broad majority on so much in this area. It is a good report and I would like to support the committee's proposal. Much thought and hard work has been done by several parties to make the law better in the field of weapons. Many of the proposals will increase safety in Sweden. Now they are to be implemented. It's time to deliver.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-428	Madam President, I would like I noted that Johan Hedin repeats this by saying that repeated announcements are important in a situation where we have a government that is very reluctant to implement what the Riksdag has announced. We have a number of repeated announcements to which the Center Party has acceded, precisely on the grounds that it is important to put pressure on the government with repeated announcements. However, we also have an announcement from last year on the extension of the arms wardrobe in which, for some reason this year, the Center Party has chosen not to do exactly what is being said in the speaker's chair, namely to address a repeated announcement to the government to put pressure on the government on that particular issue. I would like to know why the Center Party has chosen not to support the reservation on the extension of the arms wardrobe. With the support of the Center Party, it would have been a repeated announcement. There would have been a point in the Minutes on this issue, and the government would have been further ashamed. That's my one question. I also have another question, but we can take this first: why does the Center Party not choose to join in order to create more announcements to the government on arms issues where it has shown justified opposition?
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-431	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Adam Marttinen for the opportunity to clarify the position of the Center Party on this issue. Of course, we stand by our position on the issue of increased arms wardrobe. As I mentioned in my speech, I did not intend to support one of the reservations because I thought it was redundant, superfluous, when we sit with them already as it is. Now, however, I chose to do so in order to increase political pressure and show the government that we are serious. I might as well have done so on this issue too, but I chose not to do so at this point. But for the sake of clarity, we are still behind an expanded arms wardrobe.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-434	Madam President, I would like This is exactly what gets a little limp, I think. It justifies a principled approach that repeated announcements are important to put pressure on the government, and then Then it becomes a little limp in the signals to the government about what the Riksdag thinks is urgent from the very principled standpoint. But okay, we're where we are. Surely we must be pleased that last year the Center Party chose to put pressure on the government by an announcement on the issue of increased arms wardrobe. My second question was to be asked precisely in the light of what we have heard from Joakim Sandell in the speaker's chair on behalf of the government. After all, the government has a very justified opposition to implementing our announcements on this issue. Is the Center Party, if the government refuses to implement these announcements as it says here, prepared, together with the Swedish Democrats and other parties in the Committee on Justice, to legislate on these things from the Riksdag in order for them to become reality, or is the Center Party not prepared to do so? Would you rather rely on a reluctant government to implement these announcements?
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-437	Madam President, I would like Legislation is a noble and difficult art. One of the major problems with Swedish arms legislation, and a lot of other legislation for that matter, is that it is a patchwork. Governments deliver, guilty and sometimes, on announcements, but when you do, you lack a clear picture of what you want with the various issues. One of the most important points of this, which I also mentioned in my speech, is that we are making a fresh start on arms issues so that we create a uniform, unambiguous, effective, effective and legally secure framework for arms. We have every constitutional opportunity to make law in the Riksdag, but the Riksdag is not rigged to do so. I think it would be much better if a skilled investigator could take on this delicate task – with a good reference group in which all parties are represented – to do just the new thing I mentioned. I believe that this person has a better chance of succeeding and creating this very uniform, effective, clear and legally secure regulatory framework than if we shoot from the hips in Parliament. I have also said that many have come up with good ideas. But all these ideas must each be linked to the problems that we want to solve. The wide-spreading of hail on these issues is not appropriate for the creation of effective and good legislation.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-440	Madam President, I would like Over the past few years, we have seen how gross and gang-related violence has linked a grip on increasingly large parts of our country. One of the most important tasks of our society is to guarantee the security of our citizens, and that is why the fight against this crime must be intensified by strong laws and measures. Serious violence has reached historically high levels. Shootings and bombings are no longer unusual but often occur in news reports and are even something that many people have to adapt their everyday lives to. According to the police, the situation is lacking internationally. Criminal gangs make a living from drug sales and other crime and are described as both more aggressive and violent than before. In today's debate, we are dealing with arms issues, and I note that, instead of making it more difficult for gang criminals to commit violent crimes with illegal weapons, the government is in many cases targeting the Swedish hunting and shooting movement by making it more difficult for those who legally own and handle a weapon. Madam President, I would like I note that the committee has gathered a majority on eight announcements to the government. We Christian Democrats believe, of course, that effective efforts are needed to tackle the possession of weapons and explosives by criminals, but we believe that this can happen without creating further problems for ordinary hunters and sportsmen. These ordinary people should not have to suffer that society should adapt to what its most destructive forces through gang crime do. For us Christian Democrats, it is obvious not to lump together hunters and sportsmen with those who behave the worst in society. Tougher action against gang crime needs strong measures to ensure the security of our society, but at the same time it should not be made more difficult but rather simplify the lives of law-abiding and responsible arms owners. It is an approach which also the majority of the Committee on Justice shares with the committee's announcement. The over-implementing of the Weapons Directive or other unnecessary regulation that makes it difficult for law-abiding arms owners are not the means of putting an end to serious crime, since instead of facing the problem, they mainly affect law-abiding hunters and sportsmen. In today's Sweden there are a large number, about 600 000, registered gun owners. The recent study showed that during the ten - year period of measuring the use of weapons in serious crimes, l, 2 weapons per year came from hunting and sporting. This fact shows that other measures are needed to tackle gang crime than to make it more difficult and unnecessarily regulated. There are ways to regulate, but the needs of hunters and sportsmen should also be met. Madam President, I would like I would like briefly to touch on some of the announcements. The Parliament has addressed several announcements to the government to tighten the penalties for arms smuggling. Last time it happened about a year ago, when, according to the announcement, it would also be considered whether the smuggling of weapons should be broken out into a specific criminal provision. It is positive that an investigator has made such a proposal, but it is important that the proposal also leads to a legislative proposal for the Riksdag to take a position on. There is therefore reason to address a further announcement to the Government. Madam President, I would like In 2015, the Riksdag decided to establish a new authority responsible for hunting and game management. This decision has so far been refused by the government. That is regrettable for a number of reasons. One of the reasons is that it has removed the possibility of transferring licence management from the Police Authority to the new authority. For example, in 2015, 64 900 arms licence applications were submitted to the police, and the difference is great in how long it takes for the cases to be settled. Longest is the waiting time in the metropolitan areas. While the police have managed to reduce the processing times for arms licences in recent years, we Christian Democrats do not believe that this is an issue that is most appropriate to be dealt with by the Police Authority. We believe that the Police Authority should focus on its police core tasks. There have been announcements in the past that have meant that the government has returned with measures to transfer responsibility for certain animal issues to the county administrative boards. Based on the situation we see in society, we see that police data needs to be further refined. Managing weapons permits is one such issue that is appropriately moved from the police to a new authority. The fact that the Red Green Government is not acting on this issue despite announcements made several times about the introduction of a new hunting agency is remarkable. The Christian Democrats assume that the government will return with measures to bring about a new hunting authority and that licensing management will be put on it. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Parliament has already announced to the government that a more general review of the overall regulations for licensing and possession of legal weapons and parts of arms is needed. As far as the motion requests for the 2017 amending directive are concerned, it is obvious that it should not impair or make it more difficult for hunters and sportsmen. The purpose of the Directive is to prevent the misuse of firearms for criminal purposes. Depending on how the requirements of the directive are implemented in Swedish law, there is a risk that it will hit the wrong target groups. Instead of making it more difficult for criminals to commit violent crimes, the rules risk making it unnecessarily difficult for law-abiding hunters and sportsmen. We therefore believe that the issue of illegal weapons must be given the highest priority, but it must not affect those who handle legal weapons in a responsible manner. There is therefore reason to address a new announcement to the government that the implementation of the 2017 amending directive in Swedish legislation should not go beyond what the directive requires in those parts that are at risk of worsening or unnecessarily hampering law-abiding hunters and sportsmen. Madam President, I would like The rules governing the granting of licences also need to be clarified. There are, for example, today that hunters are denied weapons that have too much precision or too much weight. This is because there is room for interpretation around the provisions of the law. Therefore, the law should be clarified in order to remove the authority's margin to refuse a licence on vague grounds. With this, I would like to endorse the Christian Democrats' reservation No 11. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that we support the announcements made in committee management and also reservation 11 that I have just mentioned. I now hope that the government will act on this matter. It's time to simplify, not complicate, for the country's hunters and sportsmen.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-458	Madam President, I would like It's a little strange about the gun debate, I think, that there's so much emotion and people are so upset. We do not have such a debate about, for example, cooks dealing with dangerous things such as burners, LPG, knives and other things that you can kill or commit gross, dangerous acts with. There is no such debate there. However, when we talk about legal gun owners, such as hunters, sportsmen or others, who certainly also deal with dangerous things but who do not commit crimes with them, there is a great deal of emotion, perhaps especially among those who want to make the legislation increasingly restrictive. Madam President, I would like This recurring discussion on the issue of weapons quite often boils down to a simple question: Are you allowed to own dangerous things? Yes, I think you should do that. You're supposed to own dangerous things if you're a suitable person. If you are a person who does not commit crimes, if you are mentally healthy and if you behave otherwise you must own dangerous things. In the past, the Social Democrats have argued that ever stricter arms legislation, in a country that already has a very strict one, that is, Sweden, would be used to clamp on criminal gangs or organised crime. It's obviously nonsense. Of course, the criminal gangs don't use legal weapons. They are by their very nature gangs that break the law and use illegal weapons. However, in the speaker's chair today, it sounded like the Social Democrats changed their mind on this point and instead stated that they want to stop the weapons because of fear of lone lunatics. Madam President, I would like I think that is a rather strange argument. It is clear that all parties in the Swedish parliament – The Liberals have probably been one of the most inciting parties – want to see tougher grips against criminal gangs and that the police get the resources and powers to find lone maniacs and in different ways curb crime. But it is strange to take a lone maniac in the speaker's chair as an example to be intimidated to squeeze at sportsmen, hunters, or other legal gun owners. The same argument about the danger of things can be put forward in a different context. Last time we had a debate on weapons, it was about weapons warehouses. Then I talked about that you can hurt someone with a frozen salmon and many other things. If you hit one in the head, it can cause serious damage to someone. Madam President, I would like Now that summer is rolling in and more and more Swedes are going out into the garden or maybe to some park and barbecues, we can think about that. You could kill someone with a frozen salmon. You can kill someone with the knife you fillet the salmon with. You can also kill someone with the lighter fluid that you might light the grill with. Of course, there are lonely maniacs who have killed someone, perhaps not with a frozen salmon but definitely with a regular kitchen knife or with a lighter fluid. Such lonely lunatics exist. But what I do not know from the Social Democrats is that we should ban the dangerous things. I think it is because it is not a question of being afraid of lonely lunatics, but an argument that has been taken out of the air to continue its ideological struggle against legal arms owners. It's incredibly provocative. There are examples out there in the world of serious stabbings committed by lone maniacs with completely legal knives, dangerous things. There are examples of people in the uniform professions who have committed serious crimes with completely legal weapons, because they have been lonely madmen. There are examples in the world of pyromaniacs, lonely lunatics, who have burned things down. But if you want to get to it, you shouldn't attack the legal gun owners. If you want to get to lonely lunatics, make sure the police have the resources and the authority to investigate and curb crime. That is the problem here, Madam President. And the proposals for that are due to their absence. I used to live in one of Sweden's most vulnerable areas, Tensta. During the time I lived there, it was a negative development– it was not just my fault, but there were other things that drove that development. More and more people were shot, and the criminal gangs grew strong. When I was in Rinkeby district council, we also had to deal with hand grenades being thrown into our areas. As a person who has lived in such an area, I am quite provoked by the use of the non-criminal citizens of those areas as bats in the debate. They are the victims of these areas, who are afraid of criminal gangs and who are exposed to both individual insanity and organised crime. They are used to squeeze something that is not actually a problem, that is, people who legally own weapons and can handle them because they are appropriate. I can be provoked by using the victims of violence to push forward a policy that is not needed. Madam President, I would like Sweden has and must have strict and responsible regulation and handling of arms issues. This means that those persons who are fit to hold weapons and who show that they can handle weapons should have it and do so. But those people who are not suitable and who are suspected of committing insanity, as the Social Democrats were concerned with, should be found and prosecuted by the police. It's not weirder than that. As a final note in my speech, I would like to remind you that Sweden has long been one of the countries in the world with the greatest weapons density. I have no idea what's going on with the knife density in the country. But I know that the most common murder weapon is a knife and not any other weapon. So if you want to curb crime and the existence of criminal gangs, organised crime and lone crazies, you should not stare blindly at the number of weapons or, for that matter, the number of knives. Then you should give the police the resources and powers to fight crime.
i-HCaw5pgWho1ffhqfTPxsmZ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Forssell, for your speech. I have a small question based on the analogy you make between weapons and a frozen salmon. However, you point out later that people who are suitable will also be allowed to hold weapons. As you compare guns with salmon, I wonder if you think there should be the same requirements for salmon owners, cooks or grillers. Or do you see that there is actually a difference between the frozen salmon, the chef or the griller based on the purpose of the product?
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-472	Madam President, I would like This is not as strange as the Social Democrats are trying to make it appear. For example, if you grill wild, it is often a hunter who has shot it. It is true that all the people involved in the grilled game process – from the one who shoots the shot in the forest and sheds the game to the one who grills and the one who might carry the gas or the ignition fluid – handle dangerous things. Of course, those who are considered unfit to handle dangerous things should not do so. The police can actually today if they suspect that a person holds something that will be used to commit crimes seize it. I do not think there is an example of this happening to someone with a frozen salmon. However, as I understand the law and as it stands today, I would think that the police may confiscate a frozen salmon if there is evidence of it and it is clear that it should be used in a criminal manner. True, it's not very common, but that's not my point. Nor is it common to commit crimes involving legal firearms. It's extremely rare. And it's not common for chefs to commit crimes with their kitchen knives. But that's not the point. The Social Democrats are trying to play the cards off here, Madam President. I think we should have strict legislation that gives the police powers and resources to deal with people who cannot handle dangerous things, such as weapons. We have strict arms legislation. But we're not going after those who don't commit crimes. It's a little embarrassing when it blows and burns around our suburbs and vulnerable areas. The Social Democrats will then be standing in this speaker's seat and will again abandon what has been said in the speaker's chair. You make it sound like it's about organized crime or something like that. It's not like that. Legal gun owners do not commit crimes using their weapons.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-476	Madam President, I would like The reason why the regulations are different in terms of the possession of weapons than the holding of frozen salmon is that the purpose of the products differs. And that makes sense. I was not the one in the speaker's chair who made the comparison between the regulation of frozen salmon and the regulation of weapons. It was Joar Forssell. I think the question is a little trivial when the honourable Member does that kind of illustration. Joar Forssell himself says that there should be restrictive laws on weapons because the purpose of a weapon is something completely different from the purpose of the frozen salmon.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-478	Madam President, I would like It is true, and it can sometimes be difficult to understand a proposal that draws a principle to its head. There are people who do not understand that comparisons can be made between different quantities in order to exemplify and clarify fundamental positions. Then I'll speak with a little more clarity. Madam President, I would like I think you should own dangerous things. Things — a salmon, a weapon, or a knife — can be dangerous among themselves. This is true. But the basic basis must be to own dangerous things if you do not commit crimes with them. There are things that are more dangerous than others. They can be subject to stricter legislation. We already have this in Sweden when it comes to weapons, for example. But my point in the speech was that you can kill someone with almost anything. It makes it impossible to be against things just because they are dangerous or just because people don't have things that are dangerous. Everyone in here agrees that you should be able to own things that are dangerous. The next step will be to discuss proportionality. I did so in my speech. I said that we have and should have strict legislation, but it is disproportionate to attack legal gun owners who have been deemed appropriate after very strict scrutiny when you say that you want to get to a lone madman, a professional criteria or something else. This requires better resources and powers for the police, not more social-democratic rhetoric.
i-FZ4GzRDu5WnfkXva4M4Kex	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating a very important piece of legislation for the Swedish labour market, namely the extension of access rights for regional safety representatives, the AU report13. I would like to begin by calling for the rejection of the committee's proposal to reject the government's proposal in this area and for approval of the reservations of the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party, Nos 1 and 2. The background to the government's proposal for legislation is that the Swedish labour market has developed in recent decades. Labour market mobility has increased, workers remain less and less in the same workplace and the proportion of fixed-term workers, hired and posted workers has increased. As a result, workers' links to the workplace have also become smaller than before. It will then be more difficult to maintain the interaction between employers and employees that is the basis for continuous work environment management. The share of small businesses is increasing and the share of smaller jobs is also increasing. This is a development that we want to see, but at the same time it is also important that we have a well-functioning work environment at our workplaces. The development shows that there are many workplaces in the Swedish labour market where there are currently no local safety representatives who, together with the employer, can control and monitor the important work environment – hence the importance and value of regional safety representatives being given access to smaller workplaces where there are collective agreements. Employers in smaller establishments usually do not have the same organisation for work environment work as employers in larger workplaces. They may not have that tradition or knowledge. In this work, the Regional Safety Officers have important roles. A regional safety representative can be a travelling safety representative who reviews the work environment and proposes improvements and promotes employees' participation in the work environment, including getting more local representatives elected. This, in turn, really benefits the work environment. We have had a period when it has been quite tough in the labour market, not least because of covid-19. Alarm reports have been received from various sectors, such as bus drivers and other parts of the public sector, where we see that there is a need for good and credible work environment management. This also demonstrates the importance of a good work environment organisation. Regional safety representatives have a fundamental role to play in activating the local work environment. They also play an important role in drawing attention to health and safety risks at workplaces that lack organised local protection work in the form of safety representatives or safety committees. I find it very difficult to understand the former alliance parties and the Swedish Democrats who choose not to go forward with this legislation, not least in the period in which we now live. The issue has been debated for quite a number of years now, and there is a strong demand from the working world, the labour market and most of the social partners to improve work environment, to strengthen the role and to strengthen local work in the workplace. This is the purpose of this legislation. It is therefore a great disappointment that the legislation will in all likelihood not become a reality when the club falls this afternoon. My question to the parties who choose to oppose the proposal is: How do you explain to those who today operate in the Swedish labour market that you do not want to strengthen the urgent work environment, especially in the time we are living in? With these words, I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be rejected and for reservations 1 and 2.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-492	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to express my support for the reservations. In Elinor Torps' book We, the Shadows, there are many stories that could initiate such a debate. I'm stuck with someone that's in the chapter Cleaned Mongol. Here we can read a journal for an unknown man from Karolinska University Hospital: Trauma: Got stone in the head from 30 meters at his workplace. The stone was reportedly falling from the 6th floor. Open head injury. Starts in front of the left ear, goes to the back of the head. Surgery with approximately 2 litres of bleeding. You clear away small pieces of bone, make a craniotomy about 4 x 4 cm, starting from the fracture site. Works as a construction worker. Coming from Mongolia. (...) Unknown if the patient has an insight into his/her situation. Complaining about pain in the head. According to the responsible doctor, the patient is not entitled to rehab. The worker in question leaves the hospital and disappears. His employer has promised him two months' salary if he is low and does not pursue any process. This is a workplace in our country, Sweden. Elinor Torp's book has the subtitle of a Sweden you do not know. After all, we are reluctant to think that there are parts of our labour market that are characterised by pure work crime or that, for other reasons, are not effectively achieved by laws, rules and practices that apply when people go to work in Sweden. This is part of the reality that we legislators have to make an effort to know. At the same time, we should know that this kind of story cannot be used to assume that it is as well tip top and Hunky-dory on the work environment front otherwise. Certainly in Sweden, from a long perspective, we have managed to reduce the number of fatal accidents at work, for example. But there have been worrying trends in trend breaks in recent years. There are also many other problems to constantly return to, not least psychosocial and organisational. These are problems that have serious consequences in the long term. Last year we were able to take part in a study that showed that 770 people a year are estimated to die as a result of work-related stress, which causes stroke and heart disease. Work-related deaths, injuries and wear and tear are not addressed at all in proportion to their impact on life and health. It is in itself one of many reflections of the Swedish class society. Madam President, I would like What does this have to do with today's report? Yes, very much. Here I should like to apologise in advance, if the intervention is given the character of an information bulletin. Unfortunately, when we debate labour market policy issues, it is often necessary to use some speaking time simply to explain relatively basic facts about what people are doing in the Swedish labour market to the comrades of the bourgeois parties. This can sometimes even be perceived as a kind of health and safety problem. That's not really the case. It is, of course, a privilege to speak in Parliament. In any case, the success that we in Sweden have had in improving the working environment over a long period of time – it is not least about bringing down the death toll in industry – is linked to systematic work environment work that has been built up in the workplace and has been supported by government agencies and applied research. Where there is currently a shortage of work, there is a greater risk for workers, especially workers who have relatively little influence on the content and the organisation of their work. A central element of systematic work environment management is the system of safety representatives. It is a fundamentally functioning flexible system that is often viewed around the world with some envy. The system of safety representatives is based on some basic insights. On the one hand, it is about the need for presence and follow-up of health and safety at work issues. On the one hand, it is a matter of acknowledging that there is a real tension relationship: the employer, who has a responsibility for the working environment, normally has a common interest with the workers in getting to a working place. At the same time, there is an economically-based conflict of interest with the workers. This system is a way of dealing with the complex reality, so that we can have systematic work environment work at workplaces that are small and large – in industries, offices, shops and on buses. All workplaces with 5 or more employees shall appoint safety representatives. At workplaces with 50 or more employees, there shall be a committee of protection composed of representatives of employers and workers. This also applies in smaller workplaces if the workers so request. Today's report deals more specifically with what is known as a regional safety representative. In workplaces where there is no protection committee, a trade union organisation may designate another person for such a task. A regional safety representative will then have the same extremely important powers as a local safety representative to promote a satisfactory working environment and help to ensure that protection against ill health and accidents can be recognised and that threats can be averted. A regional safety representative shall work to establish, where possible, a protection committee where it does not exist. Today, there must be at least one union member in the workplace for a regional safety representative to be appointed. There are some workplaces in Sweden where this is not the case. What kind of workplaces are they, typically? This applies, on the one hand, to sectors with mobile or temporary jobs and, on the other hand, to sectors with a generally high turnover of staff where work is largely carried out, for example, by temporary agencies. It is also clear that in many of the industries there are firms taking in seconded workers. They get a hanging agreement but otherwise they are not with so much, so to speak. It could be workers who do not know that they can join the union, who do not know how it works in Sweden or who do not actually dare to join the union for fear of reprisals. As most people can see, these are workplaces where the need to get off to work for protection is particularly great. There is a need for a system that allows trade unions to contribute to strengthening a very important part of the conditions in the industry, namely the basic health and safety issues. The access of regional safety representatives to these workplaces should therefore be an obvious and urgent measure. It is also something that has been called for a long time from the trade union side. The Left Party has repeated it several times in the Riksdag. Now the government has finally given priority to producing such a bill, and that is very good. What, then, do the bourgeois parties plus, of course, the Swedish Democrats? Well, they're proposing to reject the bill. So weak is empathy with vulnerable workers in the bourgeoisie and the outer right, and the desire to be every whim from the employers' organization to the law is so strong that both pragmatism and decency are put aside. Then the timing will also be extra stomach-strong. Now that we have been working on this report, we have all been able to follow the tremendous efforts that have been made in pandemic times with regard to those professions where it is necessary to be in the workplace in order to carry out their social work. It is health care, care for the elderly and public transport. In many of these workplaces, it has been extremely important that safety representatives have assumed their responsibilities. They've discovered flaws. They have demanded concrete action from the employer. In some cases, they have also resorted to protective arrests. They have thereby exposed risks and saved colleagues from ill health and danger. However, in the right-wing and right-wing motions that have gathered a majority in the committee, an approach is expressed that goes from just rejecting the bill to also suspecting and undermining the very system of safety representatives that we have today. The Liberals and the Swedish Democrats go the furthest in this direction, but the others are not far behind. In the speech on evaluation and balance, there is a desire to completely abolish the system of safety representatives, i.e. a model in which workers themselves actively participate and where they have the opportunity to make demands in terms of health and safety at work. Madam President, I would like In the arguments of the right-wing parties, reference is sometimes made to the fact that it should instead be government inspectors who step in and do the work of the regional safety ombudsmen today. It's a thin curtain to hide behind, for a number of reasons. Firstly, we know that the same parties have had a nice attitude also towards the Swedish Work Environment Authority's funding. The idea that the agency will carry out more inspections with fewer inspectors may be written in a classical bourgeois account for magical thinking in public activities. Secondly, the modest sums that the state is currently making in contributions to the trade unions for this work – 125 million in the last budget for all trade unions together – are matched with almost as much from the trade unions themselves. So we have a very cost-effective job. Thirdly – and that is the most important thing – it is unreasonable to believe that an authority should have better control of what is going on in the capillaries of working life than the organisations that are in the sector in question. This is also the strength of the Swedish model in general. Organisations in the workplace assume a responsibility to monitor compliance with laws, agreements and practices on the ground, close to the business. It is also well established that work environment work works best that way. Madam President, I would like Finally, let me return to the example of the unfortunate Mongolian construction worker. The Swedish Work Environment Authority closes the case at once when you get information from the police, which comes to the site and finds blood but no injured worker. I quote from Elinor Torp's book: In the standard form to the police, questions are answered with yes and no. Has an inspection been carried out at the workplace? No. Has a report been made to the Public Prosecutor's Office about a suspected crime? No. Is this planned to be done and, if so, when? No. Has an occupational injury investigation/report been carried out or will it be carried out? No. Has the event caused any other action by the Swedish Work Environment Authority? No. What we need is for such workplaces not to exist in Sweden, not undisturbed anyway. Then, of course, authorities and their cooperation against working life criminality are of crucial importance. But it also very much has the trade unions and their regional protection organisations. So, as far as their work is concerned, the right wing of this House refuses to help them. It's actually shameful.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-519	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval by the Committee on Employment's proposal for a decision, whereby a majority of the committees condemns the government's proposal for an extension of the right of access for regional trade union representatives. It says quite a lot, Madam President, about how misguided and substandard the government's proposal is when you manage to get a broad majority of five very different parties against you. Unfortunately, the Government's proposal is not, frankly, about the working environment first and foremost, but about the relations between the Social Democracy and the organisationally related parts of the trade union movement. In fact, I regret that the government does not raise the serious issue of workplace accidents above party politics, but instead has chosen to make internal politics out of all this. That, Mr President, is far too important a matter for that. On the contrary, we need to focus on the issue of substance, that is, the important issue of health and safety at work – not least in the wake of the Corona. Before developing a system, in this case the system of regional safety representatives, so-called RSOs, you have to ask yourself how or whether the system works in the first place. All of us parties who support the committee's position also underline the remarkable fact that the activities of regional safety representatives have never been evaluated, even though state subsidies – i.e. tax money – go to work. So, Mr President, no one knows how effective or successful the operation is, and that is why, in addition to rejecting the bill, we are proposing an evaluation and an investigation before deciding on an extension of the operation. Let me just take one of a few examples. For example, at the end of last year, Ecot reported that 90 per cent of the workplaces in elderly care received comments on their work environment according to the Swedish Work Environment Agency, in a sector where both regional and local safety representatives were of course long held and where the degree of union membership is very high. Had the government's proposals been based on reality, both the physical and the mental working environment here should be, if not an example so much better than the other sectors where fewer or no workers have chosen to be unionised and where there is no local trade union organisation that can set up a safety representative. So it is with all due clarity and after a look at the facts unfortunately not. Mr President, I would like to Interest, engagement and opportunities for overall functions and positions in relation to health and safety at work shall not directly or indirectly exclude all workers who have chosen not to be members of the trade union. In fact, issues relating to health and safety at work concern all workers and, of course, employers, who are, of course, ultimately responsible. We Moderates think that the safety representatives have an important function in Swedish workplaces, and we obviously have nothing against the fact that safety representatives are unionists. But it should not be mandatory or normative, Mr President. It is also clear that the labour market is quite different today than in the 1970s, when the Work Environment Act was drafted, and there have been major changes in the Swedish labour market that have an impact on the work of safety representatives. As has been said earlier, the proportion of union members has fallen sharply. Another change is that companies and workplaces are different today. There are not as many large companies but, instead, more small enterprises with fewer than five employees. It is also worth pointing out that work environment management is not just a trade union issue. Work environment work concerns and must be carried out by those who work in the business, i.e. employers and employees. There are already situations where the role and mandate of regional safety representatives are unclear. The Government's proposal risks increasing this uncertainty in terms of the role of the RSOs and thus hindering local work on health and safety at work rather than improving it. By reviewing the possibility of improving the transparency of the Swedish Work Environment Authority, it could also be easier for the Agency to work with work environment problems that are difficult to deal with during regular site visits. It is also the case that the work environment challenges in most workplaces are different today, with growing problems with mental illness, harassment and bullying. It is a trend that is increasing, and here society needs to rethink to face the back of the modern workplace. Once again and in conclusion, Mr President, occupational safety and health issues are too important to be used only as a pawn in a social democratic internal political game.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-533	Mr President, I would like to It was an interesting speech by Mats Green, although to a very small extent he touched on the reality that the bill has to deal with. I note that Mats Green said that much has changed in the Swedish labour market. There are more small businesses and many with a looser link to the labour market. That's a good thing to say. It is therefore an argument for the bill, and it is also clearly expressed in it. It was therefore a rather strange turn on the part of Mats Green to use that argument to propose rejection of the bill. There were also some surprising elements in Mats Green's speech, such as the fact that all trade unions in Sweden – LO, TCO and Saco, all behind a stronger role for safety representatives – would be some kind of Social Democratic cover organisations. It is news that I have not been reached by, and, I believe, not one of these central organisations. It seems rather something you talk about in the Moderates, and you should perhaps stop doing that. At the same time, I am thinking a little bit about what Mats Green means by what he says about this being something that applies to all workers. After all, we have collective agreements on the Swedish labour market, and a collective agreement covers everyone who is bound by it, whether they are members of the union or not. Why should a trade union organisation not be able to accept the responsibility that comes with the collective agreement to contribute to, together with the employer, having a good understanding of occupational safety and health issues? Why are the Moderates so anxious that workers can influence their working environment?
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-537	Mr President, I would like to I am strongly opposed to Ali Esbati idyllising the situation and trend that we have seen for a number of years in terms of work environment and workplace accidents in Sweden. Then we can't idyllicize the system that exists now. Obviously – demonstrably – that system has major shortcomings. At a time when there are many workers who choose not to be a member of a trade union organisation then leave them out of, or actually exclude them from, active work environment work and from taking overall positions in that work environment work – we have to ask ourselves if this is the right way to go. No, of course it isn't. We do not reject the system of regional safety representatives, but we say that before an extension is made – and in addition, government subsidies – it is reasonable to evaluate the system. Then there was my comment on the Social Democratic internal policy. I note that we have spoken to the Secretary of State and have received some information from the Minister. But was it an open dialogue or discussion? We received a pre-served proposal – take it or leave it. This is not the way to take joint responsibility for improved health and safety legislation. Do not deny the worrying trend in workplace accidents that has been seen for a long time in Sweden. If the existing system had worked so well, why do we have the situation we have? I would appreciate an answer from Ali Esbati and the Left.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-540	Mr President, I would like to I was born in a country other than Sweden, but I suspect that the language confusion that seems to be here does not mainly depend on me. Everything is basically the opposite of what Mats Green says. It is not the case that we are idyllicising the situation in the Swedish labour market, but we regret many of the deteriorations that have occurred, not least thanks to proposals that the Mats Green Party has put forward over time. To counter the deterioration, there are a number of proposals that we have wanted to see. One of the proposals is now being put forward by the government, and we think that is very good. This is also the view of the trade unions, who have an insight into the issue – they have been calling for this for a long time. Last time I checked, it was always the government that put forward proposals. A bill has now been tabled, and we are discussing it in Parliament. It's no wonder. If Mats Green has missed that time, I regret it, but now the bill is on the table. Mats Green is also calling for an evaluation of the system now in place. I can still tell you about a modern electronic tool called Google. A search on Google shows that there is a lot written about the system for safety representatives and about research in the area of work environment on why it is important to be present and close to the work environment. The Swedish Work Environment Authority carried out approximately 3,000 inspections. The Regional Safety Officers contributed to approximately 55 000 cases of contact to improve the work environment. It is a cost-effective system where the government contributes a little and where the trade unions also contribute. The question remains: why are Mats Green and his party so anxious that workers should have greater influence and influence on the risks in the working environment?
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-546	Mr President, I would like to The last one is my line! It is up to me to ask Ali Esbati why he is so anxious about giving all workers, including those who have chosen not to be union members, the opportunity to become regional safety representatives. That is in fact what Ali Esbati wants, what he says and what he proposes. This, Mr President, is, of course, a totally unacceptable approach. On the contrary, there is a need to involve more workers, more organisations and, to a greater extent, the responsible authority. Usually, Ali Esbati does not applaud the fact that it is non-public organisations that are supposed to take over what is actually part of the exercise of authority – but it does here. Again, it is Ali Esbati who will answer the question why he wants to exclude the more and more who for various reasons have not chosen to be union members. We have absolutely nothing against regional safety representatives. We do not mind that they are union members, but that should not be a direct or indirect requirement. Stop excluding those groups that are often far from the labour market and are not union members from taking part in the work environment. Then I also note that during the eight alliance years the Swedish Work Environment Authority made considerably more improvements than in the years when the Left Party could influence the budget. We have data on all years except 2017. The Left Party has a lot to prove and some questions to answer about this.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-550	Mr President, I would like to I have a few questions for Mr Mats Green in connection with his speech. Mats Green points out that it is important to evaluate the role and functioning of the safety representatives because it has not been done at all. As I prepared my speech, I found at least ten different investigations that have been carried out. These are reports that have been submitted from health and safety at work and in other ways. They are public documents and public assets in relation to the activities of the safety representative and the regional safety representative. My question to Mats Green is not where he gets his information – he is entitled to it – but I question the basis and what he wants to mean by such a proposal. Then I have a question about the Regional Safety Officers. It is true that there are state subsidies to the operation, but at the same time we should remember that about half of the cost of today's work in relation to the regional safety representatives is tied up in terms of working time, for example. With the investigation that has been carried out and the proposal to reject the proposal that is now before us, I wonder how Mats Green sees the future functioning of regional safety ombudsmen, given how the labour market works with current problems.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-555	Mr President, I would like to I can see that the Social Democrats, too, are unsurprisingly surprised because they have tabled the proposal and they are the ones who are typifying the system that has proven many shortcomings. We cannot stand here and deny the trend in work environment and workplace accidents that has emerged in recent years. It is reasonable for the State to carry out a formal evaluation of the system. Of course there are Google and a lot of other search engines, but still it should surely be the state that evaluates the system that the state through taxpayers and the legislation itself regulates and supports financially. It is good and natural with different party submissions, and it should of course be taken into account in a whole. I think it would be interesting if Johan Andersson could reflect a little on the fact that you have managed to get a majority of the Swedish Parliament against you. Five rather different parties have said that this is not ultimate. This is a bad proposal. You Social Democrats have chosen to make internal politics out of something that really should be much more important and in which we should actually get along – provided, of course, that everyone goes into such a discussion with an open mind. How does Johan Andersson see that you have not managed to get a majority for the proposal? I would say, Mr President, that it speaks clearly.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-560	Mr President, I would like to I think Mr Mats Green misunderstood that it is through Google that the information on the safety ombudsmen can be obtained. That's not what I meant. But I searched for the studies that have been submitted with regard to the data, and that search through the search engines shows that a number of studies and studies have been submitted over the years. Perhaps it would have been nice to have taken note of them before going forward with additional parts. I find it difficult to see the link Mats Green makes between the Social Democrats and a local or regional safety representative. I find it very difficult to see that connection. I think it is almost rude to refer to it as some form of campaign organisation or connected in other ways. I note that we all have a great responsibility, all 349 Members here, for many pressing issues in Sweden. Work environment issues are one of these, and we are working on them. We work in our committee in different ways. The government is working on a new national work strategy, and there are other parts. We have the issue of fatal accidents and other things. To say that it is not very much connected with this or otherwise, I think it is insulting in the debate. My question to Mats Green concerns above all the assertion of a link between the Social Democrats and the local regional safety representatives. I find it difficult to see, so it would be exciting to hear the honourable Member's comment on this.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-564	Mr President, I would like to I have never claimed that there is any connection between regional safety representatives and social democracy. What I say and, above all, regret is that in these LAS times and in other discussions you have chosen to make some sort of social democratic internal policy out of an issue that should actually be above party politics and in which we should all, frankly, have agreed. To stand here and claim that the existing system, the system we have, is ultimate is to deny the development of work environment and workplace accidents that we have seen over a number of years. That this would be the solution to it is not really something that speaks for. I can also be surprised that the Social Democracy here is so keen to leave much of what should be the exercise of authority – especially when what is happening and what is happening in some workplaces should definitely be the subject of rather sharp exercise of authority – and that one is so keen that other organisations, party organisations, should deal with this. I can say that I would have objected even if it were individual employers who would deal with this only from an employer's perspective. It goes without saying that we must have a clear and fairly sharp exercise of authority here. Again: Stop idyllicizing the existing system! Nevertheless, we have demonstrably a rather regrettable development in the field of work environment and workplace accidents in Sweden. Instead, let us take joint action to see how we can improve the existing system but also see what other options there are for dealing with this in a more ultimate way.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-570	Mr President, I would like to As can be seen from the committee's position, we believe that Parliament should reject the government's proposal for an extension of access rights, as it has been drafted today. Unlike the government and the Left Party, the Swedish Democrats believe that the right of access for a safety representative who is partly financed by the state should apply to all workplaces in Sweden, regardless of whether there are union members or collective agreements. It is obvious to us that all employees working at Swedish workplaces should be included. Like the government in its proposal, we do not want to exclude a large number of employees. If anything, I think it's shameful. The fact that the government clearly wants the Regional Safety Officers to have a political agenda can be clearly read on p. 8 - 9 of the bill. It says: It would appear that access rights are based neither on the link provided by a collective agreement between an employee's organisation and an employer nor on the fact that the employee's organisation has a member at the place of employment. An important task for regional safety representatives is to strengthen the joint work of the parties... It is not their job to be independent health and safety inspectors. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to It is no clearer than this that the Government's proposal is largely about the fact that instead of leaving the safety representative as the safety representative, they also want to carry out political work in the workplace. It is a Rules of Procedure The Swedish Democrats strongly oppose, as we believe that safety representatives should be politically independent. Mr President, I would like to The problems we are seeing today have emerged under the current system. It can therefore be observed that the extension of access rights for regional safety representatives is not a sufficient measure to tackle accidents at work, but would simply mean building on a system that is fundamentally exclusive to many employees. This is why the Swedish Democrats have highlighted a completely new model that, among other things, means that regional safety representatives will in the long term be replaced by independent health and safety inspectors disconnected from the trade unions. However, the government says no to this and instead believes that it is the role of politically-governed unions that needs to be strengthened in the work environment. This is despite the fact that many employees today are not in any trade union and will then be excluded from this important work. But, Mr President, union membership is not enough. The party book should also be the right one. We who follow this in the media know that a while ago came an arbitration that gave the LO trade leadership the right to exclude employees from being safety representatives and union elected representatives if they are simultaneously elected for the Swedish Democrats. Unfortunately, this is a story that repeats itself time and again. I recognize it from my time as active in the Social Democrats and as a safety representative and trade union steward, when they were put into the Social Democratic Party School at Rönneberga Kursgård. But at that time it was not the Swedish Democrats but the Moderates who were the evil personified. It was just a matter of political indoctrination at every meeting. This is pure discrimination and registration of opinions, and it definitely does not belong in Swedish workplaces by 2020. Mr President, I would like to It is time for a round-up in Swedish work environment policy with a model based on research, changes in legislation and a new starting point for how local and regional work environment management should be designed and coordinated. It does not work as the government to cut the funding for the Swedish Work Environment Authority, Mynak and the Swedish Labour Court, to vote against increased limitation periods for occupational health and safety crimes and to exclude a lot of employees who want to contribute. These are measures that are a step in the wrong direction and send very strange signals to the Swedish labour market, both to employees and trade unions and to serious companies. I would also like to say something about the announcement under paragraph 2. It is about the Swedish Democrats wanting to see a completely new model, and the start of introducing a new model is to evaluate the old model. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to reject the proposal and for a notice to be sent to the government regarding an evaluation of the Regional Safety Officers.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-583	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Magnus Persson, for your post! I have questions about the political link with regard to safety representatives and regional safety representatives. It is, according to Magnus Persson, very clear in the proposal that has been put forward, which several of the social partners have supported in the referrals received. My brief question is: do all the central organisations stand for the clear link between the Social Democratic Party and the safety representatives in the workplace that Magnus Persson is talking about? Is everyone, both TCO and Saco, involved in that connection? It would be very exciting to get a picture of this. In the honourable Member's speech a moment ago, this link was made quite clear. Today it is therefore very strongly politicized, to quote Magnus Persson. Is that the picture?
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-585	Mr President, I would like to As everyone knows, it is the trade unions that appoint the safety representatives, including the regional ones. In Building, you become an automatic trade unionist. Of course there is a connection with the Social Democracy. The outgoing Chairman of the LO sits on the Executive Committee of the Social Democrats. And believe it or not – the new incoming Chairman of LO is also on the Executive Committee of the Social Democrats. On the Party Board of the Social Democrats is the chairman of the Building. So yes, the link between the Social Democrats and the trade union movement exists, and it is strong. There I stand behind every word.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-587	Mr President, I would like to I do not think we will get that far in this debate. I am happy to offer to tell Magnus Persson at a later date about the long tradition and history that the trade union movement, primarily LO, and the Social Democratic Party have in common. In his request, Magnus Persson proposes that the Swedish Work Environment Authority should assume the role that the regional safety representatives could perform in relation to what we would like to see in this area. There is less talk of the financing of this. Today, regional safety representatives are funded approximately 50% by trade unions, whether it be TCO, Saco or LO. I would like to ask Magnus Persson a question. We have about 1 700 regional safety representatives around the country, according to the latest statistics I have recently obtained. How do we see that the new inspectors on health and safety at work, whose role of course needs to be greatly increased, should be financed?
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-590	Mr President, I would like to I would like to make a small contribution before answering the question. I've worked as a construction worker for 26 years and been in Building for as long. I have been a trade union steward and safety representative as well as an active member of the Social Democrats. I switched to the Swedish Democrats and was disfellowshipped because of this. So that discussion seems a little over-played. When it comes to funding, it is great that Johan Andersson raises this issue. In the budget for 2020, the Social Democrats choose to lower the grant to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. I find this very worrying in these times, quite absurd, and it is being done to fund a fee for an association in Switzerland. At the same time, the Swedish Democrats choose to increase the grant to the Swedish Work Environment Authority by 77 million, of which we directly earmark 50 million for the work in connection with the transition from regional safety representatives to health and safety inspectors. The infrastructure already exists; the Swedish Work Environment Authority has its offices over Sweden, and these are the ones you want to start from. Then, of course, we will make more money in the future. But we are shooting at 50 million of the 77 million extra that we are giving to the Swedish Work Environment Authority this year, instead of reducing the funding, which the Social Democrats choose to do.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-593	Mr President, I would like to I have two questions for Magnus Persson. I noted that Magnus Persson's argument against the bill was mainly based on a kind of personal trauma in the form that Magnus Persson was not allowed to remain in the free association Building after he chose to organize himself in a racist political party. My question is this: is this really a sufficient reason to deny Sweden's workers a better model of protection against threats and risks in the workplace? The second question is about the state versus the party organisations. Magnus Persson argues very strongly that it must be government agencies that carry out the work that is being carried out today by unions and employers together, and that this should be organised and financed in a way that is still unclear – this is in any case the starting point. My question is: Is it therefore also the view of the Swedish Democrats and Magnus Persson that collective agreements should generally be replaced by things that the state through government agencies does? There's an intimate connection that we're discussing. The point of collective agreements is that organisations take responsibility for much of what happens in the field of working life. There are political systems in place to replace this with the state to regulate those conditions. If the Swedish Democrats in this case so badly want the state to do things instead of the organisations, does this also apply to other things that collective agreements regulate?
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-596	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions, Ali Esbati. No, I'm not so sad that I had to leave Building. I have some experience to fall back on. It will be a little difficult to take the debate with political broilers who may have zero experience of working life. No, our proposal is that we want all employees to be covered by the work environment. All employees must be entitled to protection. All workplaces shall have the right to be visited by a regional safety representative or an occupational safety and health inspector. That is what is at the heart of our petition. To question two, I answer no – The Swedish democrats are fully behind the Swedish model. We are probably the party that fights most for the Swedish model, especially with regard to the social pillar and the like, where the government has been rather weak. I don't have a problem with collective agreements. I would like to see all Swedish workplaces have collective agreements. But this is not the case now, and it is important that the workplaces that do not have collective agreements should not be excluded from the work environment. This is the basis for our entire policy: All employees in Sweden should have the right to a good workplace and a good working environment. The Left Party does not want that when, with its proposal, they support the government's proposal. They want to exclude a number of employees and workplaces that do not fit into their template. I think that is a pity, especially as we have an increasing number of fatal accidents in our workplaces. They also say no to, for example, measures that extend the limitation period, which the Left itself has been pushing. Yet you vote no– I think it is a pity.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-600	Mr President, I would like to I am glad to hear that Magnus Persson is not sorry that he had to leave the Building. I'm not sorry about that either. I tried to understand what prompted the very negative attitude towards trade unions – LO, TCO, Saco – being allowed to do what is their responsibility. But we may have to leave it. With regard to collective agreements, in my speech I tried to explain how it works – apparently not very successful. The collective agreements that apply at a workplace also apply to those who are not members of the collective union. The question is therefore: should the trade union organisation be able to contribute to the creation of a safety committee in the workplace and otherwise be able to do what it expects a collective agreement-holder organisation to be able to do, including caring about what the working environment looks like? It is not that if you have or do not have a collective agreement, if you have or do not have a trade union member, if you have or have not had a visit from a regional safety representative, the Swedish Work Environment Authority is suddenly not allowed to come and do an inspection. It has nothing to do with that. The question is: should a trade union organisation that has workplaces covered by collective agreements be able to be in place and ensure that the collective agreement can also be followed when it comes to health and safety at work? Our answer is yes. The answer of the Swedish democrats is no. I've been trying to figure out why. It hasn't gone very well. But it depends, I think, that Magnus Persson is not very good at explaining it. I think it is because one simply dislikes trade union organisations in general, in line with what is the political DNA of the Swedish democrats.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-604	Mr President, I would like to No, I disagree with Ali Esbati here. Trade unions are important and trade unions are needed. It is the politicisation of trade unions that is the problem when a large number of employees are excluded. For example, if you want to become a safety representative and have the wrong party book, you are denied the right to become a safety representative. That is the basis of the whole problem. It is clear that you should be able to appoint your own safety representative at your workplace, but it should be the employees who choose their safety representative. They should be able to choose Kalle Svensson, who is a Swedish democrat, or Ali Esbati, who is a left-wing party. They should be able to choose which of them they want, and nobody should be able to question that. The workplace must be able to choose its own safety representative. As far as regional safety representatives are concerned, they must have a non-political agenda and work for all employees. This is not the case in workplaces today. I don't know how many workplaces Ali Esbati has visited in his life. Have you worked on, for example, a Swedish construction site and seen how it works? Have you been active within the union as a safety representative or trade union officer and seen how the work is done behind the scenes? I've been there for quite a few years. I have sat at Rönneberga course yard and know what it is about. I've been through it myself. Ali Esbati reads a lot, Googles and searches online, but I think his own work experience is pretty bad in this case. As a result, he has the argument he has. Then it is an ideological question. Ali Esbati is a left-wing party and believes that the entrepreneurs are terrible and that everything that goes against the union is very dangerous, that it is the death of the workers, because in his world the workers are voting cattle who are to join the ranks. They should not have their own will and self-determination. This is about self-determination for employees. If you want to be a safety representative, you should be a safety representative, regardless of political link. But Ali Esbati cannot understand and accept that.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-610	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved in this report. I am also very pleased that a majority of the committees are in favour of the Center Party's proposals for wording in the report. Work environment issues are important and affect us all in our different roles, as employers, as workers and as legislators. These are issues that we should not take lightly on, especially in these days when shortcomings in work environment work have become more visible. But we should not mix the cards and use the shortcomings that have arisen as a pretext to try to make changes solely for ideological reasons, which at best will be a blow to the air, at the expense of order and order in the Swedish labour market. Let me be clear: the Center Party is behind the Swedish model of safety representative and does not want to abolish them in any way. These safety representatives make a major contribution to improving the daily working environment in their workplaces. We think that is fantastic, and for that these safety representatives should have a warm thank you. But let us also raise the level and be honest in the debate and not implore statements that are not at all true. In fact, it pisses me off that we do not want to take our constructive ways forward from the left. Mr President, I would like to Today's debate is not really about this. Today's debate is about the government, although on several occasions we have clarified our position, through the back door and without any in-depth analysis, wanting to give regional safety representatives an expanded role by giving trade union regional safety representatives access even to workplaces where they do not have members. This is despite the fact that regional safety ombudsmen have never been evaluated by an independent body and that government money goes to work. No one knows how effective and successful this business really is. We cannot therefore say yes to a proposal that risks leading to unclear effects on work environment work, despite Ali Ali's willingness to base our positions on less complete reports on Google. It is therefore no longer a question of union representation, but can be likened to the exercise of authority. This is not a task that can be delegated to other actors. It creates ambiguity, and that is what we are opposed to. Mr President, I would like to The employer's responsibility is regulated in our solid work environment legislation, and it is the Swedish Work Environment Authority's task to check compliance with the regulations and which also has the opportunity to impose sanctions. It is important that we do not abandon this system. Of course, the Centre Party is serious about fatal accidents, but it is important that the right measures are taken to get to the employers who cheat on the regulations and put their employees at risk. This is an official task and not a task for the Regional Safety Officers. Let us then be courageous and find wise and effective proposals to tackle the problem, for every individual who cannot come home to his loved ones from his job is a failure for all of us. From the Center Party's side, we are responsive and playable to join others in rolling up our sleeves in this important work. But we want to do things in the right order and based on solid knowledge. It's not harder than that. My call to other parties is therefore to take our extended hand, because we are actually prepared to be a constructive voice in order to find solutions.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-619	Mr President, I would like to I noted that Akhondis Alireza's definition of constructive proposals in this case was to call for a rejection of a proposal. There's some different entrances. I just want to try to understand this properly, because the proposal is not about whether regional safety representatives should exist and operate, but about whether regional safety representatives should also be able to have access to certain types of workplaces to which they currently do not have access. The argument of the Centre Party, in any case as we hear it today, is about the activities of regional safety representatives at all, i.e. whether or not it is reasonable to have regional safety representatives who have the powers of regional safety representatives. In my speech, I tried to conclude that this is the argument. But you really go much further than the bill in the desire to turn back workers' rights. It is more a tradition in the politics of the Center Party in general, but it is important that it is made clear. It is thought that this is problematic because it is a matter of exercising authority and whatever it may be. It therefore wants to withdraw the powers of the regional safety ombudsmen today. It is important that this is brought to the fore in this debate. What we are discussing now is the question of what the regional safety representatives are doing today, what they think about it, also in situations where, for example, the employer has made sure to scare the workers so that there is no union member. That's what it's all about. Why should such workplaces not be able to join the community that the Swedish model offers? Why does the Center Party want to deny them that?
i-VrGLxz9mYC2ZLwCNymxLwD	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ali Esbati, for the line! I was just standing in the speaker's chair and pleaded not to impose statements that at all are not true. Nowhere in the proposal we have put forward has we questioned regional safety representatives and opened up for their abolition. What we have said no to and what we have called for is the increased right of access. I hope that this has been made clear in the debate. We have also said that we would like to see an independent evaluation of the activities of regional safety representatives. We haven't closed any doors in any direction in that. On a number of occasions we have now said that we would like to see a solid knowledge of these issues so that together we can find constructive ways to ensure that the working environment for Sweden's workers is improved.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-627	Mr President, I would like to I am not imposing any other positions on Alireza Akhondi than those he has just outlined in the speaker's chair. It will be strange if you are not allowed to refer to what someone has said because it can be violated by it. Of course, the motion you have printed is to propose rejection of the bill. But what Alireza Akhondi said in the speaker's chair was about the problems that exist with regional safety representatives having the role that they have at all. If I am not to interpret it, I wonder what Alireza Akhondi meant by this being about the exercise of authority and that it should not be on regional safety representatives but on a state authority. So I'm trying to sort out what the Center Party and Alireza Akhondi really mean. I also wonder what the evaluation called for by the Center Party should be independent of. Should it be independent of what is happening in reality? In reality, for example, we have research that shows that it is important to have a presence at the workplace in order for systematic work environment management to work. We have trade unions for officials, workers and academics who say that it is important for them to do so. They also say that companies that do the right thing should not be exposed to unfair competition. This is what happens if companies ensure that they protect themselves from transparency by acquiring a workplace where they do not have a union member. Then they do not need to follow up on the collective agreement in the field which they have signed. Why does the Center Party want to stand up for these companies?
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-631	Mr President, I would like to I wrote my own speech and feel very confident about what I just said in the speaker's chair. I do not quite understand how my words that demonstrate a spirit of constructiveness and a willingness to roll up my sleeves in order to contribute to positive health and safety legislation can be misinterpreted. This description is hard for me to understand right now. We are talking here about an evaluation. We who work with work environment issues meet organisations, both on the employee side and on the employer side, and get to know many different perspectives and different ways of looking at these issues. But none of these perspectives gives the whole picture. Therefore, we want to take a holistic approach to evaluate and see how effective the operations have been. I think that is a common sense and that an ideological compass is not always allowed to run things. Rather, it shows that you are actually prepared to listen to and see the advantages and disadvantages of different structures. As a center party, I am proud that we are prepared to listen.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-634	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that health and safety issues are very important. I myself have worked as coordinator of the Protection Committee at my previous workplace and know how important the safety representative's activities are. I also know what they can contribute to when it comes to improving the working environment. I would also like to mention this from my political point of view. When I have worked with and discussed trade union issues within my party, I have met several people who have been involved in local trade unions and safety representatives issues. When, for example, a partner says that you do not want to take anything higher up in the system, it is unfortunately not possible for the Social Democrats to stop. They do it to get positions higher up. This has been done, for example, within Transport and Kommunal and only because the representative is a Christian Democrat. The political discussion cannot be completely ignored when it comes to the appointment of safety representatives by the trade unions. This report follows on from the government's proposal for an extended right of access for regional safety representatives. The Government has proposed an extension of the possibility to appoint regional safety representatives through an amendment to the Work Environment Act to allow such safety representatives access to more workplaces. A regional safety representative shall be allowed to be appointed for an establishment where a local department of a federation or a comparable association of workers with such department is or is usually bound by collective agreements in relation to the employer of the establishment, even if the association has no trade union members at the establishment. We Christian Democrats have for several years in our budgetary motions raised the need for an evaluation of the regional safety ombudsmen, who, moreover, receive funds from the state budget, as has been the case in the past. We believe that such an evaluation should take place before any extension of powers takes place. When tax funds are sent to a business, it is also reasonable to want a regular evaluation that we Members of Parliament can take part in. The government has chosen to move forward on this issue without the proposal for such an evaluation, something we find unfortunate. We have therefore chosen to call for a rejection of the Government's proposal, which has also won a majority in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. That is why we will be calling for the committee's proposal in today's report to be approved, but we also have a justification in a separate opinion. We have a different input from, for example, the Swedish Democrats, but we still think that today's proposal must be rejected. Like some consultation bodies, there are elements in the proposal that I welcome, such as the Migration Agency's comment that the proposal may be a relevant measure to reach workers who are otherwise unprotected. This could involve posted workers or third-country nationals. We realise that there are workplaces where people are exploited and work under poor and uncertain working conditions. We share the government's assessment that it is important for work environment management to have good interaction between employers and employees. Regional safety representatives have in their basic task to activate local work environment work and to pay attention to occupational risks. We note that labour market mobility has increased, which places new demands on the working environment. Workers' links to and commitment to workplaces have become weak e. At the same time, employers in smaller workplaces often do not have the same organisation around work environment work as employers in larger workplaces. Mr President, I would like to A few months ago, I followed a regional safety representative on a visit to a construction site. It was very interesting to follow it, and I think they have a very important task. This is not what we fundamentally question; it is the extended right where there is no trade union member. That is the point of discussion. We have had a discussion with the Minister for Labour in the past about the role of safety representatives now in Coronatids, especially in home care and in the care of the elderly, where many today feel very uncertain whether they are protected in their work every day. Unfortunately, I do not think that the government has taken proper action on this issue. The Minister is welcome to explain how the Regional Safety Officers can be involved and contribute to the Corona. After all, when we work for a zero vision of fatal accidents, there is a criticism from consultation bodies that we need to take seriously. Among the referral bodies that reject this proposal are the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, but also the Employers' Association KFO and the Employers' Alliance. They believe that the proposal runs the risk of detaching work on health and safety at work from the local level where they think it belongs and of turning it into a trade union issue. The state inquiry A changing working life – how is responsibility for the working environment affected? , SOU 2017:24, among many other health and safety issues concerned the regional safety representatives. The investigation addresses the fact that, while the regional safety ombudsmen are financed by the State, they are employed ombudsmen. However, the investigation concluded that it is assumed that the Regional Safety and Health Protection Officers are engaged in the tasks set out in the OSH Act. In support of this assumption, the investigation refers to a report made by Dalarna University in 2011 which noted that the assignments as regional safety ombudsman and trade union ombudsman may in some cases go into each other but that the primary task is to get the local work environment started. We believe that we need to move on by looking at these double roles. We therefore believe that there are questions that need to be clarified before it is reasonable to decide on an extension of access rights for regional safety representatives. This evaluation should, in our view, serve as a starting point to highlight how employers and employees experience cooperation within the regional safety ombudsman activities. The aim should also be to examine how to increase trust between employers and regional safety representatives before any new position is taken on this extension of access rights. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-648	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Safety representatives at workplaces play an extremely important role. We see this not least in these times when safety representatives are making enormous efforts even in times of crisis to ensure a good working environment for employees, not least in care for the elderly. The working environment in each workplace should be safe, and of course no one should have to risk their lives at work. We all agree on this. Mr President, I would like to During the debate, there has been a great focus on what we do not want. That is why I would like to tell the Liberals what we want to see changes to improve the working environment for more people. Firstly, we want an investigation to be carried out with an evaluation of the whole system. Workplaces should be safe for all people, whether they are members of the union or not, and whether they work in a workplace where there are collective agreements or not. Everyone must have a place to turn when the work environment is failing. Unfortunately, too many people are still injured or at worst killed every year in accidents at work. An evaluation can teach us more about what works well and what does not work well, so that we can learn from it and develop the system. Such an investigation also needs to provide answers on how to solve today's health and safety problems that are growing. It's about mental illness because of stress, because of bullying and because of sexual harassment. It is ill health that often affects women. Secondly, we want it to be easier for employees to report workplaces that are not doing well to the Swedish Work Environment Agency or to the Discrimination Ombudsman. A whistleblower function is needed where you can turn if necessary. It is much more difficult to highlight problems such as the manager touching me in the copying room or acting in another inappropriate way to a close colleague who is a safety representative than it is to raise problems with lack of protective equipment. Here a whistleblower function can make a very big difference. Thirdly, we want employers to assume their responsibilities and appoint safety representatives. The number of union members has decreased, which means that more and more workplaces do not have a local trade union organisation that can appoint a safety representative. Then the responsibility rests with the employer. Our solution to this is not what the government is proposing: to allow an organisation based on voluntary membership to represent workers in workplaces where they have no members. Our solution is that employers need to be more clearly informed about the responsibility they have to actually appoint safety representatives in the workplaces where safety representatives are lacking. Mr President, I would like to Today, the labour market and the problems with the working environment are different. More are employed by small companies, which are exempt from the requirement of a safety representative. The health and safety problems are different. We have learned this, not least from the Metoo movement, where testimony after testimony describes how women are subjected to sexual harassment from colleagues or managers and the mental ill health that this can lead to. We also see that there are large differences in sick leave between women and men, not least with regard to stress-related diseases and mental illness. Today's system works well to fix the fact that a saw machine at a sawmill cannot be switched off properly. But we do not believe that it works well enough in a workplace where the work environment problem consists of employees being subjected to sexual harassment or bullying. And although there are good attempts to shed light on how to work on these issues, for example through the handbook prepared by the Minister for Labour as President of the TCO, we believe that more needs to be done. Mr President, I would like to Lack of evaluation and follow-up is not just the point made by the Liberals. The Swedish National Audit Office and the Swedish Financial Control Agency have pointed to the need for evaluation of the system's effectiveness. Fundamental to systematic quality work is that you evaluate, change and follow up the effects of the changes, and the wheel goes around. This applies to systematic work environment management in the workplace, and it should also apply to the various systems that we have, such as the system of regional safety representatives. It is therefore very difficult to understand why there is such resistance to an evaluation of the system. Work environment issues are too important for us to let them fall between the chairs. We are now looking forward to the government, after today's decision, setting up an investigation and giving us answers on how we can improve the working environment for more people in more areas and in more areas of health and safety problems.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-659	Mr President, I would like to Lars-Lars-Joel Skott worked for a small construction company in Kalix when one November day he fell from a ladder and hit his head on a concrete floor. Lars-Lars-Joel was 56 when he died at work. After him, he left his wife Margaretha. If Lars-Lars-Joel had lived, he and Margaretha would have celebrated ten years of marriage last year. Last year, 46 people died at Swedish workplaces. Behind each death is a personal tragedy – children who have lost a parent, or who have lost their partner in life, colleagues who have lost a dear friend and colleague. Mr President, I would like to No one should have to die at work. We must do everything we can to prevent fatal accidents and serious accidents at work. The Regional Safety Officers have an important role here – yes, we know from research and proven experience that their work can ultimately be about life and death. The statistics speak clearly: the risk of ill health and serious accidents is higher in workplaces that lack their own local safety organisation, in workplaces that lack their own safety representative or where regional safety representatives do not have access. It is against this background that I have put forward the proposal to extend the right of access at Parliament's table. We know that safety representatives make a big difference. Ultimately, it is always the employer who is responsible for the work environment in the workplace, but the state has a very important role in prioritising efforts that promote a good work environment policy. Improving the ability of safety representatives to do their job is a concrete effort that you can make here in Parliament, and I can do to really improve the working environment for the employees. Before the coronapandemin I had the opportunity to go to Helsingborg to experience together with the trade union Building how their safety representatives work in southern Sweden, where the distance to the continent contributes to many foreign companies having operations. It is about over 1 000 foreign and Swedish construction companies where there are collective agreements but not members of a trade union. These are companies that Buildings cannot visit today but which the Government's proposal would allow access to. It is in these particular workplaces that a more active work environment is needed, and regional safety representatives are an important part of that. Their task is to get a local work environment thinking started, and they support both employees and employers in their daily work environment work. The Regional Safety Officers are usually able to detect risks and dangerous moments before incidents occur. They save lives. Mr President, I would like to Every third fatal accident in the construction industry occurs in workplaces where safety representatives today do not have access. The Government's proposal to increase access rights for regional safety representatives would really make a difference in order to increase security in Swedish workplaces. The Coronapandemia has really shown us the importance of local work environment work. The employer is always ultimately responsible for the working environment. This means that you as an employer must ensure that employees have protective equipment and a sustainable working environment, but it is also about the local collaboration with safety representatives having to work. Risk assessments should be made, and here we should be honest: there are shortcomings. The Swedish Work Environment Authority, on behalf of the Government, has carried out a national supervision of the working environment in elderly care, as mentioned earlier during the debate. Of the inspections carried out by the Swedish Work Environment Authority, it appears that most employers are deficient in their collaboration on the work environment and in making risk assessments. These are shortcomings that need to be addressed; employers have a duty to ensure that systematic work environment management works and that the staff and safety representative are involved in designing their work environment. Over the past few months, safety representatives throughout the country have been fighting for workers' rights to protective equipment. Through special safety rounds, the safety representatives have ensured that employees in our socially important activities, including healthcare and commerce, receive the right equipment and training to reduce the risk of infection. The regional safety ombudsmen have also played an important role here in filling the workplaces that lack a local safety representative. This crisis has really shown us how important it is to work together between safety representatives and employers. Mr President, I would like to Many have spoken in this debate about the importance of a good working environment, but when it comes to – when the possibility exists – a majority in this House votes against a legislation that even experts and researchers say would make a real difference. I have to say, it's too sad. We Social Democrats will continue to be on the side of employees. We will continue to fight for the safety representatives to have all the opportunities they need to carry out their vital job.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-672	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that I know that Eva Nordmark has a great and long commitment to health and safety at work. Nevertheless, I think it is important to mention it. However, I would like to have an answer to the question as to what the Minister concludes from the fact that the proposal has failed to be supported. We have heard the arguments of the other colleagues in the framework of the January agreement, and it should nevertheless say something that we have been so totally heard and unwilling to discuss and give and take on this issue. What conclusions does the Minister draw from this? We will vote in the Chamber shortly, Mr President, and that will fall. We will then evaluate it, but how will the Minister want to move on from it – so that we can take a strong stand on these issues together anyway? I could, of course, also say here about the rather remarkable fact that, in addition, only a few weeks ago, the Social Democrats said no to longer extended limitation periods for occupational health and safety offences. The other parties have also exercised it. I can therefore find that a little strange and remarkable in this context. What conclusions does the Minister draw from this, and how does the Minister intend to move forward so that we can sit down together and have a more constructive discussion in order to move forward on issues of substance policy? That is the most important thing, Mr President.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-676	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mats Green! I must say that further work is needed to discuss these issues. I also note extended hands in this House, and of course I appreciate that. Somewhere this is about what conditions we give people to really get a safe and safe working environment out there at our workplaces. I think this is very important, and the Moderates have a tradition of seeing the importance of competition neutrality in the Swedish labour market. What we are seeing now is that we have about 1 000 companies with both Swedish and foreign workers who, because there are no access opportunities, can actually carelessly with safety and work environment – and thus gain competitive advantage over the construction companies that are serious. With the long experience I have myself from the civil service movement, and with very good contact with many former moderate members of this Parliament, I know that within the Moderate Party there is both a deep and solid knowledge and a great commitment to ensuring competition neutrality and, ultimately, security and safety in our workplaces. I would therefore welcome if all of you Moderates who are currently sitting in the Swedish Parliament wanted to approach these issues constructively so that we can meet and ultimately ensure that it becomes a safe and safe working environment for everyone who works around the Swedish workplaces.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-679	Mr President, I would like to We still need to move forward on the subject, and then we have a number of issues to move forward with. I mentioned extended limitation periods earlier, and we also need to discuss safeguarding the Swedish model and involving employees and employers – as well as the public and government perspective, which needs to be strengthened so that you have more opportunities and can be clearer in the exercise of your authority. The Minister mentioned a number of workplaces where difficulties have been seen. Then we will have to say that it would have been difficult to see how it would have been handled there even if there had been an extended RSO system. The Liberals said here that it is quite strange when, among other things, we want to leave it to organisations based on voluntary membership to deal with what is actually the exercise of authority. Of course they have a role to play in this, but above all we need to ensure that the authorities and the public shoulder their responsibilities – also for the credibility of the system. Once again, we must also ensure that all workers who have chosen not to be members of a trade union organisation are involved. As I said, we have many discussions to take on these issues, because we need to move forward in terms of substance.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-682	Mr President, I would like to There were several different comments and questions there. As far as the limitation period is concerned, this is a discussion taking place within the government; we will have to come back to that. There are also a lot of misconceptions, I think, and perhaps some ignorance about the role of safety ombudsmen and regional safety ombudsmen. This activity must ensure that all employees are protected in all workplaces, regardless of whether they are a member of the union or not. It is very important that we talk about the right things here. You in the Moderates show your commitment to health and safety at work, and you speak very well of the working environment. However, I note that the health and safety at work was mentioned only once in the budget motion for the next financial year that the Moderates put on Parliament's table, and it was in the proposal that you had to close down the Agency for Safety and Health at Work. So the ambition is not very high. You also closed the Work Life Institute, which was a world-leading authority in occupational health and safety research. This was during the time that I myself was involved in the civil service movement. If the Moderates want to step forward here, I'm very happy about it. However, it is also a question of moving from words to action and of starting in this House by voting in favour of the concrete actions and measures that actually deliver results for real.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-687	Mr President, I would like to Work and working life can sometimes be about life and death, and safety representatives really make a difference in our workplaces. The government and the Minister for Labour have made it clear that we should have a zero vision. We Christian Democrats have also stated in our motions that it is natural for us to have a zero vision of death at work. Then one might wonder why the number of deaths does not decrease. Is this the only proposal that the government has to reduce the number of deaths at work, or will the government come up with any more decisive measures? After all, municipal has – partly – criticised the government for not doing more to protect the staff of elderly care. All of us MPs received an e-mail the other day from Kommunal saying that there is still one fifth of all safety representatives who find that there is no access to protective equipment. My question to the Minister is why she is not pushing for greater protection in health care and for those staff, so that the staff feels safe.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-691	Mr President, I would like to If there is anything you can feel safe about, Désirée, it is that I stand behind the employees every day. It is incredibly important that those who are safety representatives around the country's workplaces, not least in healthcare and care, and all those who handle covid-19 can feel safe in their role, that they have the opportunity to step in with a safety stop if necessary and to have their case tested and that they have access to the right protective equipment. This is absolutely crucial. As Minister for Labour, I support them every day of the week, and it is incredibly central that we politicians take the full responsibility that we can take. I believe that after this crisis we must evaluate what went wrong and what we could have done better. One thing that I think we can already say today is that it was wrong to abolish emergency stocks. I also believe that we can see that we were not sufficiently prepared in terms of protective equipment and the need for it. We have implemented a whole range of measures to ensure the availability of protective equipment. At the Ministry of Labour, we worked on a new regulation on a fast track that was about giving the Swedish Work Environment Authority the task of being able, together with Rise, in this case, to approve safe protective equipment and in this way forcefully increase the volumes of protective equipment to municipalities and regions. This has led to several million breathing masks and visors. I think it is incredibly central that we are now doing everything in our power to ensure that protective equipment and resources are provided to the Swedish Work Environment Agency, so that safety representatives have the right conditions for doing their job. That's where the Regional Safety Officers come in. They should be used as an important tool to ensure that all employees at Sweden's workplaces have the protection they need.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-695	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Employment, for your answer. Now the Prime Minister has finally said that a Commission should be set up to look at what might not always have gone so well. This is some that have not gone very well, and I think that the Minister for Labour could have been a little more loud than just giving the assignment to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. They've been swinging, too. The Public Health Authority's directive to municipalities has been swung. This lack of clarity has caused people to feel afraid. Some have not dared to go to work, and then it has become even worse for the others who have gone there. There is a great deal left to be sorted out in an unclear crisis organisation. There must be clarity in crisis organisations, and there is much to come back to here. Finally, I would like to ask why the Minister for Labour did not want to carry out this evaluation. I think the Minister for Labour knew that we were several parties that had put forward this demand before the Minister was going to present the proposal. What prevented the minister from doing an evaluation? Is the Minister afraid that something will come out that will not benefit the regional safety ombudsmen? And what does the government intend to do with the response to the bill that we have now given?
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-699	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I and the Government are in agreement with the announcement made by Parliament, and we will of course proceed with the evaluation that you have highlighted. Nevertheless, I think it is important to say this. These are many fine words, and there are also many hopes of what I, as Minister for Labour, will contribute. I'm glad, because there's a big responsibility on my shoulders. But so does this House. We have investigated the issue of regional safety representatives; there are a whole series of investigations and two recent state investigations. The latest of them points out that the proposal I am making today, namely to extend access rights for regional safety representatives, would make a big difference in our workplaces. Nor can we keep investigating for all eternity, but somewhere we need to move from words to action. I am disappointed that we in this House today cannot give the muscles that would be needed for regional safety representatives to ensure a better working environment in our workplaces.
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-702	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Employment for taking the time to take part in the debate at this time. I have noticed from the Minister for Labour that she is very committed to many issues relating to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. Unlike many other ministers, she is involved, and I think that is a good thing. I will not prolong this debate very much, but I have a few questions for the Minister. I agree with her a lot. I am pleased that she visited Skåne and the construction sites there, which are my old workplaces before I became a member of Parliament. I have a question for the Minister for Labour. Why not choose to go all the way when making such a proposal? Why not make a proposal that includes all Swedish workplaces and gives safety representatives the power to visit all Swedish workplaces without reservation? That must be the most reasonable thing today, right?
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-705	Mr President, I would like to After all, we have a Swedish model which means that nine out of ten are covered by collective agreements. It is very important that we continue to ensure this. That is the way I am assuming that everyone in this House wants us to go, namely to ensure that even more companies, and thus even more employees, are covered by collective agreements. I would like to ask Magnus Persson a question in connection with my visit down to Helsingborg. I was standing in Helsingborg next to Robert, who is a regional safety representative for Building. We saw a building where there were collective agreements and where Building had access. Next to it was another construction with only foreign labour where Buildings did not have access. Robert could point out to me and show that it was very doubtful whether the scaffolding there really was up to the mark. There is a great risk that the approximately 1 000 companies with Swedish and foreign workers who do not have members cheat with the work environment and thus attract competitive advantages by neglecting the health and life of their employees. How can the Swedish Democrats not want to contribute to our having control in these workplaces when it comes to health and life and to ensuring that they do not dump Swedish wages and conditions? Why don't the Swedish Democrats stand up for it?
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-710	Mr President, I would like to This is quite simple. With the Swedish Democrats' proposal, the regional safety representative Robert could have entered that workplace without reservation. You couldn't have denied him that. Our proposal gives access to all workplaces in Sweden. It's not weird. To stand here and claim that the Swedish Democrats contribute to wage dumping is a bit strong. Surely there is no party in this House that is so sceptical about seconded workers. We also want, for example, a means-tested labour migration. The Social Democrats also want that, but have had to give in to the Green Party on this issue. That feels a little preposterous. I have another question, too. Today there are thousands of employees in Swedish workplaces who are involved in the work environment and want to become safety representatives but are denied by unions with veto rights because they have a political affiliation that is not accepted. Does the Minister for Labour think that this is right at this time, when we have a problem with setting up safety representatives? There are many workplaces where no one wants to be a safety representative. Does the Minister for Labour think it is right to deny them the right to be a safety representative with this argument?
i-eb60e41cfb9f986a-713	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with the last one. Magnus Persson and I have discussed this before. During my 20 years as a trade union leader in the civil service movement, I have met many safety representatives and regional safety representatives. They are teachers, nurses, journalists, police, technicians, engineers, social secretaries and so on, and they have very different political opinions. Then this is how it is: If you are a member of the union or an employee in a workplace, you must be able to feel confident that the person who represents you if you are exposed in any way actually does so regardless of who you are and where you come from. It is for this reason that various trade unions are discussing these issues – how do we ensure that this person has both a mandate from his/her workplace and can stand up for the quality assurance that needs to be done by the safety representatives, so that you can be sure that all members will be equally represented? This is an important starting point. With regard to the access rights of regional safety representatives, the Swedish democrats have a somewhat unclear line, I have to say. You say that regional safety representatives should be abolished and replaced by some form of government officials. But today we have a combination. Through the Swedish partner model, we ensure that there are safety representatives and regional safety representatives out at our workplaces. They will get the local work environment started and ensure that all employees are covered by it. Then we have a supervisory authority in the form of the Swedish Work Environment Authority. Both different parts are needed to ensure a good working environment in Sweden.
