i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-6	Mr. Old President! Mattias Bäckström Johansson has asked me whether I intend to work to limit municipal self-determination in the establishment of wind power. Criticism has been expressed of the provision on municipal power in environmental testing of wind power plants. The criticism is that the provision gives wind power a special status in the environmental code because there are no regulated decision criteria and a decision on the strength can be changed during the process. The application of the provision is considered to be legally insecure and is indicated to have a negative impact on the duration of proceedings. This affects the ability and interest to invest in wind power. The Swedish Parliament, following a proposal from the Government, has adopted a target of 100 per cent of electricity production being renewable in 2040. The expansion of wind power is a central part of this development and of the ability to achieve that goal. Despite the special status of wind power in the environmental code, a positive trend in the expansion can be seen, but considerable efforts will still be needed to achieve the goal. It is therefore of great importance that the environmental test is characterised by efficiency and predictability. The Government has set up an investigation to review the provision on the municipal strength and make suggestions on how the provision can be removed and how the municipal influence can be provided in other ways. The investigation also includes looking at alternative solutions if there are no conditions for removing the provision. The committee directives also state that the study should describe the consequences for municipalities, and some of the proposals in the report affect the municipal self-government, the special balances that led to the proposals must be specifically reported. The purpose of the investigation is thus to make the environmental assessment of wind power plants more legally secure and predictable, not to limit municipal self-determination.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-12	Mr. Old President! I would like to start by thanking the Government for the answer to my interpellation. In the establishment of wind power, which constitutes environmentally hazardous activities in the legislation, municipalities currently have direct influence over the establishment through their municipal veto. In the establishment of larger licensed wind turbines, there are currently also requirements for the establishment to be actively supported by the municipality in order to be able to proceed with the environmental assessment. This means that the final decision on large establishments is taken as close as possible to the citizens, which is urgently needed from a democratic perspective. The Government highlights in its response that wind power has a special position in the environmental code. Then you might wonder why it has it. Well, it comes from the time when they had a trial under both the Planning and Construction Act and the Environmental Code. More than ten years ago, in 2009, simplification was sought to avoid these double procedures and the examination under both of these laws. What was specifically requested at the time was simplification, which landed in the municipal veto we have today. I think it is a concern that we are not satisfied with this simplification, but want to take another step. There is a reference to the industry, which wants to change the process, and there are more who want to make further restrictions on the municipal self-determination that exists. Mr. Old President! I think you have to understand that this affects people, engages people and gives people a strong sense of powerlessness. It is often about establishment in rural areas, in sparsely populated areas outside urban areas. They may have bought a property or built something where the family has chosen to settle down because they enjoy the environment with the conditions that have been there. Then comes a wind farm. It does not have to be about that; it could be about the establishment of a mine or any other industrial activity. That's what makes people worried. You feel that you want to know who decides on the establishment, where they should be and so on. To then start making further restrictions and in different ways to shift power from the politicians closest to the municipal citizens is, I think, very unfortunate. The Government describes the committee directives given to the inquiry, which explicitly states that if the report restricts local self-government, it should explain why it proposes this. That is precisely what concerns the Swedish Democrats – that they intend to make further restrictions on municipal self-government and that it can come to such boundaries. That is also my original question in the interpellation. I repeat my question, Mr President-in-Office: will the Minister and the Government work to further limit local self-determination? What will be most important for the government when the assessment is made when the proposal comes back?
i-2xRWtmtRVuWyFzFrdR6YrN	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, for this interpellation! I agree that it is important that we have a debate on this issue and that we are clear on what is the background to the investigation that the government has set up. Just as Mattias Bäckström Johansson refers to, there is a background where wind power establishment was given a unique special position in the environmental code. Unlike other types of energy, other activities– Mattias Bäckström Johansson mentioned mines – and just about everything else, there is a provision here that the municipality can veto without having to give any reasons. There is also no longer a time limit for when the municipality can do this, so you can change at a very late stage. This has been pointed out since the change was made, because in the past wind farms and wind power would be tested under the Planning and Construction Act at all. The reason for changing – this was under another government – was that they did not want a review to be made according to both the Environmental Code and the Planning and Construction Act. Therefore, the requirement for building permits and detailed plans for wind power installations, which are licensed according to the Environmental Code, was abolished. A decision on building permits or detailed plans is preceded by a specific process with a requirement for justification and established decision criteria. A decision on the power of the municipality, on the other hand, does not have to be justified, and there is no time limit, as I said. This has received a lot of criticism, from county boards, courts, authorities, some municipalities and operators. In conclusion, this criticism is that the provision is considered to be an obstacle to the review process, to provide a high level of legal uncertainty and to be ineffective. This is very serious criticism that the government needs to listen to. As early as 2017, the Swedish Energy Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency proposed to remove the provision on municipal power, not to limit municipalities' self-determination, but to make the process equivalent to that of other establishments. It is not just wind power that affects residents, neighbours and the like, but all activities. But it is also important that all activities are treated equally. Of course, democratic influence takes place on election day and in dialogue with the representatives of the municipality, including in all other matters. It is not just wind power that can stir up debate locally. This investigation will ensure that we can facilitate wind power creations but at the same time secure and accommodate municipal influence. What the investigator comes up with remains to be seen.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-29	Mr. Old President! I think that the Government avoids responding to what will weigh most when balancing the proposals contained in this report. Is it municipal self-determination that will weigh most and that one will lean on, or is it to simplify wind power installations and ensure that further restrictions on municipal self-determination are made? Here you lift up those who want to, but Sweden's Municipalities and Regions, for example, are opposed to further restrictions being made or the municipal veto being removed. The difference is that other industries that want to establish themselves fall within the plan monopoly and a detailed plan is required, which means a much more extensive process and involves people in a more structured and systematic way than is required for wind power thanks to this special status in the environmental code. This could at least be a possible return for the Swedish democrats: to take it through the Planning and Construction Act and to give the possibility of redress for a longer period of time. Another part of such a democratic process is the fact that we have elections every four years, where majority relationships can change. The Swedish Democrats think it is reasonable that if a majority changes after an election and there is an ongoing process, there should be an opportunity for the elected assembly to reconsider those decisions where the outcome has not gained legal force or to withdraw an ongoing work with a detailed plan. This happens in very many other cases when it comes to the establishment of industrial activities or where to build residential areas or schools – that there are changes based on what citizens have thought. Wind power shall not be in a special position in so far as it shall not be subject to the same conditions as other activities. The Government is welcome to come back to this. Do you think it should be reconsidered at all or not? It's not like the Wild West. For example, in trials by the Land and Environment Courts, it has already been established that one cannot take back a force after the judgment has been given. This has already been tried and is perfectly reasonable. But it should be very central in a democracy that there should be the opportunity to change the decision and the strength of the process, for example after an election when the people have said theirs. I would like the Government to respond to her opinion. Should you be able to change the decision you have made after an election, for example, when the majority has shifted, or should you not be able to do so? And what will weigh most for the government? Will it be municipal self-determination, or will these simplifications be more important?
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-34	Mr. Old President! I would like to explain what the directive has been issued to the investigation. The directives include identifying and analysing the objections raised by the municipalities in particular, but also by other actors, proposing how the problems identified could be resolved, proposing how the provision on municipal power can be removed and how municipal influence can be otherwise met, analysing the alternative proposals made and, if there are no preconditions, proposing some or some alternative solutions in response to the criticisms made against the application of Chapter 16. Section 4 of the Environmental Code, i.e. the municipal veto, including the possibility to have wind power tested also according to the Planning and Construction Act, which applies to many other environmentally hazardous activities according to the Environmental Code. My answer to Mattias Bäckström Johansson is that wind power establishment should not, in my opinion, have an absolute special status and be subject to special regulation according to the environmental code. This is also what we have asked the investigator to suggest – how to provide for municipal self-government in other ways. Indeed, as things stand, there is very great uncertainty about large establishments. I think that the Swedish Democrats also agree that if a major investment, wind power or something else has once been cleared, it will be very legal uncertainty if that decision can be amended at a later stage without it even having to be justified by any criteria. It is therefore a question of ensuring that we have a legally secure process for those who want to invest in wind power. This applies all the way down to two individual wind turbines with a height above 150 metres. Then you have a municipal veto, and that of course means a great deal of uncertainty for those who want to invest in wind power. I do not really want to set municipal self-determination against reasonable legal certainty for operators who invest millions of dollars. But the same conditions must apply to wind power as to other major industrial investments and other types of energy. This is exactly what this investigation is about to look at.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-38	Mr. Old President! Finally, I would like to thank the Government for the debate. However, I would like to say that if, as the Government puts it, it has been given the go-ahead and the judgment has been given, there is no possibility for the municipality to withdraw the active strength required by the Environmental Code. So it is not really about the Wild West as a matter of fact. It may also be that a detailed plan is changed or that decision-making processes, for example after an election, have a different outcome than expected. It is therefore more similar to the processes that apply when handling according to the Planning and Construction Act. But a return to these conditions would absolutely mean maintaining the municipal self-determination and the planned monopoly that exists and leading to the management of wind power like other establishments. These very conflicts may arise around other future land use interests or people's opportunities to influence these processes. It is important to take this seriously as an important part of our democratic processes. On the part of the Swedish Democrats, it is important to emphasise that it is important to safeguard local self-determination and that it is at the lowest level, with the local politicians, that the decision should be made because they are best placed to make decisions on the matter. That is why we will strongly oppose any further restrictions on municipal self-government, should it land in it. For us, that is of course what we will prioritise in those situations. We will therefore not help to reduce democratic influence.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-41	Mr. Old President! First of all, I am pleased to note that there is a very rapid expansion of wind power in Sweden today. This means that we in Sweden export large quantities of clean, green energy to our neighbours and to the continent. This is a very positive development. We also see that wind power can produce electricity at very competitive prices, which means that, for example, the nuclear companies no longer see the conditions for investing in new nuclear power in Sweden. We see this as very positive. With regard to this mission and the issue of the municipal veto, it is clear that the investigator will engage in dialogue with municipalities, authorities and others on these issues. The investigator also has the task of proposing how the problems identified can be solved. Only if there are conditions should the investigator suggest how the municipal permit rule can be removed and how municipal influence can be satisfied in other ways. If there are no conditions for removing the provision, the investigator shall look at alternative proposals. There is therefore a clear direction on the part of the government. This should be resolved in a good way. There should be legal certainty for those who invest millions in wind farms, but municipal self-government should of course continue to apply with the same conditions as for everyone else. In a legal process, the municipality can change during the process, even in a higher instance. With this investigation, the Government wants to facilitate the transition and ensure that the environmental code's review system is legally secure and effective.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-46	Mr. Old President! Johan Hultberg has asked me whether I intend to return to Parliament with a final bill on a new law on the transfer of boats in some cases. And if so, when. He has also asked whether it is reasonable that in some cases the proposal for a new law on the transfer of boats has been prepared for more than ten years without a final proposal having been put on Parliament's table. Let me be clear: it is the owner who should take care of a wreck or ensure that a worn-out boat is not abandoned. However, I am well aware of the problem of scrap boats in particular, and that is why we have been working on a legislative proposal that will make it easier to move scrap boats. As I said, abandoning boats in nature or elsewhere is irresponsible. The situations that may give rise to the need to move boats, including scrap boats, are different, but the main reason should be that they litter ne d and may pose a danger to the environment. These are mainly small vessels, from clean recreational craft up to barges and barges. In the commission given by the Government to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the work suggests how the problems of littering and end-of-life boats could be limited. One of the proposals is about the possibility for a municipality to take care of littering and end-of-life boats. In order to be able to track an owner more easily, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency also proposed the introduction of a register for recreational craft. Among the proposals in the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's report, we have prioritised the relocation of littering and end-of-life recreational craft. As Johan Hultberg rightly points out, there is a referral from the Ministry of the Environment about boats and scrap boats with suggestions on how the issue of, among other things, scrap boats can be dealt with. With regard to the issue of scrap boats and their disposal, it has taken longer than we wish to come up with a legislative proposal. As I mentioned in the parliamentary question earlier this year, I cannot give any specific time when a final proposal can be submitted to Parliament. This is today an area of lack of regulation, which is why future regulation must be carefully investigated.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-52	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister for the Environment, for your answer, even if it is a response that is deeply unsatisfactory. Let me give a little background to my interpellation and maybe a little timeline. In 2007, Statskontoret was tasked with investigating who should have the right or obligation to take care of, clean up or move ownerless boats. This assignment was presented by Statskontoret the following year, and it then presented a number of proposals to address the problems that wrecks and ownerless boats can pose. The following year, i.e. 2009, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was commissioned to propose a system for the disposal of end-of-life boats, as well as to look at a system for dealing with abandoned, littering recreational craft. The Environmental Protection Agency presented its 2011 report, which suggested, among other things, that municipalities should be given the opportunity to dispose of ship wrecks, and it was this proposal that the government then went ahead with and referred in a memorandum on the relocation of boats and scrap boats. In that memorandum, the government had a proposal which I think is fundamentally good, namely that one should be allowed to move boats in some cases: if a boat is problematic from an environmental or safety point of view, if it is littering or if it has been dumped or left on someone else's land and the landowner wants the municipality to help remove the wreck or abandoned boat. The proposal was thus referred back in 2012. Then it's stranded on the government table, at the Department of the Environment. Mr. Old President! I can understand that we have bigger and more important environmental problems and issues to address, but this is, after all, a problem from an environmental point of view and given that we want an attractive archipelago and attractive lakes and seas that invite to outdoor life and that benefit tourism and the tourism industry and, of course, the local residents. This proposal, as I see it, has good support, and yet nothing happens. The former Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog was asked about this in 2006– I'm sorry, of course it should be in 2016; thankfully, the Green Party has not been in government for so long! – and then the answer was that the question is being prepared in the Government Office. Now we are here in 2020, soon 2021, and the government's answer is still that the question is being prepared in the Government Office. It was against this background that I laughed at when the Minister said in his reply: So it is said that priority has been given to this, but it was referred back in 2012, and since then nothing has happened. There is no information on the concrete preparation measures that have been taken. I have asked a written question as to when the proposal will come. Then I got a non-answer that the case is being prepared. I understand if the Minister now sees me as a bitch, but it is against the background that this has taken an extremely long time. Why doesn't anything happen? Now the Minister for the Environment once again says that the issue is being prepared in the Government Office. Then, of course, I would like to know: what kind of processing measures are being taken? What is the problem that has been revealed? What are the government's concerns? Do you want to take a greater grasp of the issue and make a major legislative change, or why has the question once again failed at the Ministry of the Environment?
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-60	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Johan Hultberg, for the questions and for the interest! I really share the view that this is a problem that we need to do something about. There are currently obvious loopholes in regulation. We have up to 1 million pleasure boats in the country. There's no real record of it. Since we don't have a boat register, we don't really know how many there are. But it's an estimate. On this issue, we share a picture of problems. I very much hope that we can find solutions to this problem without preconditions and bring them forward. The government's priority is that we should tackle the marine environment as a whole. Therefore, the Environmental Objectives Committee has been given a mandate to look at how we will achieve the environmental quality targets for seas, lakes and watercourses. I look forward very much to the proposals that will come from the Environmental Objectives Committee in that process. What did the government do? I note that the timeline described by Johan Hultberg is largely true and that the Ministry of the Environment produced a memo on the relocation of boats and scrap boats in 2012. So it was under the alliance government. A Code of Conduct was launched in 2012, but it never ended. What has happened since this government took office? Yes, among other things – I can admit that the written reply I gave to the honourable Member earlier did not show – we have had Swedish access to the Nairobi Convention on the Removal of Wrecks, the so-called Wreck Convention. The Swedish Parliament approved the Government's proposal for Swedish access to the Convention in summer 2017, and the necessary legislation entered into force in February 2018. The reason why we and the department paused work on a law to move boats and scrap boats was that we did not want to cause a conflict between the two pieces of legislation. Our proposal for the relocation of boats and scrap boats must not be in breach of international obligations under the wreck convention. Now that access is complete, we have again begun to prepare the proposal, and we are taking into account the provisions of the wreck convention. For the Convention to apply, the consequence must be that the abandoned boat or wreck can be expected to cause significant damage to the marine environment. This is something we analyse further. For example, what is significant harm? Have we taken any account of Statskontoret's 2007 report? Answer yes. Statskontoret focused on ownerless boats and the littering of boats but also, in the second part, on the clean-up of wrecks. This is where the government has really taken a strong stance. Since 2018, the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management receives SEK 25 million per year for exploration and salvage of oil and ghost yarn from ship wrecks, from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's grant for contaminated areas. We have mapped the environmentally hazardous wrecks in Swedish waters and are now conducting oil salvage operations. It is very costly, but it is a work that the government has begun. Otherwise, I look forward to continuing work on this issue.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-69	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister for the Environment, for the supplementary answer. It was a little more informative. It gave an explanation of why the proposal has once again failed. Why it was stranded earlier can be discussed. Of course, I would also have liked the alliance government to have been able to get this law in place quickly as early as 2013, but I have some respect for the need for them to be referred and dealt with further. The fact that it has taken eight years, I think, to say the least, is remarkable, because this creates enormous frustration for those concerned. For example, in my municipality of residence, Tanum, we have a rather attentive problem outside Hamburgsund. There are a number of boats that are lying around and that have been doing it for a long time. They are located just outside the entrance to the community, where leisure traffic and fishermen pass daily. It is a practical problem that they are partly in the way, but above all they are littering. It looks boring, and it's kind of a disgrace to an otherwise amazing place and environment. I have had contact with several others who have this problem. One emailed me and told me that he was the chairman of a community association that had a boat club. There boats had been lying for about ten years, and they were not able to move them. It is a great frustration when unity has no legal means to solve the problem. They turn to the municipality, but the municipality dares not do anything. They are afraid that it will be perceived as arbitrary procedure, and they do not have the law on their side when it comes to acting. This is a problem that we already have today throughout Sweden – in lakes, in canals and along our coasts. We can also fear that the problem will be greater, because, as the Minister for the Environment mentioned, there are many pleasure boats. A lot of people are old. The vast majority of boat owners are committed and responsible people who take care of their boats and in no way are part of the problem. But of course there are some bad eggs that don't, and then there must be legal tools to deal with those problems. That's what my interpellation is about. I have also drawn up a motion on this issue, which looks a little further at the problems involved here and which the Minister was addressing in his second reply. I do not think it is appropriate to introduce a boat register. I think it costs more than it tastes, so to speak. I think there will be too much bureaucracy and too much costs. But I think it is basically a good idea with some kind of producer responsibility. The industry and many different stakeholders have been quite positive about this. The problem with the proposal previously examined was that it was a retroactiveity in the proposal. Those who buy boats today would pay for the environmental debt, and that is not quite reasonable. I think, for example, that the scrapping premiums introduced by this government to deal with end-of-life recreational craft could be included in a fund, where the state initially takes part in the cost responsibility for dealing with some of the historical problem. Then, of course, new boat sales, so to speak, will finance the future management of end-of-life boats. Then we get good environmental management. Mr. Old President! This is about the government having to act and get moving. As I said, the Convention entered into force in 2018. Now it is 2020 and soon 2021. I hope that this proposal or a similar proposal can come into force soon.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-76	Mr. Old President! I would like to start by saying once again that I share the view that this is a problem that we do not really have tools to deal with today. There are questions about producer responsibility, ownership register and how to solve this. As legislation stands today, it is the owner of a boat who has a responsibility. You're supposed to make sure you don't litter in nature. Above all, do not dump a boat that contains environmentally harmful substances. That's breaking the law. We have problems with supervision and being able to search for someone who may have left his boat at a boat club. You may have left boats wind by wave, and they can drift into a nature reserve. It's extremely irresponsible. There have been proposals in the past to establish a register of ownership. It can be said that during the time of the alliance government there was no interest in going ahead with that particular part. It is clear that different types of producer responsibility can be envisaged. I think we need to take steps forward in that part. Where is it going to be? Then what Johan Hultberg mentioned about retroactive debt was interesting. It is also a well-known fact that boats are very persistent. The nearly 1 million boats that exist today are there, and somehow they are to be disposed of. There are more boats coming out on the market, but there are very few in relation to the boats that already exist. Therefore, careful consideration needs to be given to how such a thing could be designed. The issue is important, and I look forward, as I said, to the Environmental Objectives Committee, which has looked at the entire marine environment widely. I also believe that the issue of recreational craft is covered in different ways. It is a very positive cooperation and a process in which all parties in Parliament are involved. So we can find common solutions to these kinds of problems, which we need to address in order to achieve our common environmental objectives. To say something more about the clean-up of wrecks, something is really needed. There are many wrecks with increasing rust that are now in danger of starting to emit oil, diesel and other things, and the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management is therefore tasked with remedying these. They have made an inventory, and the next project is the wreck Skytteren on the west coast. It is considered to be the most environmentally hazardous in Swedish waters with an estimated 400 - 500 cubic meters of oil left in the wreck. This is a wreck that has been lying for a very long time, and it is very unfortunate that it has not been fixed before. Now we have a process for it, which is at least a major step forward.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-83	Mr. Old President! In the depths of the sea, there are many hidden environmental problems that we need to address. It is good that the government has addressed the problems of these major wrecks carrying oil and chemicals and also has loads that are an environmental problem. What we are discussing a little more specifically in this interpellation debate is a minor environmental problem. After all, it is often smaller recreational craft, small fishing boats or the like that in themselves may not carry so much harmful to the environment but that litters and which, of course, when broken down turns into microplastics and other environmental problems what it suffers. I think it is excellent that the Environmental Objectives Committee is working on a broad marine environmental mission, but we must not as well confuse ourselves in the big work and forget the concrete, a little less problems. After all, the environmental objectives are designed to focus on the major, long-term environmental challenges that require us to reach agreement, preferably across party and block boundaries, and which provide a focus for policy. This is a more, if the term is allowed, hands-on environmental problem, where we lack tools in legislation. Therefore, I will continue to be a small nail in the eye of the Minister for the Environment so that something happens in the department. I do not want to have to stand here in three four years' time and ask the successor of the Minister for the Environment why nothing has happened and why the proposal is still stranded. I very much hope that the lawyers at the Ministry of the Environment can sort out the situation with the Nairobi Convention and come back with a sharp proposal so that municipalities, landowners, marina owners, local people and others who are experiencing this problem feel that something is finally happening. I know that a great many people perceive a great disregard. Nothing's happened in ten years. Now it has to happen. Thank you for the debate.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-88	Mr. Old President! Thank you again, Johan Hultberg, for the interest in an issue in which I share the commitment! The government intends to move forward precisely by seeing how we complement the measures that need to be taken in relation to the Nairobi Convention. We still need to weigh up the proposals that have come from our authorities. It was also the case that the Alliance Government referred its proposal, but then it never went ahead with it. In the 2012 budget bill, the Government Reinfeldt not consider it clear that the costs of setting up and maintaining a register outweigh the benefits of this. Maybe this is something you should look at again. Although the vast majority who own a boat love the sea and really want to protect our common nature, there are, as Johan Hultberg said, rotten eggs that just drop their boat wind by wave or leave it. It may also happen that someone dies and it falls into oblivion. There is also today a responsibility with the owner of a boat. Whether you have a small sign with who owns the boat or not, it is this one who has the legal responsibility, and until we have been able to move forward on this issue, I would really like to emphasise this responsibility from the Parliament's pulpit. No one should think it's okay to just drop your boat wind by wave and let someone else take that responsibility.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-92	Mr. Old President! Marléne Lund Kopparklint has asked me how I intend to work to counteract an extended ban on lead, which in practice means a ban on hunting with lead hail for the country's hunters and how I intend to work to facilitate the country's hunters and sportsmen in their practice of sports and hunting. Sten Bergheden has asked me whether I will do anything to counteract the new decision, which more or less prohibits the use of lead in ammunition. Mr. Old President! At a vote in the REACH Committee in September, a large majority of EU Member States voted in favour of a ban on lead ammunition in wetland. The ban is similar to the ban already in place in Sweden. So this does not mean a total ban on hunting. After the REACH Committee has voted on a proposal, the time has come for the European Commission to present the proposal to the European Parliament and the Council, which, if they believe that the Commission has gone beyond its powers, may object to the decision. Last week, a majority in the EU Board stated that Sweden would vote against the adoption of the ban in the Council, which was also the case. However, in order for the Council to object to the ban, a qualified majority is required. Such a majority was not achieved. Mr. Old President! REACH is a harmonised regulatory framework in the field of chemicals and is directly applicable in the Member States. The aim is to protect human health and the environment and to promote the internal market by ensuring that the same rules apply throughout the EU. Member States have very little or, in some cases, no opportunity at all to introduce national rules in this area. The subsidiarity principle was taken into account when deciding REACH, and the EU legislator then concluded that the Regulation is compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. Through REACH, Member States have left it to the Commission to decide on this type of ban. The REACH ban is taken by the Commission with the support of a committee, the so-called REACH Committee. The Member States are represented in the Committee and the Committee's decision is taken by a vote in which the Member States participate. A ban requires a solid scientific basis on the harmful effects of the substance on human health and the environment. It must also be demonstrated that alternative substances or methods can be used instead. Lead is not just any substance – it is one of the most dangerous substances known to mankind, both to human health and to the environment. Lead affects the nervous system and brain development and leads to lower intelligence, and it is particularly harmful for unborn children and during the first years of life. The effects already occur at extremely low doses, and any exposure, however small, is considered to lead to harmful effects. Only a very small proportion of fired lead hail hits the target. The rest of the hail spreads in the environment. Some 5 000 tonnes of lead hail are spread in EU wetlands every year, and this is estimated to lead to the death of approximately 1 million seabirds from lead poisoning. For a small bird, a single hail can be fatal. Even people who eat seabirds shot with lead hail may be exposed to lead. The EU ban uses the wetland efinition of the International Ramsar Convention, which is the only agreed uniform definition of wetland available. I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that Sweden is a party to the Convention and has therefore supported this definition. That basically the whole of Sweden consists of wetland according to this definition is a misconception. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency estimates that 20 per cent of Sweden's surface area could be defined as wetland according to Ramsar's definition. The ban voted for by the REACH Committee means that it is forbidden to carry lead ammunition while hunting in wetland. The reason for this regulation is that the ban would otherwise not be supervisory. The ban does not mean an end to hunting in wetland, but only that hunters have to switch to other ammunition. There are now fully operational alternatives to lead ammunition in the EU market. In the vast majority of cases, it will also be possible to use the same weapon. My assessment is that the ban, which, despite Sweden's objection in the Council, will be implemented, does not threaten hunting or shooting. But whoever's going to hunt in wetland will have to use an ammo without lead. It will be good for the environment and ultimately also for human health.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-104	Mr. Old President! As expected, the EU Council of Ministers has now approved the European Commission's proposal for a ban on lead hail in wetlands. Sweden voted against following a majority decision by the EU Board the previous week. It was a decision that allowed the government to back off its previous yes-line. This ban will enter into force two years after the publication of the regulation. If, on the other hand, Sweden chooses to impose a total ban on all lead hail, it will be a transitional period of 36 months. Mr. Old President! The positive thing about this is, as the Government has also replied, that the Commission has opened up the possibility for Member States to make national definitions of what is wetland. Then the question is settled because Sweden already has a ban on lead hail when hunting for wetlands or when hunting over shallow parts of the open sea to reduce the presence of lead in the environment. Mr. Old President! In the past, the lead ban has been carefully investigated on a scientific basis, and it has been concluded that it is justified in real wetlands. It is a good and well-motivated existing ban from an environmental perspective. After the government has also received a clear message from the EU Council about where we stand on this issue, I assume that Sweden is based on the definition of wetland that we already have today. Mr. Old President! I wish this were the case, but I still think that there are certain questions that I would like to clarify in this debate. It actually sounds a little strange that you first make a decision to define superstrict but then let all countries decide for themselves anyway. What was the purpose of the decision – especially when 24 countries, including Sweden, already have a lead hail ban on wetland? Mr. Old President! On the question of the presumption of innocence, the EU wants to introduce a reversal of the burden of proof for the holder of lead hail cartridges in wetlands, that is to say, to be considered guilty until proven guilty. A hunter caught with a lead shot in his pocket would thus be found guilty until proven guilty, which is contrary to our basic legal principle of presumption of innocence. Nor will there be any exceptions for the sportsman. A sportsman with lead hail could be convicted of hunting crimes, even though a person with shotguns on a goal-shooting license is not allowed to hunt with this weapon. It's a crime that would probably mean that the shooter loses his gun licenses. How should this be handled by the government in the light of the basic rules in Sweden that one is innocent until proven guilty? Mr. Old President! The Government then concluded that lead is not just any substance but one of the most dangerous substances known to mankind against human health and the environment. I know that. Of course, lead is a life-threatening substance, but here we must still distinguish between bioavailable lead and metallic lead, which is actually what we should talk about in this debate – and then lead oxide is extremely stable. Otherwise, the Government and the Government must immediately dig up all the old telephone lines that are lead-insulated. This is about 200 000 tonnes of lead that is buried in Swedish soil, fairly close to the surface. Most often the cables are at a depth of 60 centimetres. Although this may not be necessary because the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency investigated the issue in a report 13 years ago which concluded: Clearly, non-negligible amounts of lead are released from a large stock. However, soil dispersion is severely limited, which should have a small impact on the environment.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-111	Mr. Old President! I thank the Minister for his answer, although the answer breathes a lot that this is not the fault of the government, but that it is the European Union that has come to the conclusion that it should be so. Both the Green Party and the Social Democrats have actively pursued a line in the EU to extend the ban on the use of lead ammunition. Sweden's line has been, by a large majority, not to extend the ban. That was also the line the government had to take in the last vote in the Council of Ministers. It is certainly not good when the government first pursues a certain line in the talks and deliberations taking place in the European Union. Of course, the government should have agreed early on with the Riksdag, and even then established itself according to Parliament's will, on what line it should have taken in the talks with the EU. All power in these matters is handed over to REACH. That is completely unreasonable, regardless of when these decisions were taken. Reach's influence needs to be reconsidered. It is precisely such decisions that cause people to lose confidence in the EU and want to leave the EU. This is not good because we need Europe. Then you should not abuse the EU's work. Mr. Old President! Even though Sweden has a functioning system today and more reasonable restrictions on our wetlands, it is therefore clear that the government operates other lines in the EU in the hope that the tougher rules will then force Sweden to tighten the requirements further. The EU is therefore trying to run Sweden over on the issues. Sweden already has restrictions that work today. What is not working in today's restrictions, Minister? On what grounds and what investigations do you social democrats and environmentalists build your decisions? Where is the evaluation that shows that Sweden's already restrictive stance on the lead issue is not enough here in Sweden? We should go further and look at the problems that exist before we go to the EU on a loose footing. Mr. Old President! The government would of course have pointed out from the outset that there are good restrictions in Sweden that work, but instead you take a position contrary to the will of a majority in Sweden. The Green Party and the Social Democrats have harmed the country's hunters and shooters on completely unscientific grounds, made it criminal to have shotguns in the pocket in some places, made it difficult for hunters and shooters to train and compete, to postpone for hunters and participate in competitions and made it impossible to use certain shotguns. It is difficult to participate in the hunting trails that exist today. Even more serious is the mistrust you have of Sweden's hunters, the Minister. If a hunter or shooter has a shotgun cartridge in his hunting coat and on his way out to the ground or the shooting track passes through a wetland, the hunter or shooter is thus guilty of a hunting crime. Then the license will be compromised. What do you think about Sweden's hunters and shooters – do you think they sneak around and try to commit crimes using lead hail in the wetlands? I can promise the Minister that neither hunters nor shooters will take that risk, because they are afraid of both their honour and their licenses. I do not understand why the government can agree to such a bad proposal that risks turning hunters and shooters into lawbreakers without the will to do so even being with them. Mr. Old President! I have a few questions. What studies indicate that Sweden's already strong protection of wetlands is not enough? According to the Minister, those crossing a wetland with lead hail cartridges in their coat pocket are committing a crime? Who will carry out the checks? Are they all to be searched on wetlands, or are they just hunters and shooters?
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-119	Mr. Old President! I thank Members for having this debate. I am deeply concerned that the Moderates are expressing such great doubts about the REACH Regulation. It is a regulation that Sweden has been very active in getting into place at EU level, and it is one of the great successes of EU cooperation. It has made it possible to phase out quantities of very dangerous and environmentally dangerous chemicals. For example, we have the possibility to group ban PFAS, chemicals that cause birth defects. I would like to remind the Moderates that we have an open internal market, and that is a good perspective from that point of view. Swedish pregnant women should not be exposed to dangerous chemicals when buying goods marketed on the open European market. Such risks should not be exposed. We live in an open world, don't we, fellow Members of the Moderates? You normally defend that. What it means is that we have a common REACH regulation and legislation is that we have given the competence to the European Commission, with its Scientific Committee, to carefully investigate which substances are to be restricted – or banned, when there are alternatives. In the case of lead hail, there are alternatives. There's steel, and there's bismuth. Most of the options are good enough for the weapons that exist. It is not that I make that assessment, Marléne Lund Kopparklint, but it is the EU's own scientific committee, which has really investigated this. Then there is lead in other infrastructure and out in nature, but two errors do not make a right. Here the assessment has been made that lead hail in wetlands is not good, and I understand that we share that concern. With regard to the REACH regulation, I would really like to emphasise that it is not the case that the Member States should now have opinions that this should be their own legislation at the levels of different Member States. If Sweden were to postpone this proposal, it would mean that other Member States would not be able to impose national bans, because this is regulated jointly by the EU. I hope that the Moderates will remember that and that they will remember the whole process that led us to actually have common chemicals legislation at European level. It's extremely important. What Marléne Lund Kopparklint says about that one can have a national definition is not true. Instead, it is the Commission's proposal that applies, and it is based on the Ramsar Convention. Wetlands are defined there as vegetation-covered area where the water surface is close to below, at or near above the surface and where the water level is allowed to vary with the natural seasonal variations. This is, therefore, in accordance with the Ramsar Convention, which we have signed. The highly exaggerated assertions that have been made that the whole of Sweden is covered are also not true. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency estimates that this applies to 20 per cent. Sten Bergheden asks if I think you sneak around and want to be a criminal. Absolutely not! On the other hand, enforcement of the ban is virtually impossible, but it is up to everyone to live up to it.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-126	Mr. Old President! Now I think the Government is trying to twist this a little. We in the Moderates are not against REACH. We are not against their work against dangerous chemicals, but that is not what this debate is about. I think we should get back to what it's all about. I wonder how the Council of State can stand in one breath and talk about how dangerous lead is for newborn babies – it is, if the child ingests it – and in the next breath say that a very small proportion of fired lead hail hits the target and that the rest of the hail spreads into the environment. It's not that these hails fly right into the BB and end up in the mouth of newborn babies. However, that is the picture you could get when listening to the Government, and I really do not think that we should spread such unnecessary fear to new parents. Mr. Old President! I would also like to raise the issue of the birds. 5 000 tonnes of lead hail spread in EU wetlands every year and this is estimated to lead to the death of about 1 million seabirds from lead poisoning. However, it is well known that lead poisoning can occur when, for example, ducks ingest lead hail together with the small gravel they need to break down food, and that is precisely why 24 countries in the EU – among them Sweden – have already implemented a ban on the use of lead hail in shallow wetlands. Since only a few countries do not have a ban on lead, this is a relatively small problem, which is best solved by lobbing against those countries on the part of Sweden and other countries. Mr. Old President! Like the Government, I protect birds, but I also realise that I cannot, for example, propose a curfew for domestic cats just because there are different estimates that show that 13 million birds are taken by cats every year in Sweden. Among other things, the Nature Conservation Association refers to those calculations. There are a large number, may seem, but then you calculate that there are more than 1.4 million cats in Sweden. There is also a British study published in the scientific journal Nature, according to which each outdoor cat takes an average of twelve birds a year. According to the journal Research & Progress's review in this area, cats annually eradicate 60 species of birds and other vertebrates in the world. If the Government really protected birds so much, then perhaps she should introduce curfews for domestic cats instead of discussing lead hail bans, Mr. President-in-Office of the Council. How did the government really mean when she made the connection with scattered lead hail that missed the target and that newborn babies can get injuries? I wonder, in particular, with regard to the Environmental Protection Agency's report, which I mentioned, which concluded that the spread of lead in the soil is severely limited and should have little impact on the environment. The millions of birds that die because of Sweden's 1.4 million domestic cats are 12 times more than all the seabirds that die from lead poisoning in all wetlands throughout the EU, Mr President of the Age. I'm buying the situation with the domestic cats. I like cats, even though I think it's depressing when I think about it. But I wonder how the Government thinks about this fact. I do not want to ban cats from going out, but I wonder what steps this government will take the next time it will push matters. I will stay with the two questions.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-132	Mr. Old President! It is clear that the government's influence on the REACH Committee has not been used to protect Sweden's interests. Instead, another line has been taken in that part, which resulted in this decision. Sweden today has good regulations and restrictions on wetlands, and they work well. Of course, it would have been good if more people in Europe had done like Sweden on these issues, but we do not really need to go any further. Mr. Old President! Who's the government planning to watch the wetlands and control this? Who's going to search all the recreational people, hunters and shooters that pass by? Is it the police? If it is forbidden to have ammunition in your pocket, you must search everyone who is in wetlands; it may be that someone for some reason has a shotgun cartridge in his pocket. Or will you distinguish between people and people in these controls? Apparently, this government is prepared to deploy police and control resources to search hunters and shooters while gang criminals shoot on the open street of our cities. Is it not time to begin to tackle the real problems and ensure that illegal ammunition and weapons are removed from our streets and squares? However, this government, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, are clearly prepared to deploy police resources to search hunters and shooters. Those of you who listen can hear how stupid this is. Mr. Old President! I would like to repeat the questions to which I did not receive an answer; being able to ask questions to the Minister is the basis for an interpellation. What studies indicate that Sweden's already strong protection of wetlands is not enough? According to the Minister, do those who pass through wetland with lead hail cartridges in their pocket commit a crime? Who will carry out the checks? Are they all to be searched in the wetlands, or are they just hunters and shooters? Why did the government not listen to the Swedish Parliament before negotiating our mandate and our influence on the issue in the EU? Mr. Old President! Some representatives of the Green Party usually try to point out that they do like hunters and that they think that game meat is both good and climate smart. At the same time, the party operates a line that prohibits the ammunition. I can tell the Minister that climate-smart game meat or the management of our game tribes is impossible if we are now trying to ban the ammunition for hunters in Sweden. But now it is actually the case that the decision has given each country an opportunity to classify their wetlands itself, which means that it is not 20 per cent of Sweden's surface that should be wetland, as the Minister said in the answer, but a significantly lower figure. This is a question that Sweden itself has to decide. This classification cannot then be made by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency according to Ramsar's definitions, but should be made after the Riksdag's decision. Now that Sweden itself can decide this, it is obvious that the matter needs to be brought to the attention of the Riksdag and decided on by the Riksdag – not just by the Government and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. I now assume that Parliament will be able to take part in this form. Mr. Old President! I would like to ask the Minister: will the Riksdag be allowed to participate in defining which wetlands should be included in this, or will the government itself, together with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, classify this?
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-140	Mr. Old President! Sten Bergheden not only questions the fact that we have agreed at European level on the REACH Regulation, but he also clearly questions the fact that we have ratified the Ramsar Convention and that we have ratified the Convention on migratory birds, which requires Member States to restrict lead hail in wetlands. This is also the reason why Sweden introduced such a ban in 2002. It is not the Riksdag that should decide on scientific criteria for wetlands. That is not what we have signed up to in these conventions. This is not what we went into when we joined the European Union or when we decided on a completely thorough and very effective and good framework for limiting environmentally harmful chemicals in the REACH regulation. It is a very interesting view that the Moderates express here – that the Riksdag should decide on scientific criteria and that we should release and go alongside regulations that are important for human health and for the open internal market in the European Union. I'll move on to the questions. Are there supposed to be cops in every bush? Speaking of the ban that the honourable Member is so extremely pleased with, which we have had since 2002, there have not been police officers in every bush – not a single person has been charged with using lead hail in wetlands. Yet it is a ban, and yet it is up to everyone to live up to that ban. That must continue to apply. Marléne Lund Kopparklint thinks it is highly exaggerated to say that 5,000 tons of lead hail ends up in babies' mouths at the BB because they do not hit the target. I would like to stress that lead is extremely toxic at extremely low concentrations. It has not been possible to find a minimum threshold for effects, and it is assumed that every molecule to which humans or animals are exposed can have harmful effects. Lead has effects on the nervous system, which for birds may mean that they cannot find food– they get confused. They can't reproduce either. A single hail is deadly to a small bird. Haglet also spreads in nature. It remains in land and seabeds; it can poison seabirds for a very long time. Even predators and scavengers can be poisoned when they in turn eat poisoned birds. This enters the ecosystem. Of course, a pregnant woman, or a woman of childbearing age, in a fine restaurant may eat an ancestral breast contaminated with lead hail; that is quite possible. This is not a risk we need to take, because there are alternatives to lead hail. It's possible to use steel hail or bismuth, and then we'll do it – that's the substitution principle. We agree on this principle; we have always agreed on this in the past. I must strongly oppose these enormous exaggerations as to what the common REACH regulation and this ban would mean for Sweden and for Swedish hunters. We believe that this is a perfectly reasonable ban that has been decided on the basis of scientific criteria.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-147	Mr. Old President! I note that the Government continues on this course by twisting what I say. I think about this with children and the danger of lead, because that's not really what I said. However, I am going back to the debate we had earlier, because I think we should stick to the things I have actually said and what this debate is about. Instead of carrying all the questions and concerns that I, along with many hunters and sportsmen, carry, I want to feel confident that it will actually be as the Government has stood here and said, namely that this decision will in no way threaten the hunt and the sportsman in Sweden. But then the government says to use ammunition other than lead. Then it becomes problematic, because many hunters have older weapons that cannot take that ammunition. In fact, Sweden already has effective legislation. Nor have we seen any adverse effects on the environment of this spread. The government therefore needs to do everything in its power to counteract such disastrous proposals, which would hamper the important tasks of Sweden's hunters and sportsmen. There are over 600 000 gun owners in Sweden who hunt and practice sporting in various forms. Mr. Old President! I have a wish for the Government. This close to Christmas it would be a nice Christmas present if the Government here from the pulpit could guarantee me, Sten Bergheden and the country's hunters and sportsmen that there are no longer grounds for concern, that all hunters with old weapons can feel at ease that nothing will change and that virtually all of Sweden, despite the EU's decision, will not be classified as wetlands – nor artificially landscaped, floating, static or temporary wetlands formed by snow or rain. Could the Government guarantee that? I'll wish everyone a Merry Christmas.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-152	Mr. Old President! I note that I have not yet received an answer to my first question, but the Minister still has the opportunity to answer it. The question is: What studies indicate that Sweden's already strong protection of wetlands is not enough for Sweden? What investigations has the government built that position on as it has now moved forward and pursued a line of tougher restrictions? Mr. Old President! This is absolutely such an important issue that it should be submitted to the Riksdag to discuss how we proceed and classify the wetlands in Sweden that should be included in this. That would be reasonable given that there is a large majority in the Swedish Parliament that actually disagrees with the Government's previous stance on this issue. I assume that the Minister will take this along and consider the matter and agree with the Riksdag before proceeding with it. Then, Mr President-in-Office, I also miss the analyses and investigations that need to be carried out on the alternative metals that are to be used instead of lead in these areas. They should form the basis of the investigations. Having said that there are alternatives, I wonder where the investigations are that indicate that these alternatives are good enough. Mr. Old President! To conclude, I would like to wish all the crowds, hunters, shooters, the Minister, the interim president and the Presidium a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-156	Mr. Old President! I would like to emphasise once again that Sweden belongs to the European Union. We have completely harmonised legislation on chemicals, and it is called REACH. For it Sweden has pushed even under bourgeois governments. We've been very proud of it. I note with concern that Sten Bergheten says that he would like to tear it up. It would have extremely serious health and environmental consequences for Sweden, but also for Europe and the entire internal market if it were to be done so. The studies requested by Sten Bergheten are studies at EU level that have a broader perspective. If we were to say that lead should not be covered by REACH, we have a major problem. While we would then be happy with our own legislation, we would prevent other Member States from imposing similar bans. It is important that we, as legislators, understand this level and not advocate completely wrong views on this issue. That there should be police officers in every wetland and keep track of this instead of fighting gang crime, I think was an extremely low comment. To the extent that hunting weapons can be found by way of error, I would like to stress that it is very important that you lock your hunting cabinets, as your party leader might also be reminded of. As far as old weapons are concerned, we must modernise on the basis of the knowledge we have. Lead has therefore been removed from petrol. There was a protest against this. Now there are alternatives to lubricants in petrol and diesel. There are alternatives to use for hunting weapons as well. Merry Christmas!
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-160	Mr. Old President! Eric Palmqvist has asked me how the work on simplifying and shortening the permit processes for the mining and mineral industry in accordance with the Riksdag's announcement is progressing and in what way the government is working on permit process issues, so that the conditions for other industries are also addressed as a consequence of the Riksdag's 2019 announcement. Mr. Old President! Swedish mining and mineral industries are of great importance to Sweden as a country, in the regional and local perspective and beyond Sweden's borders. It is about jobs, welfare and the development of new technologies for green transition, and also about taking into account that ensures a good and healthy environment nationally and globally. The licensing processes in the mining and mineral sector are regulated in both the Environmental Code and the Mineral Act (1991:45). Recently, among other things, the state-owned company LKAB was able to present its future strategy, which involves investments of SEK 10 to 20 billion per year for approximately 20 years. During the investment phase, the company estimates that approximately 2 000 – 3 000 jobs will be created per year. The conversion would lead to reduced emissions at LKAB and its customers equivalent to two thirds of Sweden's territorial emissions. The Government has set up an investigation to review the current environmental review system and propose measures to achieve a more modern and effective environmental review. The aim is to facilitate environmental and climate-enhancing investments by means of horizontal changes in environmental testing and to achieve faster and simpler trial processes while ensuring the maintenance of environmental protection. The study will focus in particular on measures that can facilitate investments that contribute to climate change or reduce the environmental impact. The investigation shall submit its report in December 2021. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish National Courts Authority, the County Administrative Boards and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to produce aggregated statistics for the environmental review. Such statistics are important, not least in order to monitor the development of processing times and to identify appropriate efficiency measures. The assignment shall be presented no later than 12 May 2021. During the first half of 2021, the Climate Law Report (M 2019:05) will be presented with its interim report on the Environmental Code. Among other things, the Environmental Code contains regulations on environmental testing. The climate justice investigation will review the legislation in the environmental code and how it can be changed so that the climate policy framework has an impact.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-165	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Enterprise for his answer. It is good that the Minister for Economic Affairs in his answer points out that Swedish mining and mineral industries are of great importance to Sweden as a country. That's why we're in complete agreement. We also agree that this issue is ultimately about jobs, welfare and the development of new technologies – new technologies that can ensure a good and healthy environment for us all, both nationally and globally. Sweden has a long tradition as a mining nation. Much of the wealth we take for granted today would never have been created if it were not because our ancestors learned to find, extract and process our natural resources. We have much, perhaps more than we really understand in everyday life, to be thankful for our ancestors. My thought, or hope, is that future generations will feel the same gratitude to us for choosing to manage that legacy responsibly. But then political determination is needed to overcome the capricious, unpredictable and eternal Kafka-like state processes that slowly stifle the companies and initiators who want to search for new deposits or establish new mines. This is the case, Mr President-in-Office: the Minister for Economic Affairs and I have debated this issue before, and I would like to think, in substance, that we share the view that the issue of permit processes is something that we need to move forward with. Nevertheless, it takes time, far too long. It is true that the Government has set up an investigation to review the current environmental review system with a view to obtaining proposals for measures to achieve a more modern and effective environmental review. And while the government has also commissioned the Swedish National Courts Authority, the County Administrative Board and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to produce a comprehensive set of statistics for the environmental review in order to identify appropriate efficiency measures. But why has it taken so long? This is a problem that has been known for a long time and a ball that the government should have set in motion a long time ago. There are today companies, Mr. President of the Age, who have waited many years for a reply in their permit processes. It is companies that only hope to start operations that could quickly turn small relocation municipalities into places where there are suddenly lots of well-paid jobs. I am sure the Minister for Industry can guess at what establishment I am referring to, but in order for this debate not to be about individual processes, I do not mention any names. I note, however, that these are processes that have landed on the table of the government and which have now involved, among other things, the UN UNESCO in the process, which is alarmingly unlikely to mean that an answer, whatever it may be, is to be expected in the near future. That is why my question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is this: can the Minister tell us how long he thinks it is reasonable that matters relating to permits that have ended up with the government should be allowed to lie before decisions are taken?
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-173	Mr. Old President and the Prime Minister! I am pleased with the opportunity to be part of this debate on the important mining and mineral industries and the important investments that are taking place, not least in northern Sweden. Earlier this spring, the Minister for Economic Affairs stood at the large mining conference in Canada with open arms and said: Welcome to invest in Sweden! I think that was a good signal. However, the problem for the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Government is that he and the Government do not link this to making the necessary reforms to facilitate Swedish mining and mineral companies. The worrying thing is that Sweden, which is basically a good country, has lost in the so-called mining town where you compare what it is like to conduct this type of activity in different countries. There are current permit cases where companies want to invest money. For example, much has been discussed between Kallak and Laver. It is not only the Moderates who make comments, but quite recently the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee was able to note that the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Government had not made a single measure on the Kallak case for three years and that this has in practice been completed on the table of former Minister for Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg and ever since after the election, when there was a new government, at Ibrahim Baylan's table. I can understand that matters take time, but if you are standing at mining conferences in Canada, it's hard to say that you're welcome to invest in Sweden! And don't sweep in front of your own door here at home. I think most people agree that if you can expand and open a mine in Kallak or if LKAB can complete its planned projects, it would mean a huge amount for the economy and jobs regionally and for Sweden as a whole. I would say that this type of mining activity is absolutely crucial to the important green transition. What you pick out of the earth, whether it be iron or other, is what is later needed for construction and for conversion, and it is important that it works. A few weeks ago, LKAB announced its plans to invest SEK 20 billion each year for 20 years. It's an impressive project. They say that in order to make this transition, it will take a lot of electricity, about one third of what we use in Sweden in total. One of the biggest threats to their important projects in Norrbotten is the environmental permit processes. It takes a long time and costs a lot of money. There is also regulatory uncertainty that means that those and others who seek do not know what they have to do to meet the legal requirements and be able to obtain a necessary permit. This means that for them and others, the licensing processes, given that the government does not make proposals, can push important projects forward. Mr. Old President! We are not just talking about LKAB in Norrbotten. The politically cherished Hybrid project is another example. They have planned to build a trial in Oxelösund in the southern part of the country. In order to do so, you need to have a new electricity line in Mälardalen. It can take away ten is to get one in place, and those who know something about this find that the risk is that the permit process takes so long that the entire Hybrid project can be postponed. All in all, whether we are talking about multi-residential buildings, mines or other activities, it is precisely about the environmental permit processes. Mr. Old President! The government has set up an investigation, but it looks more at smaller mining cases and does not do the big battles that could affect LKAB and others. This not only says the Moderates, but experts across the board in the mining and mineral industry note that more action needs to be taken.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-186	Mr. Old President! Mining is important, not just for Sweden. Not least in the transition we are talking about, a lot of metals, including special earth metals, and minerals will be needed, and the European Union, to which we belong, is a major importer of these. Whether to produce batteries to electrify or invest in renewable energy, this type of metals and minerals is needed. Sweden has good conditions. We are a large mining nation and one of Europe's largest producers of a number of metals, and that will continue to be the case. It is surely the opposition to criticise the government for the policy being pursued, but one must nevertheless see what the reality is. And the reality is that we see big investments in the Swedish mining industry and that, despite the fact that the image for parts of our business is quite dark since last spring when the pandemic hit, the Swedish mining industry is doing quite well. That's good, and we're gonna keep working to make sure it's that way, too. I am pleased that the company that I have the privilege of managing on behalf of the Ministry of Enterprise and Industry has an offensive agenda, which I myself and the interpeller have raised. Is all peace and joy? No, of course not. We have to keep looking ahead. The licensing process is a problem, and that is why we have set up an investigation to look at how, without compromising fundamental values such as clean water and good environment, people's will is taken into account. Even property owners, indigenous people and others should have a word on the team. It is important to find a balance that means that our companies can be met by a more efficient and predictable process than today's. Unlike the interpellier, I feel that the vast majority of companies in the mining industry think that it is reasonable to have rather tough environmental requirements and that they do not want to destroy or pollute in the way we see in many other parts of the world. In this way, the Swedish mining industry is a role model both here and abroad. Mr. Old President! I think we are in agreement on the matter. But I know that in opposition things are simple, and that is one of the benefits of being in opposition. I myself have spent eight years in opposition and know what that means. We agree that the legislation needs to be reviewed further. But let's not pretend this is simple, because it's not. There are many interests that need to be reconciled and balanced. Sometimes it also includes our international commitments, sometimes in the European Union, sometimes in the UN. We have seen examples of this just in the last week. Mr. Old President! We're in a difficult time. I would have liked us to have been able to arrive even faster. But we are in the midst of a pandemic, and much of the Ministry of Industry's focus this year has therefore been on trying to mitigate the effects of the pandemic and save parts of Swedish business.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-195	Mr. Old President! I thank the Government. I have full respect for the fact that the Ministry of Enterprise has had full focus on mitigating the consequences of the ongoing pandemic. I do not think there is any party in this House that wants to blur the basic values. I can assure you that we don't want that either. As Gällivarebo, I want to take note of what the Minister of Economic Affairs mentioned about LKAB in his interpellation response. The fact that state-owned LKAB wants to invest up to SEK 400 billion over 20 years in my old workplace in Vitåfors is fantastic news that creates confidence in the future. For that is the case; mining establishments tend to create confidence in the future, even those who are initially met with resistance. When there was talk of a mine in Kaunisvaara outside Pajala, house prices in Pajala skyrocketed, and the company that was the first to establish itself there went bankrupt. Then people cried and manifested under the slogan Today we know that the mine was saved and that more people than ever before work there. I think, Mr. Age President, that it says something about how bad it actually is when state-owned LKAB, which has a unique position in Sweden and which has a high local acceptance for its operations, points out the permit processes as one of the biggest threats to being able to carry out one of the largest industrial investments in Sweden in modern times. But now we all know that LKAB's Chairman of the Board is no less than the former Social Democratic Prime Minister Göran Persson, so for once it took less than a day before our current Prime Minister – Göran Persson's former party colleague – spoke in the media about doing something about the permit process. Do not misunderstand me, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for that matter either: it is of course great if the Prime Minister intends to push forward on this important issue, at least if it benefits all companies, in all processes, which I take for granted. Nevertheless, I cannot help but marvel at the fact that, in a market economy such as Sweden, it is still so bad that it will be necessary for a state operator to roar from when the industry has flagged up the same problem for years. Are the jobs generated by state-owned LKAB in any way more important than those created by other players who break other metals and minerals? The given answer would be: Of course not! Although LKAB's major investment may be regarded as unique in its kind, at least in terms of economic size, similar investments are actually quite possible in more parts of the country, if you want – investments that could secure or strengthen Sweden's position as an export nation, investments that could generate lots of jobs, investments that could secure our need for the rare earth metals that are critical for carrying out the green transformation that not least the government colleagues of the Social Democrats within the Environmental Party are shouting about. Otherwise, the alternative that remains is to make ourselves even more dependent on imports of raw materials from countries with a completely different view of land issues, environmental issues, human rights and democracy. This is a development that I do not want to contribute to. Therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like the Council of State to clarify to us how the cooperation between MP and S actually goes on this issue. The government is certainly responsible for the entire government, but the fact that one party has a slightly more sceptical view of mines in general than the other is not a state secret. The question is whether this party is given a disproportionate influence over the policy pursued.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-206	Mr. Old President! The Minister for Industry says that we should relate to the reality of this, and I think we can do that. The truth is that the mining and minerals industry has expressed quite a lot of criticism of the Minister and the Government because it feels that there has not been enough in terms of cutting and shortening the processing times. There have been recurring reports in today's industry about this, among other things, and it is witnessed in the industry. Similarly, it is a reality and a fact that Sweden has unfortunately lost in the so-called mining ranking. We are perceived as a somewhat worse country today than before, and I very much regret that. It is also a reality that the Minister and the government have, I think, received quite devastating criticism from the Constitutional Committee on the Kallak issue up in Jokkmokk. There the Minister of Economic Affairs has not done a single thing for three years, and the KU stated that a government and a government can't work. Ibrahim Baylan goes on to say that this is not easy. No, I think most people understand that, but people will see that it is easy enough for a responsible minister to do something over a three-year period to take a case forward and not drag it along, as has been done with Kallak and Laver and as one risks doing with other important industrial projects. I find it remarkable that it is only when the state is involved in the form of LKAB or Vattenfall, as in the Hybrid project, which is basically very positive, or when the minister's former mentor is chairman of one of the companies that you start talking about the importance of it all. This is, of course, a general problem for the business community as a whole, not least the important mining and mineral industries. It is a question of shortening processing times and increasing clarity. The Lacquemus test and the proof, Mr President-in-Office, because if the Minister for Economic Affairs succeeds, if you come back with concrete proposals that can shorten and cut the processing times and if he and the government have the ability to make decisions on important matters such as Kallak and Laver. This is before us.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-211	Mr. Old President! I understand that it is part of the opposition's task to examine the government and perhaps also try to take party political points in the sense of trying to get out of the opposition situation, but it becomes a little illogical when one of the Members criticises the government for doing something on one issue and the other Member, from another party, criticises the government for not doing anything. In this case, it is an individual case. Of course it's not like that, Mr. Old President. At the same time, I understand that it is frustrating to be in opposition and that you have to try to take party political points, but I think that in matters where you basically agree, it will only be unnecessary. Yes, we have taken action. Yes, we have identified one of the problems we have. It is against this background that the government has already set up an investigation to review the environmental code to enable our mining industry but also for our industry as a whole to make the necessary transformation. I can assure Mr Palmqvist that it is not only environmentalists who are passionate about doing something about the climate problems. So do I. I do it for a number of reasons. I do this, of course, because we have to do something about it. We cannot allow this development, which destroys our habitat and the environment and the environment, to continue. I am also doing so for another reason, and that is that it is becoming increasingly clear that climate change will be at the heart of our competitiveness in the future. It is central to a country that is and wants to be an open country in terms of trade and exports. At the same time, we see, both in the mining industry – an example that we have had several times and come back to – and in other parts of the Swedish industry, a shift wave that right now means large investments that lead to thousands and thousands of jobs. It is no coincidence, Mr President-in-Office, that unemployment is at its lowest in our two northern counties right now. This has not always been the case – I know from my own experience after living in northern Sweden for a long time – but this is the case. I do not think that we should be moving towards the industry. I think it is exactly the opposite: the industry is about to change, and I think that is basically good. A number of companies are addressing it as a problem, and it is against this background that we are looking at it. We have asked a teamman to come up with proposals, and we will continue to do so regardless of who brings it forward. The false narrative and the false story, Mr. President of the Age – that nothing happened until LKAB said it – is not really true. We set up the investigation this summer. I myself and the Prime Minister have said on a number of occasions that we need to look at not only the legislation but also its application. How do we balance important values such as the environment, people's rights, property owners' rights and indigenous people's rights, while at the same time we need to have a development in which we contribute to the transformation, not least via the mining industry, and create jobs and economic growth? Mr. Old President! In conclusion, I will only correct Mr Palmqvist. I can assure him that Stefan Löfven and Göran Persson are still party friends, because it was claimed that they were former party friends.
i-KemgBH4SbLJ46M7JRKBNTS	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister of Enterprise. I am turning for the Swedish mining industry. I don't think it's a secret by now. I think that in principle all the logical arguments speak in favour of taking that position, whether you have the Swedish economy, jobs, research, security policy, geopolitics or the environment in mind. This is particularly true if one looks at the environment from a wider perspective and compares, as one should and should do, environmental impacts here and environmental impacts there – in the other remote country, where the ore will otherwise be broken if we do not. Here it is my conviction that we should have high demands and be the best in the class. We can gain competitive advantages in a world where more and more consumers are aware and make informed choices about the products they buy. But regardless of whether you are in favour of Swedish mines or if you disagree and are against mines in general, or a certain establishment in particular, the long and unpredictable permit processes are today a problem. Because it is just as the Government says: There are competing interests. Mr. Old President! Whether there are entrepreneurs and people hoping for jobs in one balance, there are also people in the other balance that they also deserve answers. They also deserve to avoid living in limbo and uncertainty. These are people whose pasture, forestry or fields will be affected. It is people who need to know whether it is worth making new investments or whether their property will be used in the near future. Therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I think it is of the utmost importance that, out of respect for not least the small person, we really take this issue seriously and put forward proposals for measures that will bring us closer to faster and more efficient licensing processes without compromising the environmental impact.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-224	Mr. Old President! These are important questions. They are important for many of the reasons that both I and the interpeller have raised. They are important for our economy and, of course, they are important for building a society. But they are also increasingly important for the necessary transition we need to make in order to achieve more sustainable development than we have had in the past. Mr. Old President! It is against this background that we are working on the questions. I would have liked us to have been able to focus even more on this type of issue in the previous year. Lars Helmered mentioned my speech in Canada at the large mining conference in February. I would have liked us to have been able to continue to focus directly on both these and some other issues. However, as you know, Mr President-in-Office, almost all the focus has had to be placed on a global pandemic that has affected not only human life and health, but also large parts of our economy and business. I believe that we have tabled a dozen additional amending budgets in a way that no government has ever done in the past with hundreds of billions of direct aid, in guarantees and in credits. We have done so because it has been absolutely necessary, and we will unfortunately continue to have a lot of focus on this, given that we are not out of the pandemic. In parallel with this, we are trying – despite the fact that the Government Office is large, we still have limited resources – to continue gradually to pick up some of the challenges we have. It is against this background that we set up an investigation this summer, and I look forward to moving forward next year as well and ensuring that we can produce more predictable processes than we have today. Mr. Old President! I wish the Members I do not meet, Mr President-in-Office and the staff merry Christmas and happy New Year.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-230	Mr. Old President! Thomas Morell has asked me whether I intend to take further steps to stop the increasing spiral of violence involving shootings in society and what measures I intend to take to strengthen the protection of those who work and travel on public transport. The government takes a very serious view of the serious violence involving firearms and has taken a wide range of measures in recent years to counter this trend. In the area of criminal law, the government is doing a very active job, and we have also had successful amnesties for weapons and explosives. We have made a number of changes to the legislation on violent crime. For example, the minimum penalties have been tightened for, among other things, aggravated robbery, aggravated assault, particularly aggravated assault, gross illegal coercion, gross illegal threats and serious violence or threats to officials. The punishment for murder has also been tightened in order for the life sentence to be considered to a much greater extent than in the past. The government has also improved the conditions for camera surveillance. Several law enforcement authorities but also actors in public transport, shops, shopping centres and pharmacies can currently conduct camera surveillance without the permission of the Swedish Data Protection Authority. This will strengthen the fight against crime and can contribute to greater security. The government's 34-point programme against gang crime is a very ambitious short- and long-term reform package that includes new tools in law enforcement and criminal justice and increased ambitions in crime prevention. The major effort at the Police Authority is an important part of the work to reduce crime and increase security. By mid-year we were halfway towards the government's target of 10,000 more police workers, and nearly 3,000 police students are on their way out in the coming years. In the area of criminal law, too, several measures are under way. For example, an ongoing investigation is tasked with proposing more stringent penalties for crimes related to criminal settlements, among other things. In addition, the new penalties for the possession and smuggling of illegal weapons and explosives have just come into force. A general starting point for these sharpenings is that they should hit criminal networks particularly hard. Preventing more children and young people from getting involved in crime requires early and coordinated action for children and young people from many actors, not least social services and schools. The Government has commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education and Social Welfare to carry out a development work aimed at improving cooperation between student health, health care and social services so that children and young people receive early and coordinated efforts. Special efforts are directed towards risk groups among children and young people in socially vulnerable areas, as well as children and young people at risk of honour-related violence and repression. In order also to combat the causes of crime, a long-term and structured crime prevention work involving the whole of society is needed. Therefore, the government has developed the National Crime Prevention Programme Together against Crime. We intend to submit a report to the Riksdag shortly on measures in accordance with the objectives of the programme. The work of implementing the crime prevention programme has contributed to the fact that there are now better conditions for structured and long-term crime prevention work in society. But we have to do more. In the budget proposal for 2021, the Government therefore proposes additional measures of importance for both combating and preventing crime. A joint commitment by society as a whole is needed to break the negative development of shootings and gang crime in recent years. Crime should be combated with the full force of society, and we should do so on a broad front by combating both crime and the causes of crime.
i-FMBqPB21m5qRQA1ENvHuNc	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your answer, Minister Morgan Johansson! What made me write the interpellation was a shooting at a bus in Borås. It was the second shooting – at least what I know about – this year against a vehicle in public transport. There were two windows damaged on the bus. I don't think it was a gun, but the police say it was probably a shotgun. It doesn't really matter what type of weapon was used in this situation, but they use some type of firearm and shoot at a bus. The reason is unknown; probably someone was in the bus that they wanted to scare. The problem is that the driver who drives the vehicle and the other passengers in it is terrified when someone shoots at the vehicle. It is a poison in society that criminals take such a place and take liberties to threaten, abuse or even kill other people. It's a concern. I note in the response from the Government that a lot is being done by the government to get to this, and that is great. I think it's great that you invest in the police and that there is a clear goal to get more police in the business that will also work in external service to be able to take the problem seriously out there. But that's not enough. If you look at what the trend has been during this year, you can see that the shootings have increased. There are more shootings, more are being killed in the shootings and more are being injured. Despite the fact that several measures have been taken by the government, there is an upward trend, and I find this worrying. Somewhere you have to get a crack on this curve so that it points downwards. Since you have not got this crack but the curve continues upwards, you should put in more measures. I am very curious to hear from the Government whether there are further steps ahead to get to grips with this. If you do not get to grips with this development, criminals will take an increasing place in society. I looked at Report last Sunday and saw a little bit of how to reason in the criminal circles, what violent capital you use and how to take your power in society. I'll read out exactly what the criminal in the story said: If we judge that person to harm our economic activity, it is not good for us. If we judge that person to be killed, we would hardly hesitate to do so. If we judge – in a legal society, there should be no room for anyone else to judge whether or not to punish someone. In a society of justice, our judicial bodies must take care of that part – police, prosecutors and courts. When it comes to Swedish conditions, it is the Riksdag that makes the laws, and it is based on those laws that penalties should be imposed. Now, however, we have a parallel society where one believes that one has the right to judge who is going to live and who is going to die. It's an eerie development.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-250	Madam President, I would like I certainly share that view: it is an eerie development. But it should also be remembered that this is something that has been going on for a long time. I would say that the established organised crime goes as far back as perhaps 20 or 25 years. What I am saying is that what we are doing now should perhaps have been done then, in the mid-90s and late 90s. That was when these structures established themselves. But you didn't do it then. Then you should have suffocated this in the bud. You didn't do it then. Then we'll have to do it now. It's going to take a little longer, it's going to cost a little more money and it's going to need even more of action to get through it – but we're going to be able to do it. I am absolutely convinced of that. What I say in the answer is, among other things, the big police effort. There were just 600 newly trained policemen from the training courses, next year another 1 400. So there are 2 000 more police officers in just one year. We're training more people. There's fewer cops who quit. There are also more police officers returning to the police force because conditions have improved. Perhaps you can see that this is now something that the state is really investing in. There has been a lot of talk about police salaries in recent years. Let me say that the salaries of police officers have increased by SEK 5 000 per month. Police pay is now $5,000 a month higher than when we took office six years ago. We have made a great deal of effort in terms of penalties, including for the serious crime of arms, so that we can now put more people away. We'll bet on camera surveillance. Then comes the whole 34-point programme with all the actions that I outlined. I would also like to point out that there are indeed opportunities to reverse developments. Many have previously talked about that Malmö has been a problem. The latest figures show that the shootings in Malmö this year appear to decrease by perhaps up to two thirds in relation to 2017, when we had 65 shootings. So far this year, until November, we have had 19 – that is, a very sharp decrease. I'm sure there's a lot of reasons for that. The Rimfrost initiative, which really brought together the police resources against the gangs, may have been important, but also the project that we have been working on in Malmö for a few years and which is called Stop shooting, which me and the Crime Prevention Council brought here to Sweden from the USA after a study visit that we made there in 2016. We then asked the most prominent authorities on gang crime in the United States: Do you see that there is any way to work that we could apply in Sweden as well? David Kennedy, whom I met at John Jay Coll e ge, one of the most prominent universities in the United States at precisely gang crime, replied: Try this with gang violence intervention! Pull up the most gang criminals at regular intervals and tell them: We do not want you to die, but if you continue in this way you will die sooner or later. You will perish in any of these conflicts. If you do not stop doing this, we will continue to hunt you with all possible means. But if you want to drop out of business, we have a drop-off program that allows you to get out of crime. That's the way you've worked in Malmö. It has been applied in Sweden in recent years and may well be the basis for that we are actually seeing such a positive development there right now. In January we will have a more coherent evaluation in that part. I just wanted to point out that it is actually possible to reverse this kind of development if you work properly, perhaps with some new methods, but also if you are prepared to put a lot of pressure on the type of criminal we are talking about.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-259	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The last sentence was a little interesting: you should put a lot of pressure on it. I think it is important for society to mark: Who should have violent capital? Yes, it's the state. Who's going to punish you? Yes, it's the state. It should be based on democratic laws, and it is the police, the prosecutor and the court that implement all of this. The crux is that we have a parallel society that has created its own system that is at the side of – completely out of control, I would say. Let us look at the development that has been. The first ten months of this year there were 315 shootings with 37 dead and 105 injured. Last year there were 31 dead and 91 injured. On average for the same period 2017 – 2020 there were 35 dead and 107 injured. What criminals do is they dictate conditions in particularly vulnerable areas. Malmö has had a positive trend. Stockholm has got the exact opposite. This is where it increases. But we also see that there are now being pushed on streets and squares even in the countryside and in smaller towns. Sweden is also one of the very few countries in the world where children have died in these conflicts. A few years ago, a four - year - old girl was blown to death in a car in Torslanda, Gothenburg. Shortly thereafter, an eight - year - old boy was sleeping in his bed when someone threw a hand grenade into the room, and the boy died. This summer a 12-year-old girl had to put her life in a shooting up here in Stockholm. This violence meets innocent people. It is not that it only targets the criminals. The balls literally also wines around ordinary people. This is what's so scary. The basis for my interpellation was the shooting at this bus. Just sit down and think for a moment about what the people in the bus experienced when the bullets, just after six o'clock in the morning, hit the vehicle. It must have been horrifying. These are people who are in no way involved in the conflicts, but someone is still taking the right to practice violence and threats. Someone was apparently goal in some way, and that was how to set an example. It is this development that is so nasty: that criminals simply dictate the conditions for people who have nothing to do with it. It's great that there's an investment in the police. We need more cops. The crux is that if we get too many cops, if you put it that way, and they become effective, we push people into the system that the prosecutors, the court and later the prison can't handle. So even if we invest in the police, the rest must also grow so that we can deal with what is produced by the police on the street. I would like to hear from the Government how the thinking goes about this. Somehow we have to break the back of the development we have in society, because this cannot go on.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-270	Madam President, I would like I agree with that. That is precisely why we are now taking all these measures – both those we have done in the last parliamentary term and those that are before us in the 34-point programme. It should be remembered that what we are doing now is massive. It is the largest coherent programme against gang crime that any government has taken. We continue to roll this out gradually. I pointed out Malmö where, as I said, it has been reduced very sharply. I pointed out this method, which is based on exactly what I said at the end, to put hard on the gang criminals but at the same time also give them a way out: If you choose to quit, you should know that there is a program here to support it in different ways. I think that that can be very effective, because it does not take so awfully many people to drop out to break up the structures. Then you hurt them more than just taking out the leading individuals. I did not mention that in the answer, but we will also go forward with a national defector programme which we have now commissioned four authorities to design. I think that can be very effective. In Malmö, the shootings have decreased by, as it now stands, perhaps up to two thirds from 2017 until 2020. This, of course, has consequential effects throughout the whole legal chain. As we tighten the penalties as we have done and as we increase the police presence, it also means arresting more people. We'll fill up the penitentiary. We have 100% occupancy – more than that even – in both prisons and prisons. That's why we're building up the penitentiary. There will be at least 2,000 more places in the penitentiary for the next seven years. But then it will not help if the Swedish Democrats move in a different direction. One concern is that when you voted through your budget in the autumn of 2018, in the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, you underfunded the Swedish Prison Service with SEK 300 million. Nor does it help when Swedish democrats stand locally and stop our projects. We were to build a huge new facility in Svedala for up to SEK 2 billion and that would give another 300 seats. Then the Swedish Democrats started campaigning against it and trying to scare people: We will not have an institution here in Svedala! You managed to stop it, and that meant that project lasted another two years. Now we have a new plan for that project, and the prison will be built in Trelleborg instead. However, it does not help to stand in this Chamber and say that we need to get to grips with this, that we need to make these investments and that we need to invest in the prison system and then, in the next breath, localise the very investments that have to be made. Responsibility must be taken at all levels to resolve this. Then all of this is connected. When I meet policemen from the affected areas, they often say three things. They say: We need to be more. And so they say: We need better tools. So it's about the punishments, secret coercive measures and cameras. But then they say one more thing. They often say: Keep in mind that it is not just about the police. The school must work, social services must work and leisure activities must work. These are police officers and all those who work in the vulnerable areas extremely aware of. It's not just a matter of putting in jail those who are gang criminals. It is also necessary to break the recruitment of young people on their way in. Then it is a matter of being prepared to strengthen those parts of the well-being as well. We are now doing this with additional money aimed at the vulnerable areas and precisely at this type of social effort. I believe that this is absolutely necessary in order to tackle both the crimes themselves and the causes of the crimes.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-281	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is absolutely right that recruitment to criminal networks should be stopped. It has an important role to play in dealing with young people. However, there is a small catch in that reasoning, and that is that there are those in these groups who look up to and worship the heavily burdened individuals who become a bit like kings in their area. There's a lot of money to make in a rough short time, and then there are many who make the mathematical calculation that it takes a long time to go to school and it's not certain that it gives a job, but if you go the other way you make big money in a few months. You gotta punch that in the face. You have to stop that recruitment route and remove the halo of those who sit as leaders in the criminal gangs. They should be locked in and not come out for a very long time. Young people who have older and heavy criminals as idols should see what happens when society really is hard on. It is not so fun to sit behind bars for 10, 15 or maybe 20 years. If it's a real felony, it's life. You have to get rid of the big profit, and you have to get rid of those who become idols for the young. Nor should it be forgotten that the vast majority of people living out there are ordinary, honest and hardworking citizens. They must have help and support from society so that they do not feel that they cannot go out at night and cannot let their children out and so on. These are the ones you need to focus on so that they feel safe in the area where they live. The criminals are to be locked up, and the ordinary people must feel safe.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-287	Madam President, I would like There are no differences of opinion there either. What I'm saying is you have to do both parts. You have to fight the crimes and lock up the most active in crime. If we do not take care of them, they will serve as models for young people who are entering, sabotaging all preventive work and impairing the legitimacy of all preventive work itself. That is clearly the case, and that is why we are making the big efforts on the police. We have more policemen now than ever in Sweden, and that continues gradually. The goal we set in 2017 was that there would be 10,000 more police employees by 2024. We have come halfway to that goal, and now every six months that goes another large litter of new police officers from the educational centres. We have started two new police training courses in Borås and Malmö and now have five training courses. So we're making big investments in the law enforcement part. Then it is also about prevention, that is, there must be good schools and a nice leisure activity, and all the welfare that one has in a modern society must be everywhere in Sweden. That is why we are also making major investments in the affected areas. In the budget that is on Parliament's table, we propose investments of SEK 250 million per year aimed at the affected areas, including for this type of measures. If you're going to make sure that these characters don't become role models, it's not just about locking them up – of course you should – but you also have to take their money and assets. In the Rimfrost venture, part of it was that you could take quite a lot of cash, nice cars, gold bells and everything else that these people boast. I imagine that if we are to have further measures, we will be even more effective in this particular respect and we will go for the profits of crime and take the assets of criminals. There we will also come forward with proposals in the coming years.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-294	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures I intend to take to protect our democratic society and the representatives of the political assemblies. He has also asked me whether I intend to evaluate the penalty that was introduced earlier this year. Any violation of elected representatives is unacceptable and constitutes an attack not only on the elected person but also on democratic society. Criminal protection must therefore be effective and strong. No one should be afraid to engage in politics. As Thomas Morell mentions, on 1 January this year, the protection of elected representatives in criminal matters was strengthened by the introduction of a special penalty. It means that when assessing the penalty value, account shall be taken in particular of whether the offence has been committed against a person because he or she or a related person held an elected office. In view of the fact that less than a year ago the grounds for a fine came into force, it is too early to comment on its possible effect. It is also too early to evaluate its application. However, the amendment of the law is a clear indication that breaches of elected representatives should be seen as particularly serious. The government has also taken other measures. In order to strengthen criminal protection for the exercise of official authority, the scale of penalties for serious violence or threats to officials was also tightened on 1 January of this year for a minimum of one and a maximum of six years. On 14 May this year, the Government commissioned an investigator to take a position on the societal functions that are in need of enhanced criminal protection and how such protection can be achieved. The mission also includes analysing the need for and appropriateness of a change in law whereby the crime of violence or threats against officials is divided up and the scale of penalties for violence against officials is tightened. The investigator shall present his/her conclusions by 12 November 2021. In addition, the government has in recent years taken several legislative measures which generally strengthen criminal law protection against violence, threats and harassment. Among other things, the scale of penalties for certain serious crimes of violence has been tightened, and the protection of personal integrity has been strengthened and modernised, for example by extending the criminalised area of illegal threats. It is important to work broadly to ensure that elected representatives can carry out their duties without being subjected to threats, violence and other harassment. Therefore, in recent years, the government has also taken other than criminal measures to strengthen the protection of elected representatives. During the last parliamentary term, the Government adopted the Action Plan on the defence of free speech – measures against threats and hatred among journalists, elected representatives and artists. The purpose of the Action Plan is to strengthen efforts to prevent and deal with threats and hatreds of, among others, elected representatives as they are considered particularly vulnerable in the democratic dialogue. The Action Plan includes measures to increase knowledge, support for victims and measures to strengthen the judiciary. The police authority has raised the level of ambition regarding hate crimes and other crimes that threaten fundamental rights and freedoms. Within the agency there is a national contact point and so-called democracy and hate crime groups in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. Resources allocated are also available in other police regions. These resources shall, in addition to investigating, work with victim support, internal training, interaction and other security and confidence-building measures. The Police Authority is also specifically tasked with continuing to develop and improve the work to combat hate crimes and other crimes that threaten democracy. In the assignment to be reported in spring 2021, the Police Authority shall present the results of the work and describe how cooperation with authorities and organisations is conducted and how dialogue with those exposed to this type of crime is ensured. The Crime Prevention Council, on behalf of the Government, has for several years conducted the Politicians' Security Survey to identify harassment, threats and violence against elected representatives and has been commissioned to do so for 2020. The Swedish Crime Victims Agency is tasked with disseminating the educational and information material that the Agency has produced and which is available on the website silentnte.se to support people who are exposed to or are at risk of being exposed to threats and hatred in the public conversation. The assignment shall be presented by 31 March 2021. It is important that municipalities and regions continue to develop their efforts to prevent and deal with threats and hatred of elected representatives. Sweden's Municipalities and Regions have therefore been granted funding since 2016 to develop and support the work of municipalities and regions in this regard. Protecting our democratic society, including our elected representatives, is of utmost importance to the government and will continue to be so. The government is therefore following developments in this area and is prepared to take the necessary measures to protect our democracy.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-309	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Morgan Johansson! That was a long and solid answer to my question, which is extremely important. If the political representatives are beginning to be intimidated to carry out their important task, that is really bad. I am so old that I have been with a turn earlier as a politician. Back then, paper and pen were involved. There was no Facebook, Instagram and a lot of other social media. A threat came either on the phone or on a written note. It was no less serious, but it didn't come much. Now it is a lot of strange both individuals and groups out in society who are building up hate and threats online that are directed at either an individual politician or perhaps a political party. I am convinced that it is almost part of the government's everyday life to accept threats. That is if you have a prominent position. There is always someone who has views and who threatens. Many politicians have experienced this. Some have even chosen to step off their political missions because someone has threatened. You never know where the line is. Is it just a real threat, and nothing else is happening? Or will the threat be carried out in some form of action? It can even be so bad that you get beaten up or something when you go out of a room. It is extremely serious and a threat to our democratic society. There must be clear penalties and consequences for anyone who tries to influence political society by threatening or raping someone. I look forward to the answers in the two investigations. Let's see what it lands in. Today we have a different society from when I was young and active the first turn. The information is spread quickly to a great many people. What can be an individual madman, if put in that way, can quickly spread when others take on the message. Then there is a situation that goes beyond control. Nevertheless, the principle must be that no one has the right to deprive another of the democratic right to pursue its opinion. We must protect that. We must protect that right so that one can be confident in having an opinion and pursuing one's policy in the party in which one is active. This is something that transcends all party boundaries. It is not a particular party that is vulnerable. Everyone's been through the same thing. It's bad. I sincerely hope that the investigations will lead to a penalty. As the Government said, there was a penalty earlier this year. You haven't had time to evaluate it. It hasn't been a year yet. But one should be able to see a little where it leans and what the consequences are in cases where someone has actually been arrested for threatening. As I said, I look forward to the conclusions of the investigations. There will certainly be reason to continue the discussion.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-319	Madam President, I would like Yes, I'm sure this discussion will continue for a long time. It's a part of everyday life for many people. I think we Social Democrats know more about hate and threats to elected representatives than most. After all, two of our top representatives have been killed. One of my earliest political memories is the funeral of Olof Palme. I also remember very well the hate campaigns that were going on against him from the far right throughout the 1980s until the murder. I was in the government in 2003 when Anna Lindh was killed. I remember very well the evening and the night between 10 and 11 September 2003. In Norway, a Norwegian Nazi killed 69 children and young people with the declared aim of destroying an entire generation of young Social Democrats. It is the worst act of terror in the Nordic countries during the post-war period. In the UK, Jo Cox, a young female Labour politician, was stabbed to death by an English right-wing extremist in 2016. So we know a lot about what threats and hatred can lead to when it is directed at elected representatives. There are also many examples of municipal politicians, even the chairman of the municipal board, who have chosen to quit. They cannot remain because the extreme right-wing hatred and the threat, even to their children, has been so strong. In fact, I say that is where it generally comes from, from these far-right forces. I think we should be clear about that. The legislation we now have is based on the idea that when you go after a person because of his or her position of trust, you go after not only the person himself, but you go after the whole democratic system. The purpose is to frighten, so that the person should not dare to be politically active and not dare to speak in the public conversation. That is why the governments must take a particularly strict view of such threats, hatred and violence. That is the basis for the penalty that we carried out a year ago. It applies when someone goes after an elected representative but also to an elected member of his/her family. It should then be possible to use that penalty base. In the interpellation response I said that we have also reinforced with further police efforts, with special democracy and hate crime groups within the police in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. But that competence has also been built up in other parts of the country. Thomas Morell brings up social media. I am well aware of the drifts and hate campaigns that can be whipped up there. I say that this is essentially organised by the far right. I must tell Thomas Morell that I know that the Swedish Democrats are sometimes part of the problem here, not part of the solution. It's all very simple: It only takes five minutes to go on Twitter to see who is triggering the hate and threat campaigns that are seen there practically around the clock and always. If Thomas Morell is worried about hatred and threats against elected representatives, I think he should go to his own party and help clean up everything that the Swedish Democrats are pushing for on social media. I say that much of this comes from there. Help me with that!
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-329	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The Government does not have to be in the least worried. In my circle and among the people around me we have a very clear basic view. Everyone has a self-evident right to express his opinion. Even if opinions are not always shared, one must respect one another for the views of each one and the political parties they represent. Anything else would be unthinkable. It doesn't really matter where the threats come from. It's just as bad whether they're from the right, left or somewhere else. It must not occur. The Government took up the example from Norway. That's the scary part. The perp flew under the radar. You couldn't get ahold of him. Then there was this consistency. You had seen some strange tendencies around the individual, but you didn't do a thorough enough dive to make sure who he was and what he could be capable of. The consequence is known to all of us. This is what's scary about social media. There may be a figure out of nowhere, and then we get a situation like this. That time it was Social Democratic youth in Norway who got into trouble. Who's next? We have no idea. It is extremely important that we as a democratic society constantly stand on our toes to watch what is happening and happening, especially in social media because such things and groupings appear right there. What led me to write the interpellation was an explicit threat, which said that it would arrest Swedish-democratic MPs with the support of the right of individual citizens and the like. You would start a war against the Swedish state. Turns out it's about a lone offender. As I understand it, Säpo has carried out an audit and does not see this as a problem in a wider circle. But the catch is when it spreads online. It could trigger others. In the previous interpellation, we discussed how criminals act in society. They have an interest in managing politics. We have examples of this from all over the world. They go in and steer up how politicians should act on certain issues so that it all goes their business. This is the dangerous part of influencing our democratic society. This can be done by threats or perhaps even by force. We must be vigilant. Threats can come from both left and right. It doesn't matter. You have to act against it. I got a long answer from the government. As I said earlier, I look forward to the measures. I sincerely hope that the government is vigilant about what is happening and happening out there. I've got cuts in the police and I'm listening to a little bit of what it looks like. I myself have been exposed to threats, but not as a politician, but when I worked in the authority. I know what it's like to have a threat hanging over you. In that case, my wife was also involved because they had mapped her working hours. There's nothing running off you. I can guarantee that it stays in place for years when you don't know what's going on and who's the offender. Whatever you do, you always have an eye back. It is not worth it if you, as a politician, are exposed to such a situation.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-339	Madam President, I would like I say that Breivik may have acted alone, but he was not alone in that he had not been supported, inspired and entertained by an ideological offensive for many years before. Some of these perpetrators are seen to be part of a whole. The same applies to Anton Lundin Pettersson, the person who armed himself with a sword in Trollhättan and who went into a school to kill as many immigrants as he could access. The same applies to Peter Mangs, the perpetrator in Malmö. He walked around the streets in Malmö to shoot as many immigrants as possible. It is clear that they were in a way solitary, but they were radicalized by the kind of hate and threat campaigns that occur daily and around the clock on social media. This is what I want Thomas Morell to take some responsibility for. I wasn't born yesterday. After all, I'm 50 years old. I can see when these things are organized. I see the people behind the anonymous accounts on Twitter acting. Anonymous accounts can in every other tweet be hatred of immigrants, Muslims or politicians like myself. Often they are also sexist if they go to women elected representatives. It can be very rough. This is about every other tweet. Every other tweet also supports the Swedish Democrats. They show their support for Swedish democratic politicians, news and play. As I said, I am not born yesterday, but I see when such things are organized. If Thomas Morell wants to be part of the solution, I would like to say once again that he should turn to his party. It's possible he doesn't know what they're doing and he thinks it's something spontaneous people are trying to achieve. But I'm saying it can't look like this unless it's basically organized. If you go into Twitter now, it sometimes feels like sinking into a sewer of poison, hatred and grief, as it looks. It's no coincidence it looks like this. There is nothing spontaneous that only arises, but it is organized. If Thomas Morell wants to be part of the solution – I honestly think he wants to, because he gives everyone the signal – I think he should go to his own party and stop all such activities and organization. It is a little early to evaluate the legislation as such. It has been in force for only one year. But, of course, we will have to do this. Nevertheless, I think it is an important mark to have such a penalty. It signals precisely that if you go after elected representatives, you also go for the whole system. It must be suppressed. However, I believe that we need to do more, not only in criminal or police matters, but also, above all, in order to prevent such hatred and threats. If this continues on social media, we risk having more acts of violence of the kind we have unfortunately seen in recent years.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-347	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The examples raised by the Government show how important it is to really keep track of what is happening around. After all, the lone perpetrators succeeded in what they intended to do. They did so at a time when social media had little impact, apart from Breivik. The former were more in the analogue world, if you may put it that way. It shows how important it is to keep an eye on what is happening. If we talk about acts of violence, we see what is happening around us all over the world, with blasts, beheadings and other things. For example, people are shot indiscriminately in open places. We call it radicalization. Someone lives in the belief that one is Gud's father himself and then sits over others and believes that one has the right to kill, threaten or do something else. This is the scary part. It is often linked to a criminal environment. I sincerely hope that the government is so alert that it sees what is happening around us. I can assure the Government that those around me respect other people's opinions. It is extremely important in a democrat in. You can have different opinions, but you have to respect each other. We politicians who are debating have a great responsibility. Our conduct toward one another sets standards for others. Can't we have a well-kept language and a well-kept discussion on substantive issues doesn't think others need to have it either. With that, I would like to wish the Government a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. I sincerely hope it will be better in 2021 than in 2020. I also wish the rest of you in here, everyone, a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. I'm going to be here all day, so I'm going to wish more the same.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-353	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good discussion. We all have a responsibility to ensure that as much as we can do to combat this kind of threat, hatred and drive against individual politicians. Thomas Morell is right that some of this is back in time, but this does not apply to Anton Lundin Pettersson and the violence in Trollhättan. It happened just a few years ago, and there was the background, among other things, of radicalisation online. Peter Mangs had a different kind of background, but it was also a question of radicalisation. Even further back in time, in the early 90s, Laser Man, John Ausonius, went around and shot immigrants in Stockholm. It was hate crime, too. I would like to return to the fact that social media has been poisoned in recent years, particularly from the far right. This is very obvious. I'm saying that's where the threat comes from. I also say that it cannot be a coincidence that the same accounts that underpin Sweden's democrats also engage in this kind of hatred and threat. If Thomas Morell can do anything about it, I am the first to thank him, because I really think that would be necessary. Of course, how we behave against each other and how we discuss it also dissipates the rest of society and the debate on society. That is why we must take responsibility for this too. I wish Thomas Morell a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. As I said, we hope that next year will be better than this year has been, and we will see each other in more debates in the future.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-358	Madam President, I would like Lars Hjälmered has asked me if I would like to take any further steps to address the transmission problem from northern to southern Sweden and whether I believe that the electricity problems in southern Sweden will be covered by the fact that electricity surpluses in the north are being carried southwards. Initially, I can see that while prices in southern Sweden have been high during summer and autumn, they have been the lowest in five years and the second lowest since Sweden was divided into bidding zones in autumn 2011. Sweden's medium and large companies still have the lowest retail prices in the European Union. Sweden's electricity grid is facing major investments. On the one hand, old lines need to be replaced, and on the other, new lines and stations need to be built. Against this background, for example, the Swedish Companies Agency makes historically large investments in the capacity of new electricity grids. The next three-year period is planned for investments of SEK 17 billion, compared with SEK 7 billion in the last three years. Against this background, I take a very positive view of Svenska Kraftnät's large network enhancement project Nordsyd between northern and southern Sweden, which is necessary to implement the energy transition and to meet the increased capacity requirement. The investment means a substantial increase in transmission capacity from northern Sweden, which is a surplus area in terms of electricity. But it is not just reinforcements of the electricity grid that are needed. The licensing processes for building electricity networks also need to be reduced. To look to the future: The vote will return to Parliament with proposals from the Nätkoncessionsutvecklingen to shorten the lead times in the permit process. In addition, SEK 28 million will be added to the Energy Market Inspectorate over a four-year period to meet society's need for a rapid and effective concession testing. However, I am prepared to take further action if and when it would be deemed necessary. I believe that the time frame for building electricity lines in Sweden must be greatly reduced. Sweden as a whole is considered to be well placed to have more production than consumption over a long period of time. Sweden is also part of the European electricity market and has connections to six neighbouring countries. At the same time, I am aware that there have been challenges for local capacity in some parts of Sweden, including Skåne. The government and the network companies in Malmö and Stockholm therefore jointly took an initiative last autumn to ensure the capacity in Malmö and Stockholm in both the short and long term. Nor have any electric consumers had to be disconnected due to power shortages in Sweden. Finally, I would like to say that it is my top priority in energy policy to ensure that Sweden has access to electricity at every opportunity and at a reasonable and competitive cost.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-364	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer and the opportunity to debate the electricity system and use of electricity in northern Sweden, linked to the country as a whole. I usually say that a significant increase in the use of electricity is not just a future scenario but a desirable development of society. I think that we should strive for a strong economic development combined with a green transition. All the initiatives taken to switch from fossil energy to pure electric energy are to be welcomed. But social change places demands on us as politicians and other parts of society. Historically, we have had a well-functioning electricity and energy system, the cleanest in the whole of Europe. An important challenge is to stick to not increasing our emissions, which are at a historically low level. As a country, we have had three electric crises, in Stockholm, in Skåne and in southern Sweden, within about a year. Total electricity costs are increasingly challenging for industry, as are price fluctuations. It has long been assessed that electricity surpluses in northern Sweden should be able to solve the deficits that exist in southern Sweden and that the large revenge is flawed in the transmission from north to so-called fates. If you only solve it, the problems are solved also for southern Sweden, the assessment has been. That is why I have asked the Minister for Energy about initiatives to increase transmission capacity. Recently, however, there have been some changes that can affect these thoughts. The electrical crises in the south have taken place. It takes a very long time to build new electricity generation and new electricity lines. The so-called South-West Link, which is to be part of the electricity grid in southern Sweden, has been delayed a total of 21 times, which is a breakdown. Experts generally agree that permit periods must be reduced. There is a ready-made proposal from the Swedish Energy Minister Anders Ygeman from the online concession inquiry, but it has been delayed and has not come to Parliament's table. We also see a very welcome transition in northern Sweden with large industrial establishments. For example, LKAB presents major investments forward that could lead to increased electricity use by about the same amount as we use during four months in Sweden just to meet their needs. Region Norrbotten itself says in accordance with its plans that the strong investments made in Norrbotten in Hybrid, LKAB and other things could potentially even be eaten up by their needs. This raises the question: Is there enough electricity to transfer to southern Sweden? The government has increased the money to the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate to facilitate processing. I think that's wise. Less wise is that the government has not come up with proposals that cut processing times for power grid expansion, for example between northern and southern Sweden. There are ready proposals on the Minister's table. Experts generally agree that this is a first but insufficient step and that more needs to be done to shorten processing times. Given the increased needs in northern Sweden, it is also reasonable to discuss how we can increase electricity generation in southern Sweden to secure electricity for industry and households. For example, it is bad to close Ringhals reactor 1. Madam President, I would like The two questions remain. Firstly, does Anders Ygeman consider that the electricity available in northern Sweden will be sufficient for the needs of southern Sweden? Secondly, if it is the case that experts generally say that the initiatives that have been taken so far are not enough to increase the expansion of the electricity grid, will Anders Ygeman present any further initiatives in this area?
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-374	Madam President, I would like I could make it easy for myself and answer yes to Lars Helmered's two questions, but I see in front of me that Lars Helmered would like a slightly more nuanced answer. Nevertheless, I would like to start with a principled starting point. I think the development we see in northern Sweden is positive. We can use our historically large electricity surpluses and our competitive electricity prices to attract companies to Sweden and ensure that they place their production in northern Sweden. It's a trend break. There is something very positive that I think Lars Helmered should rejoice about. LKAB, Northvolt and Hybrid see future opportunities in good access to electricity and low electricity prices. I endorse that development. If demand in a market such as the electricity market increases significantly, supply will also increase over time in exactly the same way as in other markets. I think this is a cornerstone of Lars Helmered's perception of all other markets. I assume that it is also a cornerstone of the energy market. It's about supply and demand. This is basically the market's task. The task of politics is to create the right conditions for the market. It is not only these three companies that expand and want to establish themselves in Sweden. It is also other companies and other industries. We have a transport sector that will need a great deal of electricity in the future. Lars Hjälmered asks me: Will it be enough for 2030, 2040 and 2050? My honest answer, of course, is that neither I nor Lars Helmered can know exactly how much electricity will be produced or consumed in 2030, 2040 and 2050. What I know is that we need to plan for a significant increase in electricity consumption. That is the background to the fact that I have set up the work on an electrification strategy. If we consume 160 terawatts today, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise points out that 200 terawatts may be needed by 2030 or 2040. Maybe there's even more to it. Perhaps 220 - 230 will be needed. We must take it up in the work we are doing in the political system. I look forward to work on the electrification strategy and to taking steps to further drive the positive development. It can be about short times for management expansion, which Lars Helmered was into. There will be strong proposals from the government, both from the Online Concession Investigation and other proposals. It can be about ensuring that power generation that is important to our grid system is given favourable conditions. I and Lars Hjälmered have agreed on this, namely that we should abolish the connection charges for offshore wind power. If we can get that into southern Sweden, it will facilitate and mitigate the need for pipeline expansion. We have the joint initiative in which we ensure climate-friendly cogeneration production in the centre of some of our largest cities. We have the development of flexibility markets that create significantly more efficient use of the electricity produced. We have many positive measures in the future.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-382	Madam President, I would like It is a somewhat more strained situation we have in the electricity and energy markets. Much works well, but the margins are decreasing. It is not only me and the Moderates who say this, but in general both companies and business organisations have raised a different concern than before and also raised criticism of the government and the Minister. One example was the large chemical company in Helsingborg, which said this week in Dagens Industri, "As Minister of Energy Anders Ygeman, talking about the fact that we have a national electricity surplus on an annual basis is political gibberish and one way to turn a blind eye to the big and rapidly growing problems we have with security of supply and price fluctuations." There were several companies who testified in the same article. As recently as today's Industry came renewed criticism of the government. I am very pleased with the development in Norrbotten. I very much welcome the efforts made by a number of companies to get Hybrid in place. I would like LKAB to be able to finish with its big and important investment. If they do, it also means that much more electricity will be used in Norrbotten. The question is whether there will be enough electricity from there to transfer. It has been one of the great solutions. If we can expand the electricity grids from north to south, the problems of the south will be solved. This is now at its head, combined with the fact that we now have licensing processes for both electricity grid deployment and electricity generation that take too long. Anders Ygeman has a completely ready-made proposal in the so-called Online Concession investigation that has been on his and the government's table this year – everyone is just waiting for it to come. I hope it does. But it won't be enough. Those who are really good at this with electrical energy note that with Anders Ygeman's proposal you can cut the time for power grid expansion from about ten to eight years. I believe that most people realise that much more far-reaching measures will be needed in order to expand strongly and rapidly, for example, the electricity grid, but also electricity generation. If we don't make it, it's gonna mess up the way it's done before. We need increased power grid expansion. Madam President, I would like I would say that the lesson from the development in the north is that we need to have a discussion on how to secure electricity generation in southern Sweden too in order to generate electricity for households and companies in our southern parts. Now there's a chance I'll be a little bit technical. An electricity system works in such a way that if you are to transfer large amounts of electricity from north to south you must have electricity production in the south that can receive this. It is called reactive power and is part of the natural sciences. We can see the situation that prevailed in southern Sweden this summer with the electric crisis one for Ringhals reactor 1. It was not needed for electricity, but for stability to provide electricity for households and businesses. When you didn't have this, electricity in the same amount could not be transferred from Norrbotten to Skåne. If we are to have a secure electrical system, it is a handful of powerful measures that must be taken. It is about securing electricity generation, expanding electricity grids and cutting processing times. Ultimately, it is the Minister for Energy who is responsible for having a functioning electricity and energy system. We note that many of the proposals that have been or are under way are not yet sufficient. In addition to what we have been talking about, we are waiting for proposals for a so-called security of supply target to identify who it is, in addition to the Minister, who should be responsible at government level for households and companies having a secure electricity supply in Sweden. We're still waiting for that.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-392	Madam President, I would like Lars Helmered claims that the online concession investigation has been on the minister's table this year. It's completely wrong. I received it this year and sent it out for a referral, just as proposals had to be made. It is part of the preparatory work that the Constitution imposes on the government and parliament. Lars Helmered claims that he is delighted with the development in Norrbotten. I have to say, he hides his joy well.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-394	Madam President, I would like I think we can ignore the casual tone of the Minister for Energy. I'd be happy to put that on the record. I like to have a dialogue in different ways. Now on two occasions I have made it clear that I and the Moderates welcome this, and I can do it again. It is extremely tense and exciting that LKAB wants to invest a further 400 billion over a twenty-year period. I am one of the first to welcome other initiatives both in Norrbotten and in other parts of Sweden, so we can leave that behind. What this debate in general is about is that households and companies in Sweden should be able to count on safe access to electricity and other energy. Overall, it has worked fantastically well in Sweden with historically low prices, high availability and not least low climate emissions. But I think it's tried in different ways. There have been three electric crises in the space of a year. We can see that when it comes to transition over time, it is about maintaining the environmental benefits of the Swedish electricity and energy system. Both for our electrical system when expanding networks and for production, the licensing process is one of the biggest challenges. It affects companies that want to invest. It could be a municipal sewage treatment plant. It could be multi-residential buildings. These could be industrial start-ups. More needs to be done here in order for electricity grids, production and other important activities to be put in place more quickly – for the economy and for jobs. Ultimately, it is also crucial for Sweden to cope with the green transition over time and thus achieve the environmental and climate goals. But then we must have concrete proposals. One example is the online concession investigation. It means, say experts, that for Swedish power networks it decreases from ten years to about eight years before a core network line is in place. It is not unimportant, but much more needs to be done if we are to secure the electricity system for households and businesses.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-400	Madam President, I would like I can say that we agree on a lot, me and Lars Helmered. We agree to shorten the permit process. We agree that there is a need for further action in addition to those in the online concession investigation. We agree that the proposals in the Online Concession Investigation are good and important. And we still seem to agree that this is a positive development in Norrland and that the Swedish electricity surpluses and competitive Swedish electricity prices attract companies. With this significant consensus, I regret that the Moderates withdrew from the long-term energy agreement we signed three years ago, which was intended to deliver these very long-term and important measures and rules of play for Swedish industry and Swedish consumers. I think it would be a strength for Sweden if we and the Moderates and several other parties agreed on the long-term rules of the game. Then I also believe that Lars Helmered and the Moderates would have a greater impact on the views they have on Swedish energy policy. I'm not closing the door. I welcome the Moderates back to the Energy Agreement in order to be able to decide on long-term conditions for Sweden's development. Until then, I look forward to the Moderates supporting the proposals they have asked for in this House when they are soon put on the table of Parliament. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish Lars Helmered a nice weekend – and a Merry Christmas if we do not see each other before then.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-405	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me whether I intend to take steps to put higher requirements on home and consumer knowledge in the subject of home and consumer knowledge than to ensure that the student is only supposed to be able to make comparisons between different consumption options and to have simple reasoning with some connection to consequences for private economy and how else I intend to ensure that students through school get the knowledge they need in private economics. Knowledge about consumer issues and private finances is important and provides people with tools to create a workable everyday life and be able to make informed choices as consumers with regard to health, economics and the environment. It is therefore important that all students learn about private finances in school. It is knowledge that all young people need to do well in society. The area of demolished economy and consumption is also clearly set out in the curriculum for home and consumer knowledge, both in the existing syllabus and in the revised syllabus valid from 1 July 2021. In both comprehensive school and upper secondary school, private finances are also part of the subject of social sciences. In the revised curriculum of home and consumer knowledge decided by the Government in August 2020, private finances have been further highlighted in the purpose of the topic through their own point in the long-term goals. It now shows that the teaching of home and consumer knowledge will enable students to develop knowledge about economics and consumption at home. It is clear from the central content that students will already learn about private finances, for example about the relationship between savings and consumption, about the difference between factual consumer information and other influences, about advertising and about comparing goods based on comparison prices. In high school, students will then be able to deepen their knowledge and, for example, learn how to make a budget and what it means to buy on credit, subscribe and borrow and save money. They will also learn about consumers' rights and obligations. From the knowledge requirements for grade E in grade 6 it follows that a liven gives examples of different ways to save and pay and describes in a simple way what can affect consumption choices. The grade E in grade 9 requires a simple description of factors and decisions that can affect personal finances and consumption choices. I can thus conclude that the knowledge requirements from 1 July 2021 will be different from what is apparent from the question, where parts of today's knowledge requirements are reproduced. Overall, Madam President, I take the view that the subject of private finances is well set out in the revised curriculum of home and consumer knowledge that will now take effect. According to the relevant policy documents, they should be able to obtain relevant knowledge in order to make informed choices as consumers with regard to health, the economy and the environment.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-411	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer. Our children are at risk of growing up as financial illiterates, with the adult world as a spectator. We can't have it like that. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority has noted that Sweden's young people have an alarmingly low level of knowledge in private economics. A study by Finansinspektionen shows that 75 per cent of the young people surveyed do not know how to take a loan at the bank and that 31 per cent do not know how to make a monthly budget. The latest report by the bailiff shows that many children grow up in families with debts. The bailiff also states that adults need to talk more about private finances with children – so also in school. This allows young people to acquire basic economic knowledge early on and carry them with them in adulthood. In this way, young people could be prevented from falling into debt. Young people should be able to make informed decisions about their personal finances. In an increasingly economically vulnerable world, it is a social interest to educate and inform about the private economy – planning income and expenditure, loans, credit and interest rates, saving and paying bills, as well as financial risks and consequences. Madam President, I would like I think that more people need to be alerted to what it means to take a SMS loan and to the fact that it is not just to draw the card when you pay or collect more money in the ATM. More people need to learn the value of money. Perhaps it was easier in the past when you had them more often physically in your hand or wallet. Children's financial understanding follows a steep downward curve. Yet the measures are bright with their absence, and, as I said, the adult world seems to be sitting in the public gallery watching while the national economy is at risk, equality is put in balance and young people's health is at risk. The Swedish National Agency for Education has stated that it is up to each school to decide how much time should be spent on the private economics part of school education. Therefore, it is not obvious how much each student receives. There should be plenty of time in home and consumer knowledge. The curriculum states: a knowledge of consumer issues and work at home provides people with important tools to create a working everyday life and to make informed choices as consumers with regard to health, economics and the environment. ..................................................... The purpose of the subject is, among other things, for students to develop knowledge and interest in work, economics and domestic consumption. But out of 14 points in the central content of grades 1 to 6, 3 is about economics, and of 19 points in grades 7 to 9, 6 is about economics and consumer knowledge. Madam President, I would like By this I do not mean that you should not spend time cooking. It is probably so important, not least in terms of nutrition and handling of different foods. But it is also evident that there is a shortage of teaching hours. Poor private economic know-how should not have to be inherited. Where you are going must be more important than where you come from, and knowledge of finances in your backpack becomes priceless. The Minister for Education says in his reply that the curriculum is now revised and the knowledge requirements changed. But I'm sorry. That's not enough. I do not agree with the Minister for Education's assessment that this is now a good thing. Madam President, I would like I wonder whether the Minister for Education is satisfied with this or whether she intends to take any steps to ensure that pupils through school get the knowledge they need in terms of private finances.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-425	Madam President, I would like I have to admit, I don't really know what Alexandra Anstrell really wants. Does Alexandra Anstrell want the knowledge requirements to be clarified and tightened up? Obviously, and that demand has already been met. Unlike the quotations in the interpellation, the government, together with the Centers and Liberals, has put forward proposals and decided on new curriculum texts. I note that the curriculum texts are not at all far from what Alexandra Anstrell is calling for. Or does Alexandra Anstrell really want the subject of consumer knowledge to have more hours? Is that the question? In that case, it is only to propose this in the Riksdag. I think there are many others who also want to propose more hours for a variety of other topics. Or does Alexandra Anstrell really want us to earmark certain hours of teaching for those parts of the topic of home and consumer knowledge that are about private finance? This would then be an innovative solution that does not exist for many other substances. We are used to the fact that, through our textbooks, we leave it to the professional and well-trained teachers to set up the teaching in such a way that they meet the requirements set out in the syllabuses. What is, in practice, one of the problems with the subject of home and consumer knowledge, Madam President, is, I would say, that the old wording was just a bit old. It is now adjusted and fixed. The new writings are much better, and I'm proud of them. But the big problems are, as usual in our Swedish school, a large number of demands that are made on teachers and students and a lack of qualified, educated teachers, which is clear not least on the subject of home and consumer knowledge. These are problems with which we must work very hard, Madam President. But to make changes to a decided syllabus that has not yet entered into force – forgive me, but I do not think it improves young people's personal finances.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-430	Madam President, I would like I want a future Sweden to have an expanded policy for freedom – a freedom for all, where both women and men can take responsibility for their economy and where young people learn this. More and more people are applying to Kronofogden to get rid of their debts, so-called debt restructuring. Especially is the increase among young people. During the first six months of the year, 15,325 people applied for debt adjustment, an increase of 41% compared to last year. That's the highest figure ever. In the latest OECD PISA survey, the results show a remarkably low financial understanding of today's young population. Only one in ten young people is considered to be well placed to meet the financial challenges of adult life, and 43 per cent even lack the most basic knowledge in private finances and budgeting. As of 1 June 2021, the new curriculum will come into force, with a little more focus on private finances, but I still do not think that is enough. It's a problem that it's too few hours, or maybe you should work more cross-cutting. Actually, I don't know, Minister of Education. But I think it's important to see the problem. Madam President, I have written a motion on this matter. It came about after a conversation with my son, who is 15 years old today, asking: How do you learn to buy a house? When do you do that? How much should you save, and when do you learn how to save? When I grew up, we had to browse the Lyckoslanten at school, and there was a funny series about Save and Waste. It gave me a good idea that it was better to save than to waste. But what about all that other stuff? I am thinking of the difference between savings and investment, basic knowledge of the stock market, funds and shares, account forms and relevant concepts. Tobias Schildfat writes in his book The Road to your first million that he missed Saved and Slösa's relative Invest in Lyckoslanten. I agree; that would probably be a good thing. Knowing more about investment is also important. A relevant part of the economy is to review your income. You need to learn not only about your expenses but also about your income, which may be relevant now or in the near future. This can be employment, rental, services or assignments. The other day my daughter Johanna asked: "Mommy, there is something about pension savings here in my bank app – what should I do with it?" There's nothing I need to do now, is there? She's 18. We had a conversation about it and talked about what types of employment provide pension-based income and that you can save, save in other ways, invest and more. After all, we are all getting old, and therefore, perhaps, basic knowledge of the pension system should also be important in private finance education. School education on private finances needs to be improved. The central content mentions a great deal, but it is not that much that is measured. The Minister for Education must also agree with that. In addition, when the Swedish School Inspectorate reviewed home and consumer knowledge in early 2019, it was concluded that the subject places too much emphasis on food, meals and health. The Minister for Education has mentioned that she is satisfied with the new knowledge requirements in grade 9. For an E, they mean that you can easily describe factors and decisions that can affect personal finances and consumption choices. I don't think that's enough. In an article in Swedish, Kronofogden's head of unit Per-Per-Olof Lindh says that for the first time in his life he is concerned about the low economic competence and status of children and young people. And, Madam President, so am I. Isn't the Minister of Education?
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-442	Madam President, I would like The new knowledge requirements and the new curriculum are developed in collaboration with Sweden's home and consumer education teacher. The syllabus is carefully reviewed. It has been out on the Swedish National Agency for Education's website so that all Swedish home and consumer education teachers can give their views on it. It has been sent for referral to research institutions and authorities. And finally, we now have a text. This text, Madam President, is drawn up in the light, among other things, of the reports presented by Alexandra Anstrell here. I can only say that I have greater confidence in the country's home and consumer education teachers and all the consultation bodies that have helped to develop the new curricula than I have for conversations with individual school students, although it is of course very interesting to see what students think. This interpellation debate is about a serious problem: that young people have problems with their private finances. This is worth taking very seriously, and we do. We use the tools that the Swedish school provides and that for decades, not to say for more than a hundred years, have helped all children in Sweden get the knowledge they need to go out into working life and life as adults. This is where home and consumer knowledge is important. It is not by chance, Madam President, that this subject includes solid elements relating to private finances. It is also no coincidence that in the subjects of social science and mathematics we carefully review other concepts and knowledge that are needed to be able to take responsibility for your economy. Madam President, I would like There are many demands on the Swedish school. In this area, I am very proud that the government, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, has been able to develop new, clearer knowledge requirements and curricula, in cooperation with the teachers responsible for teaching the subject. I hope that they can lead to better education, too, because no matter how much we discuss the choice of words in governance documents, it is ultimately the teaching that comes with it. Madam President, I will come back to the real problem of home and consumer knowledge: the lack of qualified teachers, which we must work hard to solve.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-448	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer. I certainly agree that it is teaching that makes a difference. But children are asking for this, as are parents, teachers and banks. The enforcement officer finds problems, as well as the Swedish School Inspectorate. Nevertheless, we stand here today with a requirement for knowledge, as the Minister says in his reply: a simple description of factors and decisions that can influence private finances and consumer choices is required in grade 9. .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In addition to the central content, it is the teaching that matters, and it can be very different. That's a problem. Children grow up with completely different conditions to understand and manage money. It's not just unfortunate; it's actually crazy. Madam President, I would like In Sweden we should be able to offer all children the same conditions to earn, save and spend their money wisely. The fact that today's children and young people build their financial understanding on the knowledge they have gained at home is clear. This can be seen in Finansinspektionen's study. Out of 1 000 young people involved, more than half of them turn to their parents for advice and knowledge on, for example, loans and insurance. As I said before, poor private economic know-how should not have to be inherited. I think that responsibility for children's financial education lies cross-functionally at home, at school and at political level. I think we need to work together better on this and welcome all initiatives in order to gain a better financial understanding of all children and young people. Then we need to act, and we need to do that now. As it looked earlier this year, we do not want it in the future. Is the Minister of Education prepared to do more than just lean on the knowledge requirements that she has indicated?
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-454	Madam President, I would like Now I will have to repeat for the third time that all the reports mentioned here form the basis for the changes in the knowledge requirements that have been made. I am proud of the knowledge requirements, and I am convinced that I have reason to be, because they have been developed in cooperation with those who know this best, namely the teachers of home and consumer knowledge. Proud I am, but am I satisfied? No, you can't be happy. Every child and youth must leave the Swedish school with the knowledge in personal economics that is stated in the knowledge requirements. If we are to get there, it is necessary, but not enough, for us to tighten up the knowledge requirements in the way that has already been done. What is also needed are prerequisites for Sweden's teaching staff to really teach these difficult and important issues. There, Madam President, action is needed, and the government is prepared to take these measures. It is about competence development for teachers and ensuring that the teaching profession is so attractive that more people choose it and that more people stay. With the knowledge requirements that we have now adopted, my hope is that the subject can be developed in a very positive way. That, Madam President, deserves our children and young people. Learning about personal finances when leaving school is important.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-457	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad has asked if I and the government will act by law to establish that it is the teacher who decides in the classroom. Roger Haddad has also asked whether I and the government intend to take the initiative in order to clarify in the Education Act that it is the teachers who decide on what concerns the educational work, such as teaching. Roger Haddad has also asked me what other measures I and the government intend to take to restore the status of the teaching profession to society. I fully agree with Roger Haddad that it is the teacher who should decide in the classroom. The school law is very clear on this point. It is the teacher who is responsible for teaching and decides on grades. It is explicitly stated in Chapter 2. Sections 15 and 3 of Chapter 3. Section 16 of the School Act. I would also like to stress the importance of ensuring that all staff and pupils are safe in school. Threats, violence and violations against school staff must never be accepted. Security and study are created by, among other things, involving pupils and guardians so that the school's content and activities can be developed together. A safe working environment is a prerequisite for children's and pupils' learning and development. The Work Environment Act also places demands on the employer when it comes to maintaining a good working environment. In the work against violations, threats and violence against staff we need well-functioning procedures that are known by everyone, routines that also include the school's contacts with social services and the police. Therefore, the Government decided in August 2018 on changes to the curricula to clarify the responsibility of vice-chancellors and pupils for a good working and learning environment. The Government Office has decided that an investigator will assist the Ministry of Education in developing a proposal for a national plan for school work with security and studyo and submit proposals that ensure a functioning regulatory framework for safety and education at school. The investigator will also make suggestions on how to strengthen teachers' work to maintain students. Teachers must be able to feel that they have the support of society as a whole in maintaining a good working and learning environment. Then not only colleagues, principals and principals, but also guardians and the rest of society need to support the teachers. The professional strength and trust in one's own ability build a teacher not alone but together with others. I believe that the whole society needs to see the school as a common educational institution and not as a service in the market where students are customers and teachers providers of knowledge. Furthermore, I believe that teachers should be treated with respect for their important mission in a school that focuses on knowledge and education.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-461	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Anna Ekström, for the answer to my interpellation. Liberals put school first, and school is our most important political issue. It is because it is the most important educational institution we have in our society for the future and for Sweden as a knowledge nation. We have repeatedly raised the issue of the status of the teaching profession in general and also the problem of the culture of registration and the culture of abuse, which we have tried to point out in recent years. We have teachers who are afraid to intervene against disorder. Many teachers and school leaders experience a lack of clarity in school legislation in terms of how they can maintain their studies and security. Work environment work is central. The most important reason why many teachers choose to leave the profession is precisely shortcomings in the working environment and their conditions. Obviously, the problem of threats and violence against school staff also comes under that heading. This applies both to threats and violence against the teaching staff, which is totally unacceptable, and to the principals. Four out of ten principals have been subjected to threats or violence at their workplace. One in four teachers has been subjected to threats and violence at their school in the last academic year. Among other things, this has been reported by the teachers' unions. It's troubling. I have taken on board the Minister for Education's answers to my questions, but the focus is still very much on what has been decided in the past. Then we point to an investigation that is under way and which is not really the theme of this interpellation, which is about parental influence on the school's staff. Nor do I agree with the Minister for Education's reply that the Education Act is clear that it is the teacher who decides in the classroom and that this is explicitly stated in the law. The problems that we have seen – that not only on the part of the students but also on the part of the parents threaten or even cross the border and resort to physical violence and that one does not respect the structure of the teaching, grading, leave decisions and so on – clearly indicate that some parents interpret this a little as they like. Some parents go into school and act a little as they please. There is also an extreme case that has been raised. Thankfully, nothing is common, but there was a teacher in Spånga here in the Stockholm area who was strangled by a father of a student because of a grade he had given. It's not supposed to be like that! We cannot talk about raising the status of the teaching profession if we have legislation that can be interpreted unclearly, school authorities that sometimes indirectly undermine the teaching profession and a registration chain and a culture of registration that, taken together, has contributed to the considerable undermining of the authority of teachers and school leaders in the Swedish school system. This affects teaching and the mission of knowledge, and not least, it results in students not receiving the education and training to which they are entitled. For if the best and most experienced teachers flee the school system, we will have even greater problems with unauthorized teachers, inexperienced teachers, substitutes, own work and other problems that arise in this context.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-468	Madam President, I would like Now I am in the middle of things here, because there is very little of what Roger Haddad says that I want to disagree with. I agree with a great many points. We have a major problem in the Swedish school, and it is about teachers not always being treated as they should be treated as professional professionals with important authority as one of their tasks. Teachers are not treated with the respect they deserve, and that is a very big problem. I was going to use this post not to polemise against Roger Haddad but rather to try to make suggestions as to what we can do about this major problem, and there I see a variety of things. Roger Haddad is lifting up the legislation, and I would like to say that the school law is clear on this point. I do not think that Roger Haddad should be offended by this; it was during Roger Haddad's party's time at the Department of Education that the school law was drawn up in this area. I would also like to point out the curriculum and curriculum texts that exist, and perhaps above all a general advice that has been drawn up by the Swedish National Agency for Education and is about the planning and implementation of teaching. There it is clearly stated that it is the teacher who decides in the classroom and the teacher who decides on the teaching. I would also like to point out the curriculum changes made during the last parliamentary term, where we entered the curriculum that students should treat each other and school staff with respect and contribute to a good working environment in school. It was a curriculum change that originated from the School Commission, and it has strong support in the research that exists. It shows that it is beneficial both for the knowledge mission and for the school's mission to educate the students if the students take responsibility for the work environment. Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that you can write a lot in laws, regulations, curricula and general advice, but the important thing is how it is applied in practice and in reality. Here I would like to point out the important role of the principal. Our principals have a responsibility for the school's work environment. They are employers, but they are also responsible for the students' work environment for very important years in their lives. However, the principal also has an important role to play in maintaining school teams and curricula, and in helping teachers to feel the boldness and security of their professional activities and grades they need to feel. You could say that the principal should have the teacher's back, Madam President. When parents get in touch with everything from subtle pressure to direct threats, which unfortunately is happening, the teacher should not stand alone. Then the teacher should have his head in the back, and the teacher should feel that he has the whole community in his back. For the principals and principals, it is important to take on the sometimes uncomfortable task of standing up for the teachers when parents unfortunately push – and really make it clear. In this context, I would like to take this opportunity to point out the responsibility of all of us. We are all citizens of society. We're parents, and we're in a community where the school is part of it. We all have a responsibility to act. This is partly about people's minds. We're not going to be driving the teachers the way Roger Haddad points out in his interpellation. Instead, we will make sure to contribute to the school being the common educational institution we want it to be, where knowledge and education are in focus and where teachers feel not only security but also joy in carrying out their important tasks.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-476	Madam President, I would like During the time of the Social Democrats in government, the number of incidents of threats and violence at school has doubled. This has happened between 2014 and 2019. After all, I think that the Minister for Education must take responsibility for the actions of his party and what has been done and has not been done on these issues, which I think is seriously neglected. I am critical of the fact that the school law has not been supplemented enough. There have been changes in the school law in recent years, and there have been additions and changes in curricula. But I firmly argue that the school law is not clear when it comes to the teacher who decides in the classroom and that it is the teacher who leads the educational work and decides the teaching. Both in the school law and in the curriculum, it says that the teacher must ensure that all students have a real influence on the working methods, forms of work and content of teaching. It even says that together with the students you should plan and evaluate the teaching. In several places in other chapters of the School Act and not least in clauses concerning pupil influence in the curriculum, it says about rights and the assignment that the school should work with, where the teacher should ensure the influence that both students and not least their guardians use. It is clear that you should have views on parts of the education, but the teaching should be handled by the professionals. So it is the teaching staff, and it is the teachers who should be allowed to control and control their teaching. It is this ambiguity that I firmly believe is being used by demanding parents and guardians, Madam President. Last time there was attention in western Sweden, where this has become a health and safety problem. You can't shut people out anyway, and you can't send parents away just like that. Nor is it possible to refer to an investigation that has nothing to do with this interpellation. That investigation is about students who violate or threaten other students, and what I'm trying to attack here is what we – the state and government, who are ultimately responsible – are doing so that parents don't get this room for manoeuvre. What is being done to make them step back, let the teachers be teachers and not least have respect for the school, for the teachers and for the principals? If we do not have a curriculum that supports this, we do not have a school law that supports this and if we do not even have a policy that supports this, we will never increase the status of the teaching profession. I know that the government is aware that in the last Talis, an international survey, it emerged, among other things, that the presence of abuse and verbal scolding against teachers is greater in Sweden than in other countries. In addition, only 11 percent of secondary teachers said that the teaching profession has a high status. We cannot accept that. All these factors – The Children's and Student's Representative, the School Inspectorate's dual mission, the culture of abuse, the registration culture and also the problem of parental influence on the school's staff, which is what I'm trying to address – do not contribute to a good school. They do not contribute to a good working environment, and they certainly do not contribute to raising the status of the teaching profession.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-482	Madam President, I would like Now the order is restored, because now we are not quite as much in agreement anymore. We fully agree on the problem picture. It is a big problem that Swedish teachers do not feel that they can go to work and boldly carry out their tasks without having to be afraid of threats and violence to the extent that it occurs. I don't want that to happen. I think we also agree that it is an important task for the principal and the principal to have the backs of their teachers and stand up for negative parental influence not to affect. But is the problem really the writings of the school law, Roger Haddad? Is the problem really writing in the curriculum? Is the problem the wording about the right to pupil influence that exists? After all, they do not seek to deprive teachers of their professional responsibility or power, Madam President, but to train students in democracy and responsibility. I would argue that the problem lies in how the rules are applied rather than how the rules are written. I would also like to say that the problem is a general approach to our school, Madam President. Sometimes parents and students tend to see the school as a service where you have the right to order a packaged knowledge and get what you have paid for. My school is a school where students work hard to learn a lot. My school is a school where teachers contribute to students' learning by having a clear leadership in teaching and a clear leadership in the classroom. So far, my assessment has been that the problem has not been the legislation. I am, of course, always prepared to look at the legislation, but I am not convinced that the problems we are discussing here are rooted in the school law provisions on student influence. I rather believe that they have their roots in the picture we have of the school in our Swedish society, where the school has become more and more a service in the market and not a common educational institution. Madam President, I would like Despite the polemics that occur here, I am very grateful to Roger Haddad for constantly raising these questions. It's important. It is important that we all take responsibility for a school that stays together and a school where teachers feel the support from society that they should have. But, Madam President, it is also important that we all ensure that we act in accordance with the, in my opinion, clear wordings contained in the school law and the school curriculum on the teacher's power in school.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-489	Madam President, I would like The government and the Minister for Education do not recognise the basic problem of the status of the teaching profession: the low status of Sweden's teachers and principals. The number of notifications of threats, violence and incidents has doubled, according to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. There is a lack of respect. Swedish teachers receive abuse to a greater extent than colleagues in other countries. The School Inspectorate runs matters, not least through the Children's and Student Ombudsman. We believe that it has gone too far and undermines the teaching staff's authority in maintaining study and security. We also mean that Chapter 4. Paragraph 9 of the Education Act must be clarified. That children and students should be given influence over education I have no problem with. But it also says that they should have influence over teaching. It is about the School Inspectorate, the Children's and Student Ombudsman, the general registration culture and the culture of abuse in the country together with these writings in the curriculum and the school law. I strongly argue that they are still unclear. Clearly, it contributes to uncertainty and ambiguity. That is why, unfortunately, far too many parents do not respect teachers. I am even more concerned when I see that it is a particularly big problem in preschool and comprehensive school when it comes to notifications, according to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. It is about pre-school activities and the activities of comprehensive school. It's about staying time. It's about support. Of course you should talk about such things. But when it comes to primary school, it's about leave routines, how to set up teaching, what subjects you teach and what grade you give. The answers given by the government are not satisfactory. If you have that perspective, you will never solve this problem and raise the status of teachers.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-495	Madam President, I would like I am proud that the latest Talis survey showed improvements both in terms of teachers' experience of their status and in terms of teachers' satisfaction with their profession. I am not satisfied that the figures we get via Talis are figures where Sweden stands out in a negative way. It is clear that the teaching profession must become more attractive, and it is clear that it is there for legislators, for principals, for principals, and not least for all of us who, as parents or otherwise, are dealing with teachers. I am proud, Madam President, that during the last term of office we made a change in the curriculum which made clear with respect the responsibility of students to treat each other and the staff of the school, including the teachers. It's a writing that hasn't been in the curriculum before. I am absolutely not satisfied with the reality described by Roger Haddad, where reports of threats and violence are increasing. Any description of threats and violence in the school world is unacceptable. Madam President, I would like The Swedish school has a lot of problems. We see in international knowledge measurements that the negative knowledge trend has actually been broken, but we still have a lot to do. The work to strengthen the security and education of the students and to strengthen the security and peace of mind of the teachers and the ability of the teachers to perform their work well will continue. I am proud and pleased to be able to cooperate with Roger Haddad on this issue as well.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-500	Madam President, I would like Kristina Axén Olin has asked me how I think we should reduce turnover on principals and more who remain in the profession. I would like to begin by saying that I agree with the interpeller that the large turnover of principals is worrying. The headmaster's leadership plays a central role in the development of a school. The ability of the Vice-Chancellors to lead and develop the work of the pedagogical staff is an important factor in ensuring that students receive high-quality education and education. Several vice-chancellor changes in a short time at a school therefore risk adversely affecting students' schooling. To strengthen educational leadership in the school system, the government has made a number of efforts. One of these applies to preschool. Starting on 1 July 2019, pre-school managers will be called vice-chancellors and will be covered by the state compulsory post education. In addition, the Government has expanded both the position education and the further education of principals so that all school leaders can take part in these efforts, both principals in preschools and assistant principals in all school forms. In addition, the Government has allocated SEK 20 million for the training of school leaders, and this initiative has been permanent. Strong pedagogical leadership and an attractive profession require that school leaders can develop professionally throughout their professional lives. The Government is therefore setting up a national professional programme for teachers and principals based on the report 'Teaching skills at the centre' – a framework for the professional development of teachers and principals. P rogramme t will promote school development and systematic professional development throughout the working life. It is a way to secure teachers' and principals' competence development during their professional lives. The more concrete proposals contained in the report are now being prepared within the framework of the work on the January agreement, which guarantees for widely-based and long-term national professional programmes for teachers and principals. The same study also proposes a state recruitment training for teachers who are interested in becoming vice-chancellors and competence development of vice-chancellors in practical organisation and working environment. These proposals are prepared in the Government Office. The principal also has an important responsibility to provide the conditions for principals to stay at their school. If a school is affected by frequent vice-chancellor changes, you need to follow up and find out why. However, the Swedish School Inspectorate's quality review of many Vice-Chancellor's changes shows that there are few principals who follow up on the consequences of many Vice-Chancellor's changes. Few principals also act strategically when schools change principals frequently. The school manager, who now according to the school law is to be with every principal, has an important role in this. The head of the school is an important link in the chain of control between the principal and the principals. If we can create the conditions for principals to stay longer in schools, and in the profession, we can also create the conditions for them to be the educational leaders that the school needs.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-507	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education Anna Ekström, for your answer. I think we're talking far too little about principals and school leaders. It may be the most important person in the entire school for the development of the school and for us to have a good quality in school. We have about 3,900 principals in comprehensive school and 1,200 principals in upper secondary school. It is deeply worrying about the study that the Swedish National Agency for Education recently presented, which looked at those who worked as principals five years ago, that is, academic year 2014/ 15. After three years, only 40 percent remained in school. Now after five years, only one in five principals is still working at the school. The others have either left school or changed school. Of all those who left school five years ago, more than half, 57 per cent, have left the school world completely. Given how the situation is in today's school and how important the Vice-Chancellor and school management is, I asked Anna Ekström how to reduce turnover and how to get the Vice-Chancellors to stay in the profession. In her reply, Minister of Education Anna Ekström refers to various investigations and to the fact that it is being prepared in the Government Office, but the situation is quite acute. Madam President, I would like I would like an answer to my question: how does Minister of Education Anna Ekström see us getting less turnover and more principals remaining in the profession?
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-511	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Kristina Axén Olin for the question. This is an important thing. It is one of the really important things in Swedish school today. We also see, for example, when we look at the big survey Talis that the Swedish school is characterized by the fact that principals often change schools and stay quite short in their schools. We also see, which is positive, that the Swedish school is characterized by a good position education. There we have an advantage over other countries. The frequent change of principals, however, is a major problem. Kristina Axén Olin is quite right in this, but the important question you have to ask yourself is: Where do we best deal with the frequent vice-chancellor changes? Of course, the state, government and parliament have a responsibility. We are the ones who ensure that there is legislation that sticks together and control chains that work. In our Swedish school system, however, the responsibility for results and quality lies with the so-called principal, and I really agree with those who say that there is an important responsibility for the principal to follow up frequent vice-chancellor changes and ensure that the principals get the conditions they need to stay at their schools. An important observation, Madam President, is that when the Swedish National Agency for Education has made efforts in schools with low results – I am thinking of the old initiative with ten schools and the new initiative Collaboration for best schools – frequent vice-chancellor changes are a recurring observation. It is also an important part of the development work that the Swedish National Agency for Education works with these schools and principals. This should be self-evident, Madam President: research is clear that good school results are linked to the fact that principals stay in their places. Madam President, I would like Kristina Axén Olin criticised me for not answering the question. My answer to the question is that we have to do many things at the same time. From the government we are now working on the professional programme that is requested by our school leaders and has received a very strong support after Björn Åstrand's investigation has been out for a referral. We do this together with the Center Party and the Liberals, but we do it together with the principals themselves through their organisations. It's important work. Should we have a vice-chancellor position where the principals stay on their jobs, thrive and get the strength and the conditions they need to develop the work at their schools so that children and students learn enough, yes, then we must ensure that professional development works and that there is a sensible and appropriate competence development and further training for principals and, Madam President, also a progression for principals. The Vice-Chancellor who steps into the Vice-Chancellor's office quite young and the Vice-Chancellor who steps out ready for retirement has completely different conditions to assume responsibility. Madam President, I would like With the work that we are now doing with professional programmes, efforts on Vice-Chancellor's education and further training for principals and principals who take the responsibility they have in our school system, I see good conditions for us to continue to strengthen the Vice-Chancellor's profession together. It needs Swedish school, and it needs Swedish students.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-520	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that I and the Minister for Education Anna Ekström agree that it is worrying about the rector's transition. In order to get a good quality development in Swedish school, we must, as I said, have leaders and managers who stay. Nor do you often turn a school's development around in one semester; there is a lot of research that says that it can take up to five years before you actually see the results of the good leadership. The statistics that show that in our areas of exclusion there have sometimes had 13 principals in the course of a couple of years are therefore devastating, and that is why I think the question of Vice-Chancellor's and School Director's turnover is so central and something that we should think more about. What the Minister of Education is doing with various investigations and professional programmes, as well as supporting those who are principals today in various ways, of course, is important. However, I think there is a lack of an important element in this, and it is analyses of those who are principals today and those who have left the profession. I have asked the Swedish National Agency for Education whether there are continuous follow-up or closing discussions with the principals who quit and simply go through why. Then the National Board of Education tells me you don't. However, the National Agency for Education shares my view that it would be important and has therefore said that it would of course be interesting to do so. I think it would show a palette of the problems in today's school. Why don't you want to stay in the school world? Why do you change schools? I appreciate that Anna Ekström shares my concerns about turnover and would like to ask if the Swedish National Agency for Education could simply get the assignment to start doing some kind of research or in-depth analysis discussions with our outgoing vice-chancellors. I'm convinced it's one of the keys to how to improve the school so that more principals stay.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-525	Madam President, I would like We fully agree that frequent vice-chancellor changes are a problem in Swedish schools. We see this clearly in international studies. We also see this clearly in the Nordic deep diving that was done in the large Talis studies a few years ago. We also stand out in a Nordic perspective. We have principals who stay quite a short time at the schools. Our principals also have rather small school units compared to what it looks like in many other countries. I have absolutely nothing against the kind of analyses that Kristina Axén Olin calls for, although I am not 100% sure that a mission to the Swedish National Agency for Education is the way to get there. It is clear, however, that we must listen to the principals in order to ensure that their ability not only to do a good job but also to stay in schools is as good as possible. Madam President, I would like This is how I want to come up with a Christmas gift tip for everyone who is interested in principals and principals' conditions. I don't remember the title at the speed, but it is therefore an interesting book by Maria Jarl and others about what characterizes schools with persistently good results and what characterizes schools with persistently low results. What is being achieved combines schools with sustained high results is that they have a headmaster who has stayed for a long time with the teaching staff, who makes the school work together on students' skills and who ensures that there are good quality systems to capture those students who need some extra support and, at least as important, ensure that the extra support is also provided. Madam President, I would like This very interesting research report that Maria Jarl and others have written I hope will be under many Christmas trees this rather gloomy Christmas! To close the Vice-Chancellor's changes is a problem we agree on. I also believe that there is a need for cooperation and cooperation between the political level, but also with the authorities and, not least, with the principals. In fact, I believe that we agree that the main responsibility for the performance and quality of the Vice-Chancellor's conditions lies with the principal.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-531	Madam President, I would like I have also read that book by Maria Jarl, and there is much that is interesting in it. Unfortunately, my brain is overheated too, so I can't remember its name either. It is absolutely the case that continuity and long-termness of leadership are crucial; that is why I wrote this interpellation. It is true that it is the principal who is responsible for the principals. However, there is also a worrying report. The school inspectorate has gone in and looked at 20 school leaders, i.e. municipalities, where there is a large turnover of principals and checked how to follow up the principals. It is a rather sad reading, if you want to read it at Christmas. The Swedish School Inspectorate notes that a follow-up of why Vice-Chancellors stop and the consequences have been made in 20 per cent of cases. The school heads very rarely follow up on why principals stop or what is the consequence of that. There is also no structured and proactive coaching support, as they say on management issues. Now my interpellation was certainly about the rector's transition, but one thing you should do is look at the headmasters' leadership and understanding that they have a responsibility. As I said, I find it deeply worrying when I see that there is so much that is lacking in the leadership of Swedish school.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-536	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Kristina Axén Olin, for the interpellation! There is no doubt that the principals are important. Nor is there any doubt that the principal is under severe pressure. In the previous interpellation debate with Roger Haddad, we discussed violence and threats against executives in Swedish schools. It is just to note that we also have a sometimes very difficult working environment for principals, where parents and others do not provide the principal with the support that the principal needs to maintain what is the school's important mission: knowledge and education for the students who go there and fair and fair grades. It is very good that the principals are lifted, and it is very important that we ensure that the principals have the conditions that they need to be able to do a really good job. Without the headmaster's leadership, we do not have sufficient conditions for teaching in the classroom. We don't get enough conditions for security and study for our students, and we don't get enough conditions for the students to learn as much as they can, no matter what school they go to. Madam President, I would like I would like to finish my speech by wishing Sweden's Vice-Chancellors a really merry Christmas. I hope the principals can get some rest and some peace and quiet after an incredibly hectic autumn semester and a very difficult spring semester. This wish for a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year also applies, of course, to Kristina Axén Olin, even if we see each other in the next interpellation debate!
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-540	Madam President, I would like Kristina Axén Olin has asked me if I see any need for and is prepared to set up an investigation into preschool. I agree with Kristina Axén Olin that we have high ambitions for our preschool. It should be fun, safe and educational for all children who participate. The quality of education is a key factor in raising the achievement of goals in preschool. Preschool teachers should be responsible for the educational content of teaching in order to promote children's development and learning. The teachers thus have a special responsibility for teaching. The teaching also involves others in the team, such as child care workers, in promoting children's development and learning. However, there is a large variation between municipalities and between independent and municipal preschools in the proportion of educated preschool teachers and child care workers. As Kristina Axén Olin mentions, there are unfortunately also preschools without employees qualified preschool teachers even though the school law states that there should be preschool preschool teachers. I find it worrying that in some parts of the country there are insufficiently trained preschool teachers and child care workers. The government is making major efforts to improve the supply of skills in preschool. The training of teachers and trainers is being expanded and recruitment to training courses must continue to increase and broaden. In addition, persons involved in pre-school education can enter a qualifying pre-school teacher training in VAL, further training of unauthorised teachers and pre-school teachers. The Government has recently made changes to the regulations governing VAL so that more people, among other things, have the opportunity to study as preschool teachers. In addition, the government is working on the basis of the January agreement with the Center Party and the Liberals to establish a national professional programme for preschool teachers, teachers and principals. With a coherent system for the competence development of preschool teachers, teachers and principals, school development can be promoted, the attractiveness of professions strengthened and the conditions created for higher achievement of goals. The government also invests in the personnel's competence development, including through the Reading Lift in preschool, which now has a higher search pressure than that for the school. This indicates that the need in preschool is not satisfied, and to meet the need, SEK 75 million has been set aside for the Reading Lift for 2020. I can also mention that the skills development effort Special Education for Learning has been extended and extended to include preschool from 2020. Furthermore, the educational leadership of preschool has been strengthened. Starting on 1 July 2019, pre-school managers will be called vice-chancellors and will be covered by the State Vice-Chancellor's programme. In addition, school principals are given access to the same training measures as school principals. At the same time, the government sees a continuing need to develop preschool. Recently, I received the report Preschool for all children – for better language development in Swedish. Among other things, it has included proposing measures to ensure that preschool staff have adequate competence for the task of developing children's language. The government will continue to carefully consider further efforts that may be needed to meet the skills needs of preschools based on the requirements of the school constitutions.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-549	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Anna Ekström, for your answer. This issue, too, seems to me to be very important, and it is something that we do not discuss too often either. Over half a million children go to preschool, or are left at preschool, every day. In 2018, we received a new revised curriculum for preschool that came into force on 1 July 2019, and we have incredibly high ambitions. Care is part of everything that is to be done at preschool, but you should also learn about children's rights, digital competence, sustainable development, gender equality, national minorities' languages and cultures as well as physical and personal integrity – it's a lot of different things. We have high ambitions, and they are increasing. We now have a number of studies that have presented proposals for compulsory preschools from the age of four; another study has proposed that it should be from the age of three. Recently, Lotta Edholm's study on language preschools came from the age of three. The total amount of space we spend on more and more commitments and higher and higher ambitions for preschool without anyone really thinking about how this should be done. My question to Minister of Education Anna Ekström was really about whether it is not time again for a proper investigation of our ambition, about all our proposals on preschool and what leadership and competence needs look like. It would simply be a major pre-school investigation to make this equation go together. Anna Ekström did not answer that question. Are you prepared to set up an investigation or not?
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-553	Mr President, I would like to I'm very fond of investigations. Normally I usually get criticism from Kristina Axén Olin because there are too many investigations and too little workshop, as it is said – of course I do not agree with that! In this particular area, I think we can consider whether it is now time to set up a major study on pre-school education. The bottom line is that I really like investigations, but I can also say that the current situation is that we have just implemented a major change in the curriculum and introduced a new curriculum for preschool. I agree with Kristina Axén Olin that that curriculum is ambitious. I agree that this curriculum presupposes the availability of skilled labour and that there is good training for the preschool teachers and child care workers that exist. I can also agree if that curriculum presupposes that the new concept of teaching – it is actually a new concept in the world of preschool – can be given the opportunity to develop in a good way. The amazing thing is that the new curriculum has been received so positively by preschool employees. When we implement new curricula, it is usually perceived as a difficult work effort to understand the new. I understand that preschool employees find it very difficult that there are too little resources, and I understand that they find it very difficult that they have large groups of children and many steam hours. However, I did not hear any criticism of the new curriculum that has come, which I think is a good thing that it has received in preschool. I would also like to remind you, as in the previous interpellation, that responsibility for quality and performance in preschool is at the main level – in this case at the municipal level or at the independent preschools that also exist. This is an important responsibility, and I am concerned about the signals that I get that it is a strained situation in preschools, both in independent and municipal preschools. I am also concerned when I see the testimony that keeps coming that you think the situation is getting tougher. But my conviction is that the most important thing we can do is to ensure that the local economy is able to bear the expenses that preschool necessarily entails. Quality in preschool costs money. From the state side, we are prepared to contribute. We have considerably strengthened the local economy with the draft budgets we have put forward, and we have done so quite rightly. The situation in our municipalities is very strained, and I don't want the strained situation to go out on the quality of preschool – I rather want it to be strengthened. I look forward to further discussions with the entire Riksdag and all parties in the Riksdag on how we can ensure that the municipal economy really manages the high quality that we all want preschool to have and which is reflected in our curriculum. Returning to Kristina Axén Olin's question: Does this mean that it is now time to set up a major study on preschool? No, I think that in the current situation, the most important thing is to ensure that the municipal budget provides a substantial economy for preschool, so that you have the opportunity to implement the curriculum that exists, continue to work with language development methods, reading lifts and other things that we do great training efforts around and the opportunity to give every child the safe everyday life that they deserve.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-562	Mr President, I would like to I can agree with the Minister for Education that the revised curriculum has been relatively well received. Then, speaking of our previous interpellation debate just now, where we talked about leadership and principals, I can see that there is also a development potential for preschool. It is not least now during the pandemic. Hundreds of calls are reached from preschool teachers, teachers and others who address very basic management issues. Obviously, there is a lack of leadership in both preschool and school. What concerns me, as I said, was our high ambition for preschool. There too, we Moderates have certainly contributed in various ways with high ambitions and a desire for preschools to do more and more, not least in terms of the knowledge development of children and to make schools more equal. We would like to eliminate the social differences that have been carried along with us in the past. We have done so much work year after year and conducted investigations after investigation, and that does not really rhyme with the situation that is now in preschool. I believe that we must start to put our foot down and think about what is the preschool's mission, so that you can do it and do it well, and what you then need for competence, organisation, support or leadership. In the early 2000s, when you last looked at preschool, almost all the staff in preschool were trained. In 2019, 39.5 per cent had pre-primary education and 18 per cent had child care training. But 31 percent in preschool had no education at all to work with children. This is a deeply worrying development. The Teacher Association and Kommunal sent a letter to the Minister of Education after I had written my interpellation but with more detailed statistics and how they experience the same problem. The staff situation at the moment and the need for skills development do not coincide with all the new assignments that are constantly added to the preschool. According to the research they refer to, one third of the nursery schools are failing in quality. Approximately one third of all preschools are of good quality and one third of them are of good quality, but the third is of low or insufficient quality. We also know after Lotta Edholm's investigation that 263 preschools in Sweden do not have a single preschool teacher, and unfortunately at the preschools where I think both me and Anna Ekström would think that they are really needed most. Although I do not love investigations, I think that we will soon have to put our foot down and decide what is the preschool's task, what should be prioritised and how we can help to get an organisation that lives up to the goals.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-569	Mr President, I would like to It's a little interesting that I like investigations while Kristina Axén Olin, who says she doesn't like investigations, requires an investigation in this area. My assessment, Mr President, is that preschool has a clearly defined mission in the new curriculum in force since 2018, which, in our view, both of us have been largely well received out in preschools. Before making major changes to it, it should be assessed how it has worked and how it might need to be improved. I am, like Kristina Axén Olin, still concerned about what is the Swedish preschool's really big problem, namely the lack of trained staff, which among other things leads to a sometimes totally unsustainable environment for the children and for the staff, at least if you believe the testimony that both me and Kristina Axén Olin get from those who work in preschool. On the other hand, I am very pleased that we have continued to have a high search pressure for pre-school education. Mr President, I would like to We have been discussing the problem of too few applying for our teacher training for years, but it has always been a decently high search pressure and it is now. I am glad that we have been able to increase the number of seats. And perhaps most of all, it warms my heart as the daughter of a nanny that we have opened up more opportunities for experienced nannys to attend the so-called VAL training to get a validation and become preschool teacher. In a previous assignment, I was head of the Swedish National Agency for Education and I was responsible for issuing IDs to preschool teachers. I noticed at the time that the oldest pre-colleagues very often had a degree that consisted of that they had started as a child nurse, then attended different courses and put this together into a pre-colleague education. And I am still convinced that, just like the usual preschool education, it is a good way to get into the profession and a way to take advantage of the skills available in preschool. I would like to highlight one point in Lotta Edholm's investigation, namely the proposals she makes to strengthen the child care profession. It is a profession in preschool that we have talked about far too little about and which is of great importance both for the preschool's educational mission and for the children's happy childhood. I would also like to remind you, Mr President, of the great effort made by the Reading Lift and the efforts made in a language-developing way. This is absolutely necessary in a situation where the trained staff are so small in those preschools where they are most needed. A language-developing way of working there can mean a lot for many children to learn a lot and do well in Swedish society.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-577	Mr President and Minister for Education Anna Ekström! As I said, I usually criticise the Minister for the fact that there are far too much investigations and too little proposals that end up for decision. On this issue, however, perhaps I will repeat that I would like to see an investigation anyway. The human resources situation is worrying. Surprisingly, it is precisely in terms of skills and pre-school teachers that it is in contrast to what is usually the case in society, namely that it is the big cities that have problems with the skills, not the smaller ones. It is in the big cities and above all in our remote areas that we have problems with no trained staff or far too few. In the letter submitted to the government by the Finnish Association of Teachers and Local Authorities, they remind us that, unfortunately, the profession of supervisor is in second place when it comes to sick leave in Sweden. It is therefore a very high sickness absence, which is probably related to the work environment and the mission. Just today, despite the fact that we are near Christmas, the Minister for Education does not want to set up an investigation or make any promises about an investigation. Nevertheless, I hope that we can be vigilant so that, at least, the preschool is not given any new assignments, expectations or even higher ambitions before we have solved how to secure management, governance and competence.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-581	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish preschool is among the parts of our society that are most loved by parents and by all of us Swedes. The Swedish preschool began as a way for us to make sure that mothers could start working. A positive side effect, when we began to expand our preschools, was that children and students had a happy and educational childhood. Now we've turned the steak around. The purpose of preschool is to give children and students a happy and educational childhood, and a very positive side effect is that mothers and fathers can go to work and to education. At the same time, the challenges are great in preschool. I am reached, like many others, by a great deal of testimony from the staff about how worn out you are. Not least during the pandemic, preschools have really been tested. And rarely has it been so clear how popular and loved our preschool is. Despite the strained situation, preschools have been able to keep open. In a very difficult time for mothers and fathers who have to work in health care, care and blue light jobs, they can safely go to work, and the children get a calm and safe place in life. Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity in my last speech to address the fantastic staff in preschool who have worked incredibly hard under difficult circumstances and to extend warm thanks to them for the efforts that have been made. I would also like to thank Kristina Axén Olin for an important issue that should be discussed very much.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-587	Mr President, I would like to Thomas Morell has asked me whether I intend to promote an exemption on the requirement for refresher training in the YKB in the current situation and whether I intend to introduce this exemption quickly and to be a driving force in the negotiations within the EU. The short answer to Thomas Morell's questions is yes. The government is working for this in the EU's work today. The Government has also referred a proposal which, inter alia, means that the certificate of professional competence that would have expired during the period from 1 February 2021 to 31 July 2021 shall be extended by six months. Our professional drivers play an important role in our society, and the government is aware of the transport industry's great need for drivers and the challenges they face. The government has repeatedly pointed out to the European Commission that there is a great need for an extension of exemptions for YKB training and that this work should be done urgently. We have also expressed the need for an extension of the period of validity of certificates of professional competence and the deadline for further training. The government is pushing this, and I have made it clear that we are prepared to take further action if deemed necessary and possible.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-592	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. We have discussed this issue on a couple of occasions. The discussion was also in the spring, and then came the omnibus regulation. When we discussed this just a few days ago, the Government felt that we should not go forward with a national derogation, but now I note that there has been a proposal for a referral on a specific national derogation. That's good, and I'm looking forward to the outcome. However, the government takes too small a step and is as usual late on the ball. I educate myself for professional qualifications and also belong to the old tribe who got YKB with acquired rights. This applies to those who took a D certificate before 10 September 2008 or a C certificate before 10 September 2009. It is these former ones who have created the situation we are now in. The transition period of seven years expired in 2015 for the buses and 2106 for the trucks. This year and next, they will be issued for the D and C certificates respectively. It is about more than 100 000 drivers who are in this range and who are going to renew their YKB, but the large educational institutions in Sweden have closed down the trainings due to the pandemic. This makes it difficult for drivers who have seven hours left to complete their 35 hours. It doesn't matter if there's only seven hours missing, because you don't get any approved YKB until they're done. Now, as I said, the training is down, but some are done remotely. Of 330 training coordinators, my employer, from whom I am on leave of absence, is one of 37 who is able to train remotely. You soon realize what a problem it is for the transport industry when you cannot get a flow in that drivers get their 35 hours and get approved. The proposal for an exception is a good one, but the problem is being pushed forward. Now the training is down, and we have no idea when they can get started seriously. To graze the 100,000 drivers, you have to push a number into the regular training in the autumn, and then you get the same trouble again. The acquired rights and all the drivers in this group have created the situation we are now in and in which we found ourselves this summer when the omnibus package came. According to the Swedish Transport Agency's calculations, 68 100 drivers need training within the proposed exemption period.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-601	Mr President, I would like to I am a little concerned about how the Swedish Democrats have addressed the issue of YKB. I have seen headlines that 100 000 drivers suddenly stand without YKB, that Sweden stands still and that the vaccine will not arrive. I do not know if the latter came from a Swedish democratic representative; it may have been someone else. One should be rather careful to exaggerate what is happening at the moment. Sweden was early on the ball with exemptions, before the EU, when the pandemic hit us last spring. We then negotiated the omnibus package, which has made us have equal rules throughout the European Union. When the infection increased in the autumn, many thought that the EU would automatically prolong this. We and several Member States have pointed out that this has not happened, and only at the Council meeting this week I was told that the Commission is working hard to provide rapid information on an extension or on the possibility of extending the omnibus package, which would of course be the best solution. I believe that the vast majority see the point of finding common solutions, not least with regard to transport within the EU. I have also made it clear that I do not want us to end up in a situation where this affects individual drivers. There have been quite a lot of training this year, so my question to Thomas Morell who says that the shortage is difficult is: How many more have been trained this year than last year? I think this is an important issue, because today it is shown that very many people stand without YKB. During December there are 2,600, which is 1.5 per cent of all professional drivers in Sweden. This is, of course, a concern for the individual driver, and that is why we have now come forward with a proposal on which we hope to have some comments. I have noticed that Sweden's haulage companies and many others are happy about this. The proposal creates the possibility of exemption and also clears out the retroactivity of those who could be affected so that we do not subsequently get drivers who are in a jam when the certificates of professional competence are to be checked. We also propose the possibility of having training at a distance from 1 August onwards, which would mean that in the remainder of the year YKB training could be carried out at a distance. We really must hope that the infection situation does not get worse but that we will have the vaccination campaigns completed in the summer and autumn and a completely different situation in Sweden. But if this is not the case, we will have the opportunity to carry out the entire training activity at a distance. This is our way of dealing with this and finding a quick and smooth solution with national regulation, while we can be sure that the EU is working – albeit late, which I, along with some colleagues, have criticised at the Council of Ministers' meetings. We shall preferably have a common European solution. If I understand Thomas Morell correctly, he proposes that exemption be granted for the whole year. So again, how many more have been trained this year compared to the previous year?
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-610	Mr President, I would like to I'll answer this. The curve follows roughly the same line as 2015. It's a little bit different. So far they've passed the training, but now they're down. It is zero going through right now, except for a few who can get distance training from any of the 37 who have the right to train. This is what has created the whole issue. When the regulatory framework was created, there was a transitional period. There you could choose five years of transition plus or minus two years, and Sweden chose plus two years. So we had seven years as a transitional period, and then it started with five-year intervals. Some European States adopted the legislation directly when it was implemented in 2008. We do not really have the same conditions in the European countries because each state had the option of choosing five plus or minus two years. Finland and Sweden chose seven years, and now we are in a situation where we have a number of drivers who will go through the last seven-hour training sometime in the spring. If you look at the stacks that the Swedish Transport Agency has laid out, you can see that there is a large group of drivers who have not received their training. As far as the exemption period proposed by the government is concerned, 68 100 drivers are next to receive training, but we currently have far too few trainers able to train remotely – only 37. That is the situation today. Then I resent the argument that only 11⁄2% of drivers are affected. Each of the 2,500 who are at risk of getting out of the system has a home and a family to support. It is a small percentage in terms of the overall picture, but the whole discussion is very distorted. I have no worries about a driver driving off his driving licence and thus being stranded and unable to work, but that drivers cannot do their job and that parts of Sweden do not get their transport done because there is a slowness in a bureaucratic process is not acceptable. It is a little interesting that the Government has attributed the Swedish Democrats to the debate. It's a bit of an honor really, because it was the transport companies themselves who posted the article, not us. They showed how serious it is and what consequences it can have for society if transport stops. Everyone realises that if transport does not arrive, whether it be industry, food transport or medicines, it is just as bad. It has consequences in society. So it is not only the drivers who are affected, but all of us also, if we cannot buy food, go to the pharmacy, get our medicines or whatever it may be. It is therefore a huge concern for society as a whole. It is good that the government has now come up with a proposal, but as I said, it is too little and too late.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-616	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we are in the midst of a pandemic in which the infection is still increasing in parts of the country. It's a heavy burden in medical care. It is important that we are clear about urging people to follow the rules that exist. A lot of people are worried. Given that 1.5 per cent of professional drivers in Sweden are at risk of being left without YKB, a problem that we will be able to solve in practice with the referral or with EU intervention, I find it remarkable that the general debate tries to describe it as not coming up and that there are major disruptions in the Swedish transport system. Twice as many were trained in 2020 as in 2019, even though training programmes were cancelled at the end of November as a result of eight-day regulations. We are now creating opportunities to conduct education and training on an exemption basis, and this is something that the training providers have to adapt to. I think it will mean an increased volume and the opportunity to offer more education when we create that opportunity. We make sure to create exemption rules that apply retroactively, and we make sure to have an orderly regulatory framework from the Swedish side but are clear to also advocate a European regulatory framework and to criticise, much as the situation was last spring when Sweden went ahead and where the omnibus package then followed and supplemented. I feel secure with that order, but I am also concerned that the argument is trying to create a concern that is actually unnecessary. For the individual driver, of course, this is a concern – I have been very clear about the members of the Committee on Transport and in the media debate. I have met and talked to many drivers who were concerned because their training was cancelled after the eight-day recommendation. That is also why it has been important to ensure that we have a retroactivity so that they do not suffer. It is not Transportsverige that will stand still. Thomas Morell and I fully agree that transport is absolutely crucial for Sweden in general; I believe that all the infrastructure ministers at all times have signed up to this. We need to do everything we can to make Transportsverige work, including describing what challenges it means to be a professional driver, what the regulations look like and what a fantastic job it can sometimes be, but also how the conditions can be improved. Since we received a government under Social Democratic leadership in 2014, Sweden has been pushing precisely these issues to ensure that we get a mobility package so that wages are not dumped, with cabotage and international traffic on Swedish soil, and that we can instead have postings from day one, which means that those who come from other countries and drive truck traffic in Sweden have reasonable conditions but also that Swedish haulage industry has fair conditions of competition. We have introduced a variety of rules, ranging from the application of sanctions to the imposition of fines and the responsibility of the client, to organise and decent the daily lives of professional drivers and to ensure that reasonable conditions are created. This is because we had a change of government in 2014. As I have reminded you earlier about the party that Thomas Morell claims to want to cooperate with in a change of government – the Moderates – they did not lift a finger during their reign to create order and order. Rather the opposite – they wanted the law of the jungle when it comes to Transportsverige. This gave us dumped wages, poor social conditions and a poor competitive position for Swedish haulage industry.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-623	Mr President, I would like to What the Moderates did before the current government took office in 2014 has nothing to do with it. We are talking about how to resolve the situation here and now for the 100,000 drivers in the group who are at risk of not being able to complete their training. The fact that there are more educations this year has to do with it following the curve in which we have the acquired rights. I myself have trained several thousand drivers over the years in YKB and know exactly what it looks like and where it will land. It had been possible to predict with almost surgical precision when it will occur. If you look at what it looks like and how the Public Health Agency assesses the situation, you see that it is really bad for us right now with the spread of infection that we have in society. We have no idea whether it will end in February or March and whether vaccines will solve the situation or whether we will still have a problem picture this summer. If so, what happens if we cannot train remotely to the extent that we need? Then we will stand here and have the same discussion again in May. I will not put this issue in a drawer and wait for it to pass. I can guarantee here and now that it will be lifted up again, because we will not solve it with what is on the table today. We must have a derogation that covers a much larger time span in order for this to work out. As I said, 5 000 drivers will be affected before the regulations come into force. There are 5 000 drivers who are unable to make a living during December and January. It's bad.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-626	Mr President, I would like to I should remind Thomas Morell that the proposal contains a retroactiveity covering drivers from 1 November 2020. That's the first thing you should remember. The second is that in 2020 37 000 were trained, compared to 13 500 in 2019. It is therefore a significant strengthening of people who have obtained a certificate of professional competence or the necessary training – a strong strengthening. The regulatory framework we are now proposing is valid until six months ahead, and it is also about distance learning from August onwards. It is true that no one can predict the spread of infection, and that is why we are also ensuring that these opportunities are created in terms of both distance training and ensuring that the exemptions apply to the individual professional driver. But with what Thomas Morell is proposing, with one year's exemptions, we are in danger of having a very tough situation for the remaining educational players that exist. We want to find a solution that creates both a prerequisite for the individual driver and for Transportsverige to manage the YKB trainings. But it is also a question of those involved in training. They shall be able to receive and implement this. You have to be able to think two thoughts at the same time. We believe that the solution we now refer to is the best one. This means that we also create opportunities for distance learning. We are acting, but we are also making sure to put pressure on Europe to act even faster. I have been critical of the fact that the European Commission has not already announced an extension of the Omnibus package in the past. This should have been done by the European Commission in a situation where it was seen that the infection increased significantly in Europe in late autumn. Now the Commission is on it, and we are a number of Member States pushing for it. However, pending the EU doing so, we are also acting ourselves in Sweden.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-631	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked me if I have taken new initiatives to implement Directive 2018/645 in order to enable drivers with a B driving licence to drive light trucks provided that the extra weight is justified by alternative fuels. On 10 December, the Government instructed the Swedish Transport Agency to carry out the necessary impact assessment to assess whether drivers with a B licence can drive vehicles up to 4,25 tonnes – on the basis of the assumption that weight gain depends exclusively on alternative fuels.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-633	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for Infrastructure for the answer to my interpellation. We know we're in a pandemic. It's a crisis. At the same time, however, another crisis is taking place, and it is the climate crisis – the emissions that we must quickly bring down to a minimum, so as not to endanger good lives in the future for our children and grandchildren. The sector with which both I and the Minister for Infrastructure work on a daily basis is the transport sector. The transport sector in Sweden accounts for approximately 30% of our emissions. In this respect, emissions really need to be reduced, and that is very much the case. We have a target for this sector for emissions to be reduced by 70% by 2030. Urban freight transport is an important area in this sector. It is the supply of food and goods to households. You drive equipment to smaller industries and businesses and so on. We see that these are transports that are increasing significantly, not least now during the pandemic as online trade is growing rapidly. Here we really should do everything we can to bring about a fleet of vehicles without emissions. Today, many logistics companies want to invest in just such vehicles: electric vehicles, biogas vehicles or hydrogen vehicles. But the crux of these vehicles is that the total weight of the light truck increases by somewhere between 30 and 60 percent. They are a little heavier, because there is a large battery pack or a tank on the vehicle, and today's B driver's license only allows you to drive vehicles with 3.5 tons weight. Now the EU has amended its driving licence directive precisely to allow for derogations from this, in Article 6(4). A number of countries have implemented this driving licence directive so that light environmental trucks can be driven with a B driving licence. I raised this issue with the Minister at the end of December last year and got the answer that this is a question that requires an impact assessment. That was the answer I received on 9 January. And now, as happened, the Minister announced yesterday that he has given a mandate to the Swedish Transport Agency to carry out just such an impact assessment to allow drivers with a B driver's licence to drive vehicles of up to 4.25 tonnes provided that they are vehicles powered by a renewable fuel, i.e. electricity, biogas or hydrogen. Mr President, I would like to I think this is excellent. This is a fantastic positive message from the Minister for Infrastructure. I really want to thank him for that. It would have been even better if the message had come a little earlier because I raised the question a year ago. But well, this is very good. In view of the decision taken yesterday by the Minister and the Government on the mission to the Transport Agency, I would like to know whether it is possible to speed up the impact assessment. As I understand it, this should not be finished until November 15th. And above all, we all want to know: When is this introduced into Swedish law so that transport companies, hauliers and others know that they can drive their environmental vehicle with a B driver's license?
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-643	Mr President, I would like to I join the debate because the change in the EU driving licence directive is based on a proposal from the Swedish Democrats down in Brussels. The reason is that you should be able to drive these vehicles inside distribution traffic and do so with e.g. electric drive. The electric drive makes the vehicles heavier because the battery pack is quite heavy. But there is an advantage in having this type of vehicle especially inside city centres: it will be a significantly better environment for residents and for those who stay there, not only for emissions but also because of the noise level. We often hear that Sweden should be a shop window and an ongoing world exhibition on how to become fossil-free. One is therefore a little concerned when it takes so great a long time to introduce such a change, which would improve the environment inside the city centres. That would be the case if these cars could be powered by electric power. It does not affect competitive conditions or anything like that, for there is no difference in the load weight itself. It does not affect road safety either, as the vehicle is designed to carry this weight. And to me as a driver, it does not matter very much if I drive a vehicle of three and a half tons or if it weighs 4 250 kilos. I do not quite understand why it is so slow to do this. It would have been good if we had taken a step forward considerably faster.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-648	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jens Holm, for the praise! It warms up. We'll see it as a happy Christmas present to the Left Party, but above all to the climate – that's what it's all about. We will make sure that we facilitate all the initiatives that are now being taken to change Sweden and the transport sector. It's important. We will use the opportunities available, and this is an important part of ensuring that we can maintain Transport Sweden and take advantage of the commitment that exists and still make sure that now electrify or, for that matter, make biofuels change in the transport sector. Not long ago, at the beginning of the week, I started the first meeting of the Electrification Commission. We are now bringing together the business community and many other actors to speed up electrification in Sweden over the next two years. It is about the construction of electric roads and the expansion of charging infrastructure. It is an important part, and it is often widely debated. This is just as important: to create the conditions for vehicle change. Then I can get a little worried when Thomas Morell rallis over the time suit. I think everyone realises that both the Government Office and the authorities are heavily burdened by the current pandemic. Officials work around the clock to ensure that Transportsverige can work, whether we are talking about YKB, about credit guarantees for flights or about other efforts that we are now making to jointly create the best conditions for Sweden to sort out a pandemic. It's not about laziness, it's a tough workload where we work hard in government, government offices, government agencies and very many parts of Sweden to cope with this pandemic. Nevertheless, we are at a high pace in terms of climate change. In this case, we are giving this task in order to manage the balance that a 750 kilo higher weight can actually mean. To Jens Holm, I would like to say that it says, by 1 November at the latest. I am at least as eager as Jens Holm that this should go quickly, but the Swedish Transport Agency and the other authorities are, as I said at this point, heavily burdened by the pandemic we have. However, the ambition is to ensure that the conditions are created as quickly as possible. The advantage is obvious, and Ica and many others in the retail sector have also borne witness to this: when they are faced with a change of transport vehicles in the future, this may mean an opportunity to get, without having to require a YKB or a special driving licence, a modernisation of the vehicles with battery capacity or other means of making the vehicles heavier. So this is a smart proposal. Many people have thought and thought so. We now propose that it be investigated at the Swedish Transport Agency.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-656	Mr President, I would like to I very much welcome the focus on In fact, I believe it was stated on 15 November in the Government's mandate, but it is no later than 15 November. I hope that the impact assessment can be done faster than that, because in fact – at least in my opinion – it is not a hugely complicated issue. We can already see that more than ten EU countries have implemented this change in the driving licence directive. I can mention Germany, Spain, Ireland, Denmark and Austria. Even our neighbour, Norway, has done so. I have asked the Parliamentary Investigation Service to look a little more closely at this. Their report is on my website – I see that Thomas Morell is sitting with it in his hand, quite right. It can be seen that several of the countries do not seem to have conducted a proper consultation with the European Commission, something that is required for this. I think, of course, that we should follow the protocol, and I do not think we need to be afraid that dialogue with the European Commission will take very long. I would like to hear from the Minister for Infrastructure whether this consultation has already begun with the European Commission so that the implementation of this can go a little faster. Mr President, I would like to I hold here in my hand a letter from the 2030 Secretariat, the Transport Companies, Energigas Sweden and Bil Sweden, in which they really appeal to the Minister for Infrastructure for a quick handling of this. They underline that it is not just easy goods transport. Sick transportation and transportation services also use the same vehicle. There is the same desire to switch to electric vehicles or vehicles with sustainable fuels. Speaking of this, I would also like to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that a few weeks ago I visited the logistics company Widriksson here in Stockholm. They were proud and wanted to show off their 30 new environmental vehicles they had bought – light electric trucks, biogas cars and HVO cars. But then they said: We have a problem, and that's that 70% of our drivers have only B driving licences. The other 30%, those who have a driver's licence for trucks, we need to drive just the heavier vehicles. We therefore appeal to you, Jens: Get in touch with the Minister for Infrastructure and ensure that this is handled quickly! Now it's the message. I would like to repeat, Mr President, the question I raised in my first speech: when the Transport Agency has carried out its impact assessment, Tomas Eneroth, what happens then? And when does this team in Sweden become so that it really applies?
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-661	Mr President, I would like to I have here the investigation from Parliament's investigation service. We can see that Britain has solved this by getting a five-hour additional training when driving this type of vehicle. In Norway, you must have had a B certificate for at least two years. It is therefore quite easy to introduce this on the driving licence side. If you feel confident in introducing a five hour training course to lift the level – fine, do it! But we have to get to the bottom of it. I'm also talking to truckers who would love to have this type of vehicle in. It is also a way for hauliers to market themselves in their transport mission. This is basically knocking on the door. It is important to unlock, open and let in this vehicle type with Bertil authorization. How hard can it be?
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-663	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we have given the mission, and the ambition is that this should be done as quickly as possible. The idea is that as soon as we have an analysis from the Swedish Transport Agency, we will have to consider how quickly we can implement this. Nevertheless, I would like to make a slip: although we see that many other countries have introduced this and my hope and desire is that we too should be able to do so, we should also remember – it is particularly important for the members of the Committee on Transport – that we have seen an increase in fatal accidents, not least among lorries in recent times. We know that it is associated with an increased risk of serious accidents when vehicles are heavier. We know that there are also consequences. I want and think that we in Sweden should always be careful when making changes to the regulations so that we take into account all the different aspects. Having said that, however, this should be done as quickly as possible to ensure that we can facilitate and improve the conditions for a transport industry that now also very much wants to become part of the climate transition. In this context, I can ask Thomas Morell why it seems so important to call for cuts in petrol tax or dramatic savings in the climate budget when, on the other hand, we are talking hotly about climate change here in the floor. I believe that Sweden, with the right priority, with the right efforts, with an electrification commission electrifying Sweden, with major investments in a radical and progressive climate policy and with a shift in the transport sector can become the permanent world exhibition we sometimes talk about, where we show that it is possible. At the moment there is also a development – we should not forget it – in parts of the world where leaders and political parties take the pandemic as an argument not to push forward the climate change. We are busy with the pandemic, they say. We don't have time for this. Yeah, we got time. We have to make it. We are now increasing the requirements in terms of conversion, and we are speeding up investments in Sweden to manage to reduce CO2 emissions from not least the transport sector. I am optimistic about the 2030 targets and the conditions for achieving them. I think this is a big challenge for all of us in the future with 2045 and net zero. This will require a great deal of investment. This is an important step along the way. As I said, this is very much to be done quickly. Now the mission has been given, and I look forward to having it reported to me as soon as possible from the authority.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-671	Mr President, I would like to As I said earlier, I think it is very good that this mission has been given. It is very good that the Minister is pressing so clearly for the impact assessment to be carried out urgently. My question was when we can see this in Swedish law. Could the Minister imagine that there might be other ways of solving this, that is to ensure that with a standard B driving licence you can drive a light environmental truck that weighs up to 4.25 tons? As Thomas Morell mentioned, the investigation carried out by the Swedish Parliament's investigation service showed that different EU countries have dealt with the issue a little differently. It would be interesting to know whether the Minister already has any thoughts about it. But above all, I wonder when there will be a change on the ground, so to speak. I think a lot of people are interested in that. One might think that this is about short and few transport, but there are very many transports. We see that these transports, i.e. urban transport, are relatively short and that take place within cities, are increasing extremely much now, not least during the pandemic when people are increasingly shopping online. It is not just a climate issue, it is also a local health issue concerning air quality in our cities. It is also a question of noise and accessibility. If you can go for a ride instead of two, it's clear that we'll reduce the crowd. It would therefore be very good to know a little more about the process itself after the analysis and also whether the Minister has extended the hand to the European Commission on the consultation that the Minister himself says is required for us to make this change. Is there any ongoing consultation with the European Commission on this?
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-677	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jens Holm, for the commitment! It's incredibly important. I can add to the list of all the various reasons why this is important to say that we are seeing a significant increase in e-commerce, which is understandable and certainly positive in pandemic times because it helps to reduce the spread of infection, but we saw it even before the pandemic. It is something which, in addition, concerns me that a sharp increase in transport as a result of increased e-commerce is not always desirable, especially if it is ineffective. To the list of effects, we should also add transport efficiency. Let us ensure that we have a more transport-efficient society. Electrification is part of reducing emissions, but the second part is to coordinate transport and increase information between them. I cannot tell you here and now exactly when the proposals will come into force. If we give an assignment to an authority to quickly produce a basis, I first want to see the basis in order to be able to make a proper assessment. Jens Holm knows me from before and knows that I am passionate and eager to make many proposals, which we also do at the Department of Infrastructure, not least to speed up the transition in the transport sector so that we reduce emissions.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-682	Mr President, I would like to Jessica Thunander has asked me whether I intend to commission the Swedish Transport Administration to draw up a revised focus paper. Currently, the government's current transport infrastructure plan is being implemented. It is an investment of over SEK 700 billion which, among other things, means the largest railway investment in modern times. We do this to increase accessibility, modernise Swedish infrastructure and increase opportunities for climate-smart transport. The plan contributes to Sweden's very ambitious climate policy. Sweden will be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. The climate targets set shall be met. The government is implementing a large number of measures to reduce emissions from the transport sector. It is about making Sweden a more transport-efficient society with the transfer of transport to more climate-efficient modes of transport. It is also a question of speeding up electrification in society, increasing the share of biofuels and making vehicles more efficient. The instruments are being reviewed and calibrated to achieve our climate goals. The Government has now begun work to develop a new national plan by allocating a specialization basis to Trafikverket, among other things. In the mission, the government is clear that climate targets are a central starting point for planning. The papers need to show how instruments and other measures affect transport and how different initiatives in the transport infrastructure affect the ability to achieve our climate goals. The Finnish Transport Agency has therefore been tasked with basing its focus base on a scenario where climate targets are reached. This also means that the socio-economic calculations should be based on a traffic work consistent with this scenario. The Finnish Transport Agency reported its focus data on 30 October. At the same time, the base was widely consulted and will be prepared in the usual way within the Government Office.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-688	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, for your answer. We need to reduce traffic in order to meet climate targets. Among other things, traffic experts from the IVL Swedish Environmental Institute and Trivector have emphasised this both in research reports and in articles in, among others, New Technology. They, like us, note that there are no proposals in the Finnish Transport Agency's focus data for the next planning period for a transport-efficient society where accessibility can increase while the amount of traffic decreases. Instead, the Finnish Transport Agency assumes that road traffic will increase significantly according to the basic forecast they have made, and they then plan instead of following the climate targets. IVL was involved in developing a basis for how a reduction obligation could look and work, but they are now forced to point out that it was never intended to be used as a pretext for not investing in other important areas. The lack of effort leads to a far too great need for biofuels but also to an impact on the distribution of money. We in the Left Party share the concerns about the possibility of achieving climate targets and are also concerned that this is at risk by an unrealistic and unsustainable belief in domestic biofuel production. The Finnish Transport Agency has, without providing any evidence for the deviation from previous assessments made of sustainable potential, while completely ignoring the needs of other sectors, such as shipping and air transport. I note that the Minister for Infrastructure once again responds with the statement that Sweden will become the world's first fossil-free welfare country and that the climate targets set are to be achieved. I really wish it was enough to repeat the words as a formula for that to happen. Of course, that is not the case. I am worried when the Swedish Transport Administration says in its documentation that the infrastructure itself does not affect climate emissions and that they are not responsible for how many people use it while at the same time wanting to invest in more and larger roads and rely entirely on biofuels and electrification to achieve the goals without having anything about a transport-efficient society. The Minister for Infrastructure says that the government has been clear in its mission, and this may have been the case, but given that this is not reflected in the focus data that has been developed, it is either that the mission has been unclear or that the Swedish Transport Administration has interpreted the assignment differently from the government intended. The Minister refers, and I understand this, to the process around Trafikverket's documentation and to the fact that the basis is out for consultation. I take that as a 'no' to my question and I am adjusting it somewhat on that basis. If in the consultation round there is a deep dissatisfaction with how the Swedish Transport Administration has interpreted its mission and that the climate targets cannot be reached with the measures proposed, can the Minister consider commissioning the Swedish Transport Administration to develop a revised focus paper to develop instruments and reforms for a transport efficient society or develop a proposal for a national plan that does not start from the base but clearly steers towards our climate goals?
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-698	Mr President, I would like to This is a very important debate. What we invest today has consequences for tomorrow. If more motorways are built, there will be increased road traffic and there will be increased emissions. Regardless of what is said about everyone having electric cars and so in the future there will be increased emissions in the next ten years. Trafikverket has a so-called basic forecast that you start from when you make your basis for the infrastructure plan. In the base forecast we can see that you calculate with increased road traffic. I find that a little strange. If we allow increased road traffic, we will also have increased emissions. According to Trafikverket, this will be compensated by an extremely high use of biofuels, an increase of 70 per cent by 2030. There is also talk of increased fuel taxes, up to SEK 50 per litre. Everyone understands that such things are not reasonable. We simply need to build a more transport efficient society, as the Minister for Infrastructure said earlier and as Jessica Thunander points out in her interpellation. In this connection, I would like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure what concrete efforts are being made in an effective way to build a transport-efficient society that he finds in the Finnish Transport Administration's basis for the national infrastructure plan. It would be interesting to hear a number of such concrete examples, so that the Minister for Infrastructure's speech on building a transport-efficient society will not only be fine words, but we can also see that it is taken care of in the process that has now been started on the basis of the Finnish Transport Agency. It is usually said that the truth is in the details, Mr President. These details contain the evidence that the Finnish Transport Administration uses to make its forecasts. Since 2012, different calculation models have been worked on, for example, when calculating travel time gains for different modes of transport. The Swedish Transport Agency is based on a model in which a lost travel minute by road, with its own car, is about twice as serious, a double loss, as a lost travel minute by public transport, by train or bus. On the basis of this, it will be more effective to invest more in road transport and thus to eliminate and remedy problems in road transport. In the Finnish Transport Agency's documentation we also see that you see a very small profit with a transfer to other modes of transport, for example increased train travel. Couldn't it be that you're using the wrong calculation models? We know that others, such as KTH and in academia, use completely different models to calculate travel time gains. Several other countries, such as Denmark and the United Kingdom, value a lost minute equally regardless of the mode of transport. In fact, in France, they value a lost minute twice as much for rail travel, precisely because they want to be able to enhance rail and rail travel. What does the Minister for Infrastructure think about these calculation models, which are the whole basis for the Swedish Transport Administration's analysis and planning work?
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-705	Mr President, I would like to I intend to focus mainly on Jessica Thunander's interpellation on the goals and conditions for reaching them. But I would like to briefly replicate in terms of calculation models. It is the Swedish Transport Administration itself that decides which different models you want to use. We steer with the goals and guidelines we have for the authorities when they will produce their data. I have explained to the House that the Swedish Transport Administration is tasked with basing its focus on a scenario in which the climate targets are to be reached. There was a similar debate before the previous national plan which, despite what Jens Holm says, resulted in the greatest railway effort ever. There was a strong reinforcement of climate-smart transport and historic investment in both rail maintenance and new investments in rail. For the first time there were also investments in shipping, cycling and other things that help to change Transportsverige. That's what needs to be done. That's the point of departure. In view of Jessica Thunander's argument, I can understand the concerns about biofuels. I think a lot of people have. We should also remember that there are many different stakeholders who have different interests in arguing about and discussing concerns about biofuels. Of course, everyone understands the priority challenge we face. We do not only have the ambition to cope with the need to reduce the availability of biofuels in the vehicle fleet. Furthermore, we want to look at biofuels access to shipping, not to mention aviation. The challenge we are facing is to both increase the domestic production of and the conditions for biofuels in Sweden while ensuring that their use is gradually increased, as road vehicles are actually electrified, and that biofuels can be used more widely in aviation, for example. This does not mean – it is as good to have such a discussion – that aviation is thus climate-friendly. There are also major challenges with biofuels, such as high altitude effects and others. It's important that we be honest there. But we should also remember that Sweden is the country that goes the longest when it comes to setting climate requirements, not least on flights. I did not long ago in the ICAO General Assembly demanding the taxation of fossil aviation fuel. Sweden was the only country that did it. It is important that we have such a discussion, about the strategic use of biofuels, about the conditions for electrification and, not least, about hydrogen and its conditions for accelerating development. I think that we should all be humbled, whether it be the Finnish Transport Agency, the Trivector or we are debating in this House, because at the moment there is a very rapid technological development in electrification. We see this clearly on the battery side, and we see it on the hydrogen side. We also see it in the conditions for electrifying. What we in Sweden need to work with – it is partly outside of Trafikverket's mission – is with the access we have on renewable energy create the conditions for electrifying Transportsverige and make sure that it is possible to charge electric cars and have electric roads throughout the country. I think the latter is so important. We must not end up in a situation where steering towards climate targets means that all efforts are made only in densely populated areas or where traffic is at its most intense. That is one of the reasons why politics is so important in this. If we're going to make that transition, we can't just do it in big cities. We have to do it all over the country. This is an important starting point when we are now working on the next national plan.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-716	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure. With regard to the previous national plan and what is going on now, we have seen that the freight transport strategy, which we have all hoped for a great deal, has not really produced the desired effects. The transfer of goods has not increased. As far as inland waterway transport is concerned, transport has been reduced. Vänersjöfart has decreased a lot. This also applies to shipping in Lake Mälaren. In the case of Vänersjöfart, it is almost free to drive the goods on a truck instead of paying quite a lot of money to use by sea. Of course, it needs to be addressed. When it comes to rail investment, you can also count in bnp and not just clear money. There was a time when we invested a little more than twice as much in percent of bnp as we do today on the infrastructure in general. Reference is made to the major railway initiatives. It's nice. But that is not quite enough. Given how much the population has grown in recent decades – significantly faster than in the past – and that transport work has grown even more and faster as we overconsume more and more, I mean that you have to count in other ways and speed up something. However, according to the government, this major initiative means that regional routes are being depriorised and stopped. In 2017, the Finnish Transport Agency decided to introduce a new basic level for basic maintenance on rail. The aim was to release funds from basic maintenance in order to increase the proportion of reinvestments, reduce maintenance debt and take into account annual cost changes. Priority is given to high-traffic routes as there is no means of maintaining and recovering the maintenance debt on the entire network. The fact that maintenance on regional routes has a lower basic level is released for all funds, but at the same time these runways have less preventive maintenance and components are replaced to a lesser extent with increased fault removal and closure of certain runways as a result. Instead, we need to maintain and maintain the railways we have. This brings me to the second question I asked in the interpellation. It is again a question of forecasting and target management. As it is now, infrastructure planning and construction are guided by forecasts of how people are supposed to travel and how goods are to be transported. One almost always imagines that it will increase on the roads. At the same time, rail transport has increased substantially, and we need to make even greater efforts. You can also see how investments on rail make people go more, regardless of whether the Swedish Transport Administration has previously predicted that it will make no difference. People simply want to ride trains. The question is therefore: would the Minister consider giving the Finnish Transport Administration a sharper directive on the use of target management instead of forecasting?
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-723	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the Minister for Infrastructure and the Government can commission their own authority Trafikverket to have a broader basis when analysing and calculating. The Minister has just done so when he asked the Swedish Transport Administration to have the climate target as the governing body when they do their planning. I think that is excellent. Similarly, these calculation models should be reviewed. The minister now says he's sticking to responding to Jessica Thunander's interpellation. I can respect that. This was, however, a contribution from my side. The Minister deals with biofuels, which is a very important issue. It seems that everyone believes that biofuels will solve everything. In Trafikverket's data they talk about an increase of 70 per cent. Last week, when I debated the issue with the Minister for Environment and Climate Change, she talked about the fact that the reduction obligation alone will lead to a need for 45 terawatt hours of biofuels each year. It should be remembered that we now use about 20 terawatt hours of biofuels per year. In other words, it is more than a doubling. The industry has sent in 22 roadmaps, and almost all of them want to use more biofuels in one way or another. This will lead to an increase in demand of more than 80 percent," says Sweco. I would like to ask the Minister how much biofuels he considers sustainable to use in Sweden. I also think that Jessica Thunander's question of targeting targets rather than post-prognoses based on increased road traffic is very topical. It would be interesting to get an answer from the minister.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-727	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jessica Thunander, for highlighting important issues! This is particularly true of the existing disadvantages or the challenge of traffic forecasts and investment in rail. We all know that there are a number of examples where the preparation of infrastructure projects has not really seen the incredible exchange that can occur when making rail investments. Travel patterns change, and more choose to take the train. That is also the root cause of the huge effort that we are making. It is the largest railway investment in modern times. There will be a huge increase in railway maintenance. That's a 47% increase. There will also be clearer governance with long-term plans together with maintenance companies and train operators. We will use a methodology where it is not only to jump in for an hour or so now and then when it is possible to do railway maintenance. Instead, as at Getingmidjan, large parts are closed to more systematic renovation of the Swedish rail system. This is an important part of the need for new investment. I can share Jessica Thunander's view that the needs are great, whether it concerns the smaller parts of the rail network or the really large new main rail lines for high-speed trains. Wherever I travel in the country or as I now meet regional representatives, business representatives or civil society at digital conferences, there are calls for more infrastructure investment and not least on rail. Perhaps the biggest challenge here is the development of costs, i.e. the cost of building rail. As far as the data are concerned, the Finnish Transport Agency has to take a position on forecasts of how freight transport and passenger transport will increase, but of course they must also take as a starting point that the climate targets are to be met and which instruments and fuels are to be used. I note that the Finnish Transport Administration chooses to place a great deal of emphasis on biofuels in its focus paper. I'm not going to review the Finnish Transport Administration's documentation, because that's what referral bodies are going to do, and we're going to have hearings about it. I shall await all these comments. In general, however, I can see in the debate that there are advocates who believe that biofuels will be the solution to the most a. Correspondingly available for electrification. And not long ago, I met with a number of representatives who said that hydrogen will now revolutionise the world. Our strategy is a little broader than that. We have made these mistakes earlier in Sweden when we have chosen a single technology or a propellant and thought it should be supreme. It's not like that. We are a small export-dependent industrial country. We will depend on how the outside world acts. Even if we in Sweden choose a particular technology or approach, international changes can change the conditions for us, whether it concerns EU legislation, market conditions or other. Let us therefore be careful to do a proper world reconnaissance and ensure that we have several different strategies. Therefore, increasing the use of biofuels, the reduction obligation proposals and production aid are an important part of development. The second is electrification. We have an electrification commission that speeds up electrification, not only of road transport but also of the possibility of electricity for shipping and air transport. We are also looking at transport efficiency. I think that Jens Holm is raising this up in a commendable way. There's– I won't say low-hanging fruits – very great potential to find even more efficient transport opportunities. This is especially true now that with digitalisation and connectivity we can have better control of flows. This is where we work together. I look forward to hearing the views of the Left Party, other parties and many other actors on the Finnish Transport Administration's focus data.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-736	Mr President, I would like to I am not in any way opposed to electrification or biofuels, but the basic problem is that transport efficiency and other measures are completely lacking in the Finnish Transport Agency's documentation. It relies entirely on biofuels and electrification, but we must also have a change in behaviour. Road traffic must be reduced in order for us to achieve the climate targets. Traffic cannot increase as it happens and as it is predicted. Then we cannot have infrastructure planning based on basic forecasts that show a significant increase in road traffic and build on it. Instead, it must be the climate objectives that are the basis for planning and construction. As it is now, the marginal perspective that Trafikverket has excludes infrastructure planning as part of a larger transition where opportunities are created to change today's transport patterns. My contribution is primarily that the Government and the Finnish Transport Agency need to realise that the infrastructure and its planning is a fundamental part of the transformation that must take place and that is very urgent. This should have been done decades ago. The Government should give the Finnish Transport Administration much more stringent instructions to move from forecast-driven planning to goal-driven planning and to clarify the important role of infrastructure planning in the conversion process.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-739	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jessica Thunander for an important debate and discussion. I want to make a correction. The Swedish Transport Agency is tasked with basing its focus base on a scenario where climate targets are reached. It is also goal management. The Swedish Transport Administration also uses various socio-economic assessments and forecasts in its working methods. I believe that this is an important complement. Then everyone is welcome to have views on the Finnish Transport Administration's focus material, and many will have that, not least during the hearings we will have in the future. In this context, we must remember that we are facing a future clear shift in transport planning. That, too, is what we in the government take heights for when we broaden the mission. My predecessor began by broadening the national plan to include also planning for housing. We are now adding socio-economics, gender, climate objectives and regional policy. Basically, we can no longer regard every part of an infrastructure building as a single object – they are part of a community building and in a way to modernise Sweden and ensure that we meet the climate targets. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that I want us to include the perspective of equality and equality. If we are to reach climate targets, we cannot and must not end up in a situation where efforts are made only in big cities and where only people with good incomes are able to switch to electric cars or travel collectively. We must ensure that we have good opportunities for everyone across the country to do this. That is the perspective that is needed. Both men and women, with different commuting patterns and access to the labour market, both city and country and different social groups, must be able to feel that they are part of the transition we are facing. I am convinced that Jessica Thunander shares that target, but I think it is important that we help to bring the discussion to that end.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-743	Mr President, I would like to Thomas Morell has asked the Minister for Justice and Migration whether he intends to act in such a way that the Swedish Transport Agency's request for a change of law is dealt with promptly. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. We're going to have our ways in order. It is an important part of the government's work in the field of transport infrastructure. We've come a long way. Since the government took office in 2014, we have received a mobility package in place in the EU. An important part of the mobility package is sharper controls for recording when and where a truck has crossed a border and for locating loading and unloading operations. With the introduction of smart tachographs, this will happen automatically, which will significantly complicate the manipulation of tachographs. The government has also appointed a special investigator to carry out a review of confiscation rules in order to ensure that the legislation is effective, effective and modern. In addition, in August 2019 the Government commissioned a special investigator to review how the control activities of road traffic are conducted and to propose improvement measures, including organisational measures, for more people to comply with the rules in this area. As regards the Transport Agency's proposal, which aims, inter alia, to clarify the system of checks and penalties for the manipulation of tachographs, there are already a number of different laws that can be applied to the counterfeiting of tachograph diagrams and the manipulation of tachographs. In conclusion, I note that the government has taken several measures and initiatives to combat the manipulation of tachographs.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-748	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. Manipulation of tachographs and cheating in the haulage industry is a misery. I myself have stood on the road and checked the heavy traffic. I did that for 12 years. I am still in close contact with several of my old colleagues to discuss the situation. They are deeply appalled by the situation. They can take in a vehicle and find that the tachograph is tampered with, but the legislation then does not reach all the way to prosecute the haulage company and possibly the driver along the way. One of the latest examples stopped a car coming from Bulgaria. This was done in 2017. It was found that the tachograph was tampered with and seized, and that was how it was to be reported. There was a corporate fine of 150,000. However, the district court could never serve the claim, after which the case was closed. Then the police had to return the manipulated tachograph. I have never heard of anything like this – the return of a crime tool. What's in 165 is very clear. You can't manipulate. Equipment which may affect data collected in the tachograph must not be used. The Government sometimes says that he is happy to be technology-friendly, I think the word is, and that I am correspondingly hostile to technology. But what separates us is perhaps that I have the knowledge of how to manipulate and how easy it is to enter the system and extinguish information to hide that you have been driving around the clock without taking your rest. These systems are so refined today that it is not even possible to detect them if you plug into the tachograph. Even the manufacturer can't detect the manipulation. It's so refined today. It costs about $35,000 to install this in a truck. Then you just go. All the tachograph data looks great. You've had your rest. You don't drive any more than allowed. You have taken your break as it says in the regulations. But in fact, it is the same driver who sits and drives almost 24 hours a day. He puts his head in the pillow for a couple of hours at night when it's at its worst, and then it's up again. When I was still at the traffic police in Skara, we had some examples where we stopped drivers who ate little white pills to stay awake. This is the situation on the road, and it has not improved since I quit 2007. It's just gotten worse. I have contact with my old colleagues, and a while ago I got an email where a police officer writes that we have to do something before everyone finds out that cheating in Sweden is free. There's a great frustration that you can't prosecute. This is clearly stated in the legislation. That's the answer that's come from the department. But then it ends, because once you get to the point where you will prosecute the person who committed the crime, the toolbox is not in place. Then there can be mobility packages, legislations and ambitions stacked on each other. But it doesn't help if you don't have that last tool to prosecute the person who commits a crime. This needs the government to go in clearly and steer up to ensure that we have a control activity that can be extended, but also that we have legislation that will actually bring those who commit a crime to justice, so that you can not just laugh and move on.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-754	Mr President, I would like to I think I have said that I am an optimist in technology, and I can note that Thomas Morell may not always be. I also realize that I have a little different experience than being a traffic police officer in 2007. I can be equally frustrated at the fact that there were drivers with a lot of small white pills, to quote Thomas Morell, but I can also note that we have now given a mission that means that the police will have new tools to do not only alcohol controls but also screening tests in order to be able to intervene more clearly in the case of drug-affected drivers. What do I want to say about this? Well, we're acting. Since 2014, when we had a change of government, we have introduced classing, ordering responsibility and a change of sanctions. In other words, instead of sending a letter to a haulage company in Romania – which they do not respond to, which means that a fine cannot be imposed – direct charges can already be levied on the spot. Otherwise, you can lock the vehicle to the road. We have completely different tools now. Don't get me wrong. I am very keen that we develop more tools to create order in professional traffic. That is why we have now introduced a number of different instruments. That is why we have made sure to change the regulatory framework as regards the exchange of sanctions and the charges to be imposed in the event of a breach of the rules. That is why, at European level, we have negotiated a mobility package that makes it, among other things, posting from day one. It is the control of cabotage or combined traffic on the road section. That is why we in the mobility package are now making sure to get smart tachographs. That is why, not least, we have an investigation into further exchange of penalties, but also more effective checks on professional traffic. We note that the number of checks on driving and rest periods has increased. More cabotage controls are being carried out. In addition, we gave extra earmarked resources to the police to make these efforts. What makes the difference is that we now, and also the previous parliamentary term, have a social democratic-led government that is actively making efforts, unlike before then. At the time, the sole line was that we did not want to do anything because the important thing was that we had low transport costs and free movement. I know that Thomas Morell finds this a difficult question. But the Swedish Democrats Thomas Morell still votes for and represents is a party that says that they want Ulf Kristersson as Prime Minister. It is the same Ulf Kristersson who sat in the government that for long years did nothing to curb fraud in the transport sector, to create order or to ensure that we find common European rules in this area. This also places a responsibility on the Swedish democrats for what political option they actually advocate. I am convinced that we can tackle fraud in the transport sector. I am not only a technology optimist, but I am also optimistic that we can have more and more effective controls on the way. With smart tachographs, we can also curb a great deal of the cheating that exists. Then organised and financial crime will always find new loopholes and new paths. Let us be there and constantly hunt, constantly check and ensure that we can create the right conditions of competition for Swedish haulage industry with good working conditions for those working in the transport sector. This means good opportunities for car inspectors, traffic police or how the professions will now be defined if we get a professional traffic inspection that can ensure that we get even more checks both on the road but also through registers. That is how we work to ensure a healthy and good transport sector.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-764	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. On October 10, 2010, I arranged a meeting in Skövde. Sten Bergheden from the Moderates and Monica Green from the Social Democrats were there. We had even borrowed some trucks so that they could see how the digital tachograph works, this wonder of technology that would prevent all cheating according to those who were proponents. Since then there has been a long discussion and many debates. We have had tours for politicians in all variants to show how cheating eats its way into Swedish transport industry. It is primarily foreign actors who do so. But you shouldn't just say it's foreign. There are also Swedish actors hiding behind foreign number plates, i.e. vehicles that are falsely signposted. Then they'll fly under the radar. You can't get to them, and you can't prosecute them. As long as they disappear beyond the borders of the country, the coast is clear. This has become a huge worry. Confidence in the digital tachograph was almost laughable for a period of time. It started so easily by taking an old car speaker and putting it on the transducer. Then the tachograph fell asleep, and then it was just to leave. It soon discovered the police when there were magnets hanging here and there. Instead, they connected themselves to the system. On the other hand, the police could measure. Through a diagnostic socket in the cab, they saw that there was an abnormally high voltage on the sensor. Then the positions were further moved in the criminal activity. Now you connect in a way that makes it impossible to measure up and see and understand that it is manipulated. This is what is so important to understand both for the government and for others to make decisions. If you rely on the digital tachograph, you are completely at the side of it. You can't get to the problem. What is important in this context is that you have control along the way with good officials who can make an assessment. Is it reasonable that the vehicle has moved from there to there in the time specified? The cargo that's on the cargo, where did it get in? What position will it go to and so on? It's about creating a picture of how the transport is done before you've even talked to the driver. Then you look at tachograph data and you put the puzzle. Those who work on the road today are not many. There's a few of them. They are located in Helsingborg, Västerås and Sundsvall, and then we have a gang in Eskilstuna. It is the sharpest control officers that the police have today when they are out controlling. They say it's like fishing in an aquarium. They can go out on the road, stop and pick up, and they find fault right away. What if we could get a control operation that really puts its foot down and marks out for those who engage in criminal activity on our roads? It has created a prerequisite for criminal networks to have a structure in the logistics system where they can manage their internal transport. This has happened when the traffic police have been dismantled. You live in the belief that a digital tachograph will solve all the worries for you. Instead, it has created a free marketplace for criminals. It's time to make a change. It is time to equip control activities and let go of the belief that the digital so-called smart tachograph solves the problems. It won't. It's just creating new ones.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-774	Mr President, I would like to I note that Thomas Morell avoids the connection and connection with the Moderates and the fact that during his time a moderate government did nothing. Nevertheless, that is the option that Thomas Morell recommends if it were to be a choice now. I believe that Thomas Morell's party leader has said that he is prepared to take every opportunity to change government. Will a government such as the Swedish Democrats actively support be the one that is pushing the question that it should be the nicest conditions for drivers on our roads? Will such a government make sure to push questions about the mobility package and posting from day one so that there is no unfair competition with low wages vis-à-vis Swedish transport workers? So far we have not seen any such signs from the parties with which the Swedish Democrats say they want to support and cooperate. When it comes to technology, there are new technologies that mean that we increase the conditions for being able to follow the goods and the vehicle. We have a regulatory framework in place that I have been negotiating in the EU at night between 3 and 4 December. This means that we can not least equip the vehicle in a way that we follow it. Drivers will have the obligation to return and even the vehicle will return to their home country. In this way, with new technologies, we can create new control opportunities. We have also added the investigation to all the efforts we have made to have more effective control of professional traffic. Perhaps I should nevertheless take this opportunity to ask Thomas Morell if the Swedish Democrats still have any idea of the need for a comprehensive form of organisation in terms of the control of professional traffic. Is a traffic inspection needed in Sweden, Thomas Morell?
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-780	Mr President, I would like to I will answer that question straight away. The answer is yes. I have also written a motion on this. We need to have sharp personnel on the road to such an extent that it will be a great risk of detection to commit crimes on the road. We need to get things together. The Government does not have to be in the least worried. Whoever it is that will be Prime Minister's next election, and if I have the confidence to be a Member of Parliament, I will push this issue. I will put that question before me until we have a solution. It's as simple as that. Yes, there's a difference between working at the traffic police in 2007 and doing so today. But the e-mail I received is dated November 17th at 16.22. The situation is exactly the same now as it was then, but the scope is much greater. They are frustrated, my old colleagues, not to get at those who put in systems to cheat. It beats away the bones of the serious haulage industry. We have what you might call modern slavery on our roads, where you literally drive the lives out of people. That's not good enough. We need to make a change. When I was in traffic, we got in a driver who fell asleep talking to him. It was not because we were so fabulously boring to talk to, but because he had been driving for 55 hours without approved rest. Everyone understands that when you come in and get seated and it stops, you fall asleep. He had arrangements in the cabin where he made his needs while driving. This was 2007. It's no better today. There has to be a change.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-786	Mr President, I would like to Thomas Morell talks about how Sten Bergheden, Monica Green and he had a discussion like this in 2007. I can imagine that all three were frustrated by the crime that existed in the transport sector and felt that the police needed new tools and that something needed to be done to improve the conditions in the transport sector. What then happened was that the bourgeois government that we had then in all its years, until 2014, did nothing. Then came clapping, sanctioning fees, ordering responsibility, equal requirements for winter tyres so that you do not have lower requirements for foreign vehicles and the mobility package. The list is long on the efforts now being made to create order and order in the transport sector with earmarked resources for the police to carry out cabotage controls, with an investigation into a possible labour inspection and with better tools for police action. We're acting. We are creating hope and confidence in the future in a haulage industry that has otherwise been pushed by unfair competition from not least Eastern European hauliers with poor wages and working conditions and vehicles that are often of poor quality. Now we are making demands on winter tyres already at the limit of heavy vehicles, regardless of which country they come from. Now that we are implementing the mobility package, it is posting that applies from day one for both cabotage and combined transport on the road, that is, it is the conditions that apply to those who work in the transport sector even if they come from another country. This is celebrated by the trade union movement. This is celebrated by the haulage industry. This is what we are doing under this government, our social democratic government, together with the Green Party and with the support of a number of other parties. I'm proud of that.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-792	Mr President, I would like to Mr Rothenberg has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the TTIP negotiations, that is, the free trade negotiations, between the EU and the United States, are resumed from the Swedish side. The US is an important partner for Sweden, and the bilateral relationship is of great importance to our economy. American companies with operations in Sweden create around 70 000 jobs here, and Swedish companies in turn create around 365 000 jobs in the United States. It is, of course, high priority of the government to maintain and further develop good trade relations with the US within the framework of a free, sustainable and fair trade policy. Within the EU, we are working to ensure that the EU has a positive and constructive approach to the US. We support proposals to deepen and broaden the trade relationship wherever possible. The response of the EU and the Member States to the outcome of the US presidential elections has been positive. I personally, of course, look forward very much to starting new cooperation with my counterparts in the new administration, and it would be gratifying if the trade relationship could be deepened. I do not rule out the fact that talks will be held on the TTIP and the design of a future trade agreement. At the same time, it is important to be realistic. The incoming President, Joe Biden, has made it clear that negotiations on broad FTAs initially will not be at the top of the administration's political agenda. A proposal from the EU to resume TTIP negotiations at this stage is therefore unlikely to land correctly with the incoming administration. In addition, there have been differences of opinion within the EU on elements of the TTIP as it stood at the time. My colleagues in the European Union and I will, of course, have talks with the United States on how best to deepen our trade policy cooperation. The EU and the US are each other's main trading partners. If the world's two largest market-liberal economies are there good reasons to make progress on the trade side, not least in view of the economically difficult period we are currently going through, but also with reference to geopolitical circumstances and challenges. During the FAC h share, i.e. the meeting with EU trade ministers, on 9 November this year, I stressed the importance of relaunching the transatlantic trade relationship with a new positive agenda. There is broad support for this among EU trade ministers. Joint efforts are needed to promote bilateral trade, resolve bilateral trade disputes, co-operation on trade and technology issues and reform and strengthen the World Trade Organisation (WTO). These proposals are also covered by the joint communication on a new transatlantic agenda published by the European Commission and the European External Action Service (EEAS) on 2 December. The government will work to ensure that the EU has a good trade relationship with the US and in the best way create good conditions for the Swedish economy, Swedish companies and Swedish jobs.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-799	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Commerce, for your answer. Yes, a new President of the United States will take office, which we look forward to. In many ways, Joe Biden's election victory will change America's international politics. Although we do not know how the new line will be designed in detail, there is good reason to be hopeful. In the tracks of covid-19, the bnp has fallen in all countries of the world except China, and world trade has developed at a calmer pace. Many countries within the EU are struggling with their own economies and are forced to increase indebtedness. To get out of this precarious situation, it is not possible to conclude further. Instead, transparency is needed and, above all, the two largest economies in the world, the European Union and the United States, must form stronger links between themselves. It is therefore time to pick it up and resume negotiations on the free trade agreement, as when we negotiated it was called TTIP. But we're gonna do it based on an updated agenda. TTIP was controversial in many places, especially the further out on the left side one came. There would certainly be good use in making a round with a blank sheet, taking the good with you from the old TTIP proposal and the negotiations on it and complementing it with an updated agenda that is aligned with 2021. For Sweden and Europe, the opportunities for stronger transatlantic cooperation should benefit from the return of the US to a president who recognises the importance of multilateral and rule-based cooperation. However, this does not mean that trade relations between the EU and the US will automatically improve, especially in view of the protectionist currents that have grown stronger and stronger during the Coronap era. Nor should we forget that, even within the democratic party in the United States, there are strong features of protectionism. However, those who advocate for more solitude and protectionism draw completely the wrong conclusions from the current crisis. If this approach is to set the agenda, we risk embarking on a path away from what has been so successful for Sweden and the world economy as a whole. On the basis of the current world situation, the need for free-trade voices is greater than for a very long time. There, Sweden has an important role to play, and we should push for the EU to initiate reopened free trade negotiations with the United States. As the Minister for Trade replied, this will not be at the top of the agenda for a new American President. But it is all the more important that we on the European side push and try to put the issue as high as possible on the forthcoming agenda. The United States is now going to throw off a period of less and a lack of international cooperation, and it is not we who should wait for their new agenda to be able to eventually address what is important. It is also important to have an idea of what you want to do. My question to the Minister for Trade was: what measures do the Government intend to take to resume negotiations on the free trade agreement? I did not get any concrete answers to this; perhaps they will come later in the debate. I think it is important that we start looking at what needs to be done in practical action. What initiatives does the Minister of Commerce think we should start with when the time is right?
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-809	Madam President, I would like For me, as Sweden's Minister for Trade, it is absolutely obvious that the EU should deepen its trade relationship with the US where this is possible. This must be emphasised: why is it so important? The EU and the US are each other's main trading partners. I have figures in front of me here, which are important to highlight in this context in order to really underline that I share the picture of the importance of this issue. Together, we make up more than 30% of world trade. 60% of all global direct investment takes place between these two areas. The EU-US trade in goods was worth EUR 616 billion in 2019, which is three and a half times the EU's annual budget. So there are enormous values that are not only at stake, but that we can also use in a free trade agreement. We can also develop the relationship in a fantastic way if we get to the point where we can start negotiating a free trade agreement again. If we go back to Sweden and the bilateral relationship between Sweden and the United States, the figures are actually quite impressive, given that Sweden is still such a small economy compared to many others. Sweden is the 13th largest investor in the United States. In this respect, we are ahead of major economies such as China, South Korea, Brazil and others. With this, I would really like to emphasise how important I, as Swedish Minister for Trade, consider this issue to be. As Mr Rothenberg mentions, continued openness, close dialogue and strong trade policy cooperation between the EU and the US will be one of the most priority issues in the coming years. In order to maintain this, we in Sweden, which stands for this positive, free trade-friendly line, will have to be a very strong voice also within the framework of the European Union. Sweden's role in this matter is important and will perhaps be even more important in the future. We now have quite a few like-minded countries in the EU, who also want to pursue this agenda – but not all of them. On the other hand, as I have pointed out earlier, it is not at this stage the time for concrete negotiations on the TTIP free trade agreement. Firstly, the Commission needs to be granted a new negotiating mandate by EU Member States, for the previous mandate for TTIP expired in April 2019. This requires agreement among the EU Member States on this issue. That is not to say that Sweden should not push the issue, but we must be realistic – we must have a European unity on this. This is not obvious at the moment. The free trade agreement negotiated by the EU with Mexico has encountered problems in the Belgian Parliament, and the Mercosur agreement has been voted down in the Netherlands. A TTIP agreement might not directly receive a positive response in all EU Member States. So we need to be realistic, but at the same time we are already starting to rake for this. I think it is very important to act wisely here and not move too quickly. But we must have a clear, concrete agenda ahead of us – and I very much agree with Mr Rothenberg on this. The aim should, of course, be for us to have a free trade agreement in the end. We should not sit in the back seat and wait for this, but Sweden should be a driving force. As Swedish Minister for Trade, I very much agree that a free trade agreement with the United States would be positive and important for the growth of both large economic regions. It would lower the costs for our companies and provide greater clarity and predictability for our business community, which is very important. Having said that, Mr Biden's attitude towards multilateral cooperation is very positive, but the new administration signals that the first thing to do is not to start negotiating new trade agreements. I think we need to wait in and push at the same time. This is therefore a balance, Madam President.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-818	Madam President, I would like That is indeed what the Minister for Trade says: this is not what will happen at the first White House government meeting after 20 January. But this must be on the agenda in the near foreseeable future. For there are many things in the world that are purely concrete – jobs, Swedish companies, increased trade in general – that we need to pay attention to. We see in the world that the expansionist and authoritarian forces are taking more and more space. We also see a China that in recent years has moved its positions forward on virtually all fronts. It's really only in bandy that you haven't moved out your positions. Through aggressive investments in strategically important social functions, China seeks to gain control of physical and digital infrastructure in countries far beyond its own territory. This tempts the EU and its Member States and has also rendered it more stringent legislation in Sweden and the EU. At the same time, the United States is on its own conducting a trade dispute with China, with very unclear results. As a stable representative of a non-state-led market economy, the EU and the US could jointly and wisely act as a counterweight to authoritarian economies, where China is by far the foremost representative. The best way to mark this common position would be to first re-establish the transatlantic axis, which seems increasingly urgent. It is from this perspective that I think it is extremely important that we soon get started with real discussions on what a future free trade agreement might look like. I think we should respect the criticism of the TTIP that existed before President Trump took office. This does not mean that I somehow think that the agreement was wrong in its construction. But it went wrong because so many reacted so strongly to it. That's why you need to take a look around here. I believe that our colleagues from other parties, who were much more vocal in their opposition to the free trade agreement, could very well land in a modified position. However, this modified approach must begin by having a common will and can see that a free trade agreement between the US and the EU could mean so much more for both parties in a wider context, for example, as I mentioned, in the global geopolitical situation, where China for both the EU and the US is a completely opposite party. Together, the EU and the US have 780 million inhabitants. The EU is the world's third largest national collection, larger than Indonesia but smaller than India. It is therefore extremely important that we arrive at this. I would like to ask the Minister for Trade what experience there is of the free trade negotiations that took place before the negotiations broke down in 2016 that we could benefit from. And what changes would we need to make in that arrangement?
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-825	Madam President, I would like We can start by looking at what happened in the previous negotiations and what lessons we can learn from it. In fact, the TTIP negotiations while they were going on were the subject of widespread criticism, particularly in the EU. There was also some criticism in Sweden, but it was a little more limited. However, it was significant from some quarters. The general criticism was not just about TTIP but was broader and actually opposed all kinds of modern trade agreements and globalisation in general; there were also such currents then, which were not just about the individual agreement. The somewhat more specific criticism of that particular agreement concerned a limited number of issues. It was a concern about the potential negative impact of the agreement on the environment, trade union rights and food standards, but also on democratic processes. The government would not have approved an agreement that would have meant a lowering of EU standards, a restriction of our consumer protection or a threat to democratic processes, but that kind of criticism existed during that period. Since the last round of negotiations took place almost five years ago, a great deal has happened, and quite a few new free trade agreements have been negotiated. I think we learned a lot from the TTIP process. We'll learn that lesson. We have improved – and perhaps need to be even better – in communicating the value of trade policy. It is about trade as a platform for bringing out values, environmentally friendly solutions, human rights and so on. At the same time, of course, we must look at the criticism that was made then and take it seriously. However, I am convinced that we have made some progress over the past five years, and we must use trade policy as a springboard for values other than those purely economic. We trade ministers and we who are responsible for these issues need to be better at that. I would also like to address what Mr Rothenberg mentioned about China. We largely agree: China's action today is challenging the international trading system. There is significant state interference in the Chinese economy. There is a lack of transparency. There are shortcomings in the protection of intellectual property rights. These challenges are also highlighted in the Government's letter to the Riksdag Work on issues related to China. The United States has tried to address a great many of these problems during the past term of office. In January this year, the United States and China agreed on the Phase 1 agreement, and then some of it has calmed down in the relationship between the United States and China, but it is still tense. I also think it is important in this case to point out that the EU shares to a large extent the USA's problem picture in relation to China. There we meet, as Mr Rothenberg points out. However, we have not always shared the methods, and there is also a great deal of EU-US relations that need to be relaxed before we can start discussing the next EU-US agreement to strengthen the transatlantic link. These are steel tolls, aluminium tolls and so on between the EU and the US, as well as the Airbus – Boeing conflict, which we have still not resolved. I do not want to talk about low-hanging fruits, but we need to dismantle these conflicts between the EU and the US and strengthen the transatlantic link. Of course, we want to look forward to a positive trade agenda with the United States. Let me also say that in the relationship with Europe – China there is also a lot of opportunities. It is a very important trading partner, and we must achieve that balance. We should point to the problems, but of course we also want to develop our trade and economic relations with China.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-835	Madam President, I would like I can only agree that Airbus and B oeing are probably as far from low-hanging fruits as you can get. But we really need a move. Once we get the vaccine in place and the world begins to return to order after Corona, perhaps not the same order as before but to order, we have a major task in the democratic, market economy and value-based western part of the world. We need to restore a great deal of growth. We need to create growth that is stronger than before in order to pay off the debt that many countries are now building up in their crisis management. There will be billions of billions to be paid back. It should not necessarily have to be done by future generations. No, not everyone is really in on starting free trade agreements. There were problems before. The Commission needs a new mandate. I think it is good that the Minister for Trade sees these problems. The big problem in the past was not really the acronym TTIP, but the USA – it was the combination of letters that most criticism turned against. We can never get away from that. We must aim for a content that is good enough in a future free trade agreement. Trade cooperation is needed after the Corona. There is also a need for joint action with China. The Western world and its values need to work together. This is where the good forces need to gather. It takes ambition. It will require subtlety. It will require will. I am prepared to give the government as much support as possible from moderate quarters to kick-start and push for free trade agreements between the two major powers of the European Union and the United States.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-841	Madam President, I would like It will be very important with the new administration in the United States to strengthen and build on transatlantic cooperation to also address the global challenges together, because they are even bigger now after the pandemic. We're gonna do this. The EU and the US should be equal partners. We have in part different instruments, skills and strengths, but together we can build something forward with the incoming administration. Joe Biden and his incoming government have certainly signalled the desire for dialogue. They want multilateral cooperation. This is very positive, and both the government and the European Union welcome this. On the trade side, I cannot stress enough that we want to broaden and deepen our relations with the United States. We need to get rid of what's bothering us. It's high-hanging fruit-- I agree-- but we have to take it down and deal with these issues, because they disrupt the relationship. This is something that must be on the agenda in the European Union too, of course. When the EU's trade ministers had their last meeting, it was just after the US elections had been completed and we had finally had a result. At that meeting, the trade ministers' joint reaction to the fact that dialogue could now be launched was very positive. I personally very much look forward to starting a new partnership with the new administration. We had good cooperation and a good dialogue with the Trade Representative even before, but I think the conditions are better now. We should also remember that Joe Biden has been very clear that the negotiation of broad free trade agreements will not be at the forefront. Let me conclude by quoting what he said in the New York Times this weekend, and I'm not going to enter any new trade agreement with anybody until we have made major investments here at home and in our workers. We need to look at their a genda but not back away to push for a new deal eventually.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-846	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I intend to commission the police to extend the taxi controls, for example through the regulatory letter. Furthermore, Thomas Morell has asked me whether I know whether the SEK 100 million received by the Police Authority, earmarked to curb unauthorised cabotage, have been used for the intended purpose, and whether I am taking any action. In view of the fact that both exchanges relate to the governance of the Police Authority's activities in the field of traffic, they are answered together. The Interpellant is well aware of the importance of the Politiska omstöverningar av förehandstrafik för att hålla växtväxt, sound competition in the industry and a good social situation for drivers. The controls are fundamental to the Politiska området's work to prevent, detect and investigate crimes. The Police Authority was given the task of further developing its work on inspections of cabotage transport and flying inspections of commercial vehicles in the regulation letter 2017 and ensuring that efforts in these areas are improved. The measures taken by the Authority in relation to these tasks shall be reported in the annual accounts until 2020. The requirement for reporting back includes reasoning on the effects of the measures that are deemed to have or are expected to result in. We are therefore awaiting a final report from the Police Authority on this, and I do not intend to anticipate it. The control of commercial traffic, including taxi services, is a priority. It should be safe to ride a taxi. The Minister for Infrastructure has said that the government will not hesitate to tighten up the legislation if necessary. In addition, the Government has chosen to review how the control activities of commercial road transport are conducted. A special investigator will propose measures to improve compliance with the relevant rules. In this case, too, I do not want to go ahead. However, I have high expectations, and I know that the investigation is in dialogue with the relevant authorities and stakeholder organisations, such as the Swedish Taxi Association. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the government will continue its hard work to combat crime in society and on our roads. In this context, it is crucial to have an accessible police force, a strong judiciary and effective legislation. Here the building of the Police Authority is a central part, and the government is carrying out a historic effort on the agency. By the end of June, we passed halfway to the target of 10,000 more police workers, and nearly 3,000 more police students are on their way out in the coming years. The allocation of resources is a matter for the Police Authority to decide on. Through its crime prevention and law enforcement work, the Agency also contributes to creating the conditions for competitively neutral professional traffic with fair conditions.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-851	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I'll start by talking about taxis. Driving a taxi should be safe. You should be able to get in a taxi in confidence that you get where you thought, and nothing should happen on the road more than being transferred. Kruxet is that we have seen that there are other players than the serious entrepreneurs, who are usually part of the Taxi Association. These are those who, among other things, do not report income to the Swedish Tax Agency. An investigation has been carried out to show that the error rate in their operations has increased to 63%. In the case of more than half the fact that transport does not comply with the rules. This is a market that has been given free rein, one might say, because the police control taxis very little. There was very little taxi in the controls at the time I was working out. It was difficult to prove whether the one who went on the ride was a black taxi or whether it was a nice transport. Here we need to review the legislation and tighten it up in such a way as to really get to the one who engages in black taxis. This is a misery for those who try to run a taxi business on fair terms. They get out of competition by those who are less accurate. They have false documents. They don't have real cab cards and so on. They do not pay taxes and charges and can keep prices lower. The taxi industry has suffered a double blow, you might say, in this situation. Customers have basically disappeared because of the pandemic. People don't travel as much as before. Medical transport and such things have also decreased dramatically during the pandemic. There are taxi companies that have lost more than 90% of their business. The small shard of work that remains for the serious entrepreneurs then pick other actors who do not have to do there. They don't behave. They don't pay taxes. They don't have permits and so on. They're going black. Not infrequently, people with a criminal record do this. I looked at it like a little bit on the Internet. I Googled on this with crimes. In connection with what is called black taxi, women are the main victims. Drivers appear to be taxi drivers, but in fact they have a completely different agenda. This is worrying for those who are going to taxi, because it is important to have confidence in taxis as a phenomenon. It is a concern for those who operate taxi services on fair terms, who pay taxes and charges and who pay the driver's salary. Resources must come in to support the serious industry. You can't believe this is going to work out by itself. There must be checks. You have to prosecute those who don't behave. We must ensure that taxes and charges are paid. There must be a change, and then serious companies must feel the support of society. They must feel that they also go in and take action against those who are constantly crawling under the legislation. First of all, you may not have to make huge changes in the law itself, but you have to get a tool so that you can use the legislation to get to those who cheat. That's got to be priority one. The police don't have the resources they need. It may be the time for the government to point this out more clearly in the regulation letter.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-861	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by agreeing with what Mr Morell began his speech with. It should be safe to ride a taxi. The serious players must be supported by society. We must combat the black taxi business that exists in Sweden. It is often more uncertain. I am not sure that everyone who takes black taxis is aware that they are buying driving by drivers who may not be licensed and that there may not be insurance. They pay for and support illegal activities. Drivers may not have training for the job, quite simply. There are also these aspects. I think it is important to inform people that there are risks and support criminal activities. However, as Mr Morell says, it is not simply to prove these crimes. That's a bit of the trick in this. If you are to access this via reconnaissance, for example, you have to get quite far in the reconnaissance. One must almost be able to show that the customer has paid, because often in this case the customer is not inclined to help the police in the investigation work. This means that there are very high demands on this type of investigation if you are going all the way in that part. I think it is important to try to find collaboration between different authorities, because it is as Morell says: The vast majority of people who run black taxis also violate other laws, not least tax laws. They don't pay taxes. They collect income in other ways. We've started working on this. We also have the entire investigation, which we do not need to comment now, about professional traffic and how control activities should be carried out. We are waiting for the investigation's proposal on how to streamline control activities in a different way. One can be a little disappointed that it has not happened any more. But there's one thing I'm a little hopeful about. Much of what has happened in black taxi operations is linked to the digital platforms – Uber or Bolt – where you buy services. At the moment, there is quite exciting EU work in the field of taxation, which I hope will continue. This concerns amendments to the Directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. It does not sound so sexy and exciting, but the proposal obliges operators of digital platforms that provide personal services between sellers and buyers to report the sellers and their income to the tax authorities. Thus platforms such as Uber and Bolt will be obliged to provide the tax authorities with information about both drivers and their revenues. The negotiations on the proposal are at their final stage. Sweden is very positive about this. The government supports this work, for this could prevent tax evasion, tax evasion and harmful tax competition. It is therefore an exciting proposal that could get to this issue from a slightly different direction. I wanted to tell you about it in the Chamber now. It is a proposal which Sweden supports and which could have a bearing on in the short term.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-869	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Now I have to keep talking about taxis. It was actually cabotage I was supposed to talk about now. It was exciting that the Government named the platforms. I avoided doing it myself, but now it's said. That is where we see how much cheating it is and withholding taxes and such things. It is a scourge for those who try to contribute to society by being fair and entrepreneurship under the conditions that apply. I look forward to this and really hope that it will lead somewhere. Then I'll change the subject and come to this with cabotage. Cabotage is a somewhat enigmatic word, but it means carrying out a temporary domestic transport in a host country. It is based on having a licence in their country of origin, wherever it is in Europe, and a Community licence. Then you have the right to carry out your transport throughout the Community. If a vehicle comes to Sweden with incoming goods, the goods must first be delivered in full. It's supposed to be empty in the truck. After that, you have the right to carry out three shipments within seven days. Then you go out again. It's turned into a wild west. You go and you go everywhere. You don't follow the rules at all. You try to hide how you got into Sweden, when you did it and such things. Sometimes reference is made to the combi directive. It has become very messy in the transport market because there has been no control to talk about. The government contributed 100 million to increase controls on cabotage. They were to be paid out at 25 million a year for four years. However, the police can only account for 2.6 million of this money, and there is a great difference. Where did the rest of the money go? I'm talking to old colleagues, and they said that yes, it was an education that about 400 people participated in. Not everyone was a cop. Some were investigators. Some of them were police officers who worked in the inner line of duty. It is well and good; when you get an errand, there is someone there who can accept it and finish it. But where did the rest of the money end up? Later, other trainings were taken in, for there was no money left in the means of education within the police. Then the training at ADR and that sort of thing went away. This is going to be very strange for me. If you get 100 million to train and carry out increased controls on cabotage, of which 2.6 million are used and then you cannot run the other training courses in the end because there is no money, then the money must have landed elsewhere. That's what I wanted to hear from the government: What in God's name happened here? If we had used all this 100 million spread over four years, we could have done much more. My old colleagues out there are doing a great job based on their numbers. Imagine what a result it would have been if we had had a few more! What happens when those who are here driving do not pay taxes and charges and do not comply with the rules is that the state loses tax revenue. People get out of work because someone else takes the job away from them. It would therefore be a double profit if controls were increased: tax revenues were to be collected from those who carry out transport, and people were to work and thus contribute to our society. That's why I'm a little curious if the Government knows where all this money went. At least they didn't end up where they were supposed to be.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-881	Madam President, I would like I mentioned in my interpellation response that the Police Authority should report this in the annual report for 2020. We expect them to report the mission no later than 22 February next year. Then we get the compilation. When we see how the police authorities report what they have done for the extra money and with the government mission they were given, I think perhaps this discussion will return. I have had several discussions with the current chief of police about his attitude on these issues. It is clear that he sees the importance of this type of crime, crime and controls. My picture is therefore that the Police Authority is working actively with traffic issues today. I can mention a few measures. A traffic strategy has been developed. From very low levels, controls have recently been increased, which is a good thing. All police officers work with other types of traffic controls, but sometimes traffic police also had to handle some of the other traffic controls. Now it is more clear that ordinary intervention police and others are out doing checks on ordinary traffic, which is positive because it increases road safety in general. The Police Authority has also developed several training packages in the form of inspection packages, international transport and so on. Many police officers and car inspectors have also been trained in IT systems, and this continues to develop, which is interesting. I do not know what Thomas Morell's experience is of this, but when both the order bot and the control of driving and rest times take place digitally, controls are facilitated, and the work can be done more efficiently over time. I think it is a development phase that we are in, but it is clear that it is also related to how we should look at the coherent control activities of several different authorities. I'm looking forward to the report from the police department. This is a priority for the government. We want order on the roads for road safety reasons. It is about the zero vision, where we have high demands in Sweden to move forward and bring down mortality on the roads. It is also a question of reducing crime and illegal activity, of ensuring that serious operators do not become outcompeted by less serious operators. By doing this, we are also increasing the social security at work of those serious entrepreneurs who comply with the rules and those who are employed in companies that are trying to do the right thing. This is an important issue, and I look forward to perhaps returning to the issue after 22 February when the Police Authority concludes its mission.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-888	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. How good – then we have something to look forward to on the spring side! Today there has been a great deal of discussion in this House about the criminality of professional traffic. It is important to highlight the problems faced by serious entrepreneurship and how criminals create the conditions and infiltrate the logistics system in the country so that they can carry out their own transport operations. It is about stolen goods, and arms, drugs, explosives and women used in prostitution are being smuggled in. This has not been widely known to the public. You don't understand how bad it is and how extensive the business is. It's kind of grown up because the police haven't had enough resources to face it. There are some brave souls out there, very good officials, who work hard and always get bites. They don't go home on a single day without a bag full of errands. They're doing an outstanding job, and we'll be grateful for that. What if they could have some more workmates? This would increase the safety of drivers, of hauliers who are engaged in serious business and of all the rest of us who are affected by other criminal activities in society. We must do everything we can to slow down and reverse this trend. It is for the benefit of society as a whole. I would like to take this opportunity to wish the Government a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. Hope that 2021 will be better than 2020, because it has not been anything to write home about. I would also like to thank the Bureau and wish you a Merry Christmas. You've had to put up with a lot of crime today, but that's how it is sometimes.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-895	Madam President, I would like I look forward to further interpellation debates at the end of February or at the beginning of March to discuss this important issue further. I would like to conclude by saying that I share very much of Thomas Morell's general view of the situation and the importance of working on these issues. I have to say that there was a naivety, a liberalisation ideology, a liberal thought that everything would only work out. It was both an EU legislation that ended up too wrong and that Sweden did not apply all the possibilities we had to regulate this activity to ensure that everyone also complies with the rules that exist. We have done a lot in areas that may intuitively not seem to play a big role in the industry. But when we say that there will be demands on winter tires, when we say that we can walk and when we say that you work with alcohol controls in a completely different way it affects the functioning of the industry. There will be more order on the roads, and that will benefit the serious players. There's more to do. We continue to have an important job to do in Brussels, and I think we are moving the positions there. We also have a job to do at home. The control activities are going up, and the picture I get from the chief police officer is that you have both started to increase the controls for some time and that you train and want to hire more inspectors. I believe and hope that we can continue the discussion in the future. Finally, I sincerely hope that 2021 will be a brighter year than 2020. It is not only dark out; it has also been a year marked by a lot of trouble. Hopefully the vaccine can brighten our lives a little at the beginning of next year. Thank you and a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year if we don't see each other before!
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-900	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson has asked me whether I see any reason for self-criticism about how I and the authorities I am responsible for have worked to build confidence among the citizens in the Swedish strategy to combat the pandemic and how I intend to act in the future to restore confidence in the ongoing fight against the pandemic. The Covid-19 pandemic and its consequences are unprecedented in modern times. However, the government has been prepared to take the necessary decisions to facilitate efforts to limit the spread of the new coronavirus and to counteract the effects of the spread of infection in society. The overall objective of the management of the virus is, and has been, to limit the spread of the virus in order to protect people's lives and health and to safeguard the health care capacity, while limiting the impact on social activities other than health care, reducing the impact on citizens and businesses and alleviating the concerns of the population. It has never been part of the strategy of achieving so-called flock immunity. The strategy for managing the new coronavirus is and has been that the measures taken should be based on knowledge and proven experience and that the right measures should be taken at the right time. In order to maintain the strategy, the measures taken are under continuous review. The government and the Government Office have followed the spread of the disease closely and have been in constant contact with the responsible authorities. However, there has been considerable uncertainty as to the development of the spread of infection. The work of the government and of me will be reviewed afterwards. On 26 June 2020, the Constitutional Committee agreed to focus the review of the government's management of the Corona crisis on how government power has been exercised from a broader constitutional perspective. On 30 June 2020, the Government appointed a Commission to evaluate the measures taken to deal with the outbreak of the virus causing the disease covid-19. The Commission will submit a first interim report on 15 December 2020. I choose not to pre-empt ongoing and forthcoming reviews, especially in the context of dealing with an ongoing crisis.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-904	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. The Covid-19 pandemic was difficult to predict and to handle. I believe that most people have very great respect for the tough working situation of the government, the authorities and, not least, care during the pandemic. At the same time, it is appalling how the pandemic has hit Sweden. We know that the Swedish strategy during the first wave of the pandemic resulted in significantly higher death rates in our country than in our neighbouring countries. In the last two weeks alone, over a thousand new deaths have been reported. Our neighbours are far from having the same development, and the same applies to a number of countries in northern Europe and the Baltic countries. During a crisis, it is crucial that governments and authorities enjoy the confidence of the population in the measures taken. Any restrictions and restrictions on people's freedom imposed by the government and its authorities must be seen as reasonable, logical and balanced. In this respect, we must avoid conflicting statements and recommendations or make cross-confident statements about the facts which are then forced to be withdrawn. Unfortunately, the Swedish pandemic response is lined with the opposite. Already at the start of the pandemic came cross-safe statements from the responsible authority that the infection would hardly reach either Europe or Sweden – this despite many international warnings to the contrary. The Swedish strategy was then distinguished by the fact that in every situation decisions were taken on measures only after other countries had already done so and that Sweden chose other ways than the outside world without being able to properly justify why for its own population. This concerned, for example, the issue of giving priority to flock immunity rather than stopping the spread of the disease. It concerned the rejection of oral protection as ineffective, late and inadequate testing activities as well as late and illogical decisions regarding restrictions on audiences and crowds. As regards the issue of flock immunity, the Government says that it has never been part of the strategy to achieve flock immunity, but it is contradicted by information in the media that has come across internal e-mails from the responsible authority that clearly shows that in any case it is the goal of the Authority to achieve flock immunity. It is extremely unfortunate if the government and its authorities have a different view of this. If people perceive government and government decisions on restrictions as illogical, contradictory and difficult to understand, there is a great risk that recommendations and advice will not be taken seriously. This, in turn, imposes even tougher restrictions and restrictions. Now we are there, that is, the spread of infection has increased dramatically, and the government has noted that people do not follow the advice and unfortunately do not always take the pandemic seriously. An increasing number of economists believe that shorter periods of total shutdown of society would have been better than the long-dated period in almost a year of restrictions and restrictions that hit hard on jobs, entrepreneurship and social economy and apparently without affecting the pandemic effectively. In April, the government was given the right, by means of a temporary emergency law, to take very strong measures to combat the pandemic, but that law was not used at all. The same minister who celebrated the law after the Riksdag's decision and said that it ensured rapid action and the influence of the Riksdag has then completely changed and said that the law was useless. Madam President, I would like The basis for crisis management in a society is clear and well-founded decisions that create public confidence. It is clear to me that Swedish behaviour during the pandemic has been characterised by the opposite far too often. The risk is that this has eroded trust and compliance with the advice and guidelines given by governments and authorities. Of course, I do not expect the Government to anticipate future reviews in the Commission and the Constitutional Committee of how the Government and the authorities have dealt with the pandemic, but I would nevertheless like to put two concrete questions to the Government. Why did the government not use the temporary law to take action against the pandemic? How does the government intend to act in the future to strengthen confidence in the Swedish pandemic response? Actually, right now, things are going the wrong way.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-915	Madam President, I would like I mentioned the objectives of the Swedish strategy in my interpellation response. They are the starting point for the Swedish strategy. There is no other strategy than the one I mentioned. The starting point is to reduce the spread of infection in order to protect people's lives and health and to safeguard health care capacity. This is the first part of the strategy. Then it is also a question of balancing so as to reduce the effects of the pandemic in society and mitigate the consequences for both companies and individuals. That is the strategy we have. I can see that the authorities have given some different answers during the pandemic, but that is because the state of knowledge has developed. It is also part of the work with an unknown virus that we learn more about throughout the development. We also see how the virus spreads in society. What do we learn from it? What new decisions should we make? Look at the effect of the first wave on care for the elderly! IVO has already reviewed it as part of its own mission. It will certainly continue to be discussed. We see obvious problems in how elderly care was prepared and organised and in relation to the regional health systems. There have been clear examples of how the system has not been able to protect the most vulnerable in society. We have drawn conclusions from this in order to be clear that there are things to do here and now, not least to train staff and give municipalities more resources. Then there is the question of testing the whole category of staff. Furthermore, the regions are now working in a completely different way to support with health care resources in relation to elderly care. In a pandemic, you have to learn during the journey. Although the Commission is going to carry out a review, I think it is too early to say that it is precisely the objectives of the strategy that differed between countries. On the other hand, it is clear that countries were affected differently by the pandemic at the beginning and thus got the spread of infection in different ways. This will certainly be discussed. What would have been done differently, and what can we learn from it? We must continue to discuss these issues. The specific question was why the temporary law has not been used. The formal answer is that if you were to use the temporary law, you might as well have submitted a proposal to the Riksdag. That was the time perspective of the legislation. It was difficult to make that law separately. Then you can submit a bill to the Riksdag with a proposal on a matter, and then you would not have had to use a temporary law. However, I have not experienced that there has been an opinion in the Swedish parliament or the Moderates that they want to shut down large parts of Swedish society with political decisions. I could be wrong in that part. I understand that there has been a great deal of commitment behind working with advice, recommendations and guidelines for businesses, for example that traders have to adapt their business and comply with certain requirements and restrictions. But we in Sweden have not chosen a shutdown strategy. It has not been proposed by the authorities, and it would be news to me if it is the position of the Moderates in this because I have not understood it before. However, the government has always been clear that we are not excluding anything. If we end up in a more serious situation than today, we must be able to decide on even tougher measures.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-924	Madam President, I would like I think we have a lot to think about with regard to the temporary law. If the law did not work, why did the government present it? They wanted the law, and they praised it when it was voted by the Riksdag. It was said that it really ensures that we can take the strength we need – and then it was stated that it was not possible. But it was the government that wrote the bill, so you didn't realize it before? It's really weird. I have not proposed any measures that should have been taken under the temporary law, but I simply ask the Government whether there were any measures that would have been desired but could not have been taken because of the temporary law. That would have been interesting to know. When it comes to the fact that the pandemic affected different countries differently at the beginning – yes, it was safe. But now we are in wave two, and you have had all summer to prepare for the second wave. In fact, it was already warned this spring that a new wave is likely to come in the autumn, and yet we are in the same situation again. I find that very strange. The goal of managing healthcare and so on is in all countries, but why do we in Sweden? Then you can't just blame this on the care of the elderly. According to the latest figures I have seen, approximately one third of deaths are caused by people who have lived in retirement homes. Two thirds are people who have not lived in retirement homes, so it is a fairly large proportion of the deaths that exist outside that establishment. It also makes the whole thing very strange. There are many of the decisions that have been taken during this pandemic that people experience as contradictory. During the summer, for example, the spread of infection decreased sharply throughout Europe, and many countries eased their restrictions. However, Sweden did not do so, but we had continued a restraining order in the care of the elderly and severe restrictions on audiences at sporting and cultural events, for example. During the autumn, the government then imposed restrictions on restraining measures in the care of elderly people, despite the spread of the disease. They also wanted to ease audience restrictions and so on, at the same time as seeing figures that the pandemic is increasing. The matter of public gatherings has been very confusing. In the space of less than a month, Sweden went from the first maximum of 50 people in the audience to an opportunity to increase to 300, and then quickly reduce to a new, strict standard of 8 people. It will be very difficult for people to follow the tours and understand what is really going on. There are many such decisions that people find somewhat illogical, such as the decision to limit the audience in a large outdoor arena with 20,000 seats to 50 people while at the same time overcrowding in public transport and large department stores. No one understood how there could be less spread of infection by football fans sitting tightly packed in a pub and saw a game on big-screen television instead of sitting well spread out in an outdoor arena and watching the game without drinking. These are the things that make people think that there are conflicting signals, that it is not logical, that it strikes strangely in society and so on. I think the Government can also agree with me that many people must have seen this as very confusing, and so I come back to my question. There is a connection between people following guidelines, which are often well thought out by government and authorities, and feeling that the whole is connected. People must have confidence that there is a clear line in what is being done and that it does not feel contradictory and strange, because otherwise people will ignore the rules. Then you sit there and see that the spread of infection is increasing and people do not take it seriously. I don't think it's so strange that they don't, because it feels very contradictory and strange to many.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-932	Madam President, I would like There are absolute illogicalities that have affected Sweden because we have withdrawn a great deal from the prohibition regulation, which regulates general gatherings and public events. This has led to the inclusion of certain activities and the exclusion of others. When we used the regulation last spring to limit the number to 50, however, we saw that it had a normative role for other types of activity, which was not formally regulated by this. It was a signal from the authorities that there is a way of thinking that we in the population must embrace – that we should not have larger gatherings and thus contribute to increased spread of infection. The concrete answer to the question is therefore rather that the new pandemic law that is now being referred is a way of becoming more accurate in mitigation measures, which should not be based on the prohibition regulation but on the spread of infection. It is about us being able to work more towards different sectors than the law allows. On the other hand, one can say that the Swedish strategy is about that we do not believe that it is only rules and decisions in the Riksdag that lead to people changing their behaviour. People must think for themselves and understand that it is serious. Several countries have had completely different types of strategies, which have built very much on rules and prohibitions and gone very far – for example, France introduced a good curfew again this week – and there have been situations in which these countries have had their population against them. There have been great demonstrations; in the midst of a pandemic, people have almost violently demonstrated against how the rulers have limited their freedom and thus regulated their daily lives in a way that is not really understood as logical. You may have been allowed to walk 100 meters from your home, or you have been out for an hour if you practice. You can meet in the garden, but you can't meet in your own garden. There are illogicalities in this which are quite far-reaching. I therefore believe that it is important to continue to build on exactly what Jan Ericson says, namely that there is an understanding that the situation is serious and that we all bear a responsibility to change our behaviour. We did so last spring, and we are in the process of doing so and must continue to do so this autumn. Trust measurements are a little hard to value, aren't they? They also change over time. I don't remember if it was the SOM Institute that did the last big measurement of confidence that I saw, but it was at least this summer. The measurement is therefore a bit old, but then confidence in the Swedish Public Health Agency was somewhere around 81 per cent – and that in a pandemic where we had received a lot of criticism for how things had gone during the spring. I therefore see that the Swedish people have a fundamentally strong confidence that we will make political decisions, that those decisions will be based on expert authorities – the profession that is set to deal with this – and that we are trying to work together to reduce the spread of infection. This is not an attempt to polemise, but I would like to explain that different countries have chosen different strategies. When I look at the spread of infection now under the so-called second wave, I am sorry to say that almost all the countries hit hard by the first wave have also been hit hard by the second wave, regardless of what measures were taken. In addition, the countries have taken very different measures. It can also be seen that some countries that were not affected last time – like the Czech Republic, which even celebrated in the streets and squares that they had fought the pandemic – are now hit hard. So it is a tricky disease and a pandemic that strikes very hard, and we must constantly learn to fight the infection together.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-939	Madam President, I would like Of course, neither of us is an expert on pandemics, but we must simply try to trust what the expertise says. However, I can feel a little concerned sometimes when different experts have very different opinions. Total bans and curfews are clearly not a panacea, for some countries that have used them have not succeeded either. But I still believe that the Swedish strategy would have benefited if people had perceived the decisions as more logical and clear. Above all, it would have been a good thing if a responsible authority that does not know for sure had not gone out and said things that are absolutely certain that it is then forced to distance itself from. Of course, it is not the fault of the State Council that individual officials in the authorities do so, but unfortunately it still falls within the remit of the State Council. I think it damages confidence when you do that, and I find that unfortunate. This matter of trust is a tricky one. Of course, you can ask if they have confidence in authority here and so on, but if people now have such great confidence in an authority and what it says, why do they not follow the advice? It doesn't make any sense, I think. It is obvious to me that people may say that they have confidence but ignore what the authority says, and then they do not really have confidence. At the same time, I must give the Government some credit for the fact that the government seems to have changed its strategy. At the beginning of the pandemic, very much the authorities themselves held court in the media, and we never looked to the ministers and the prime minister. It has improved lately; the government has been seen more and more clearly than it was at the beginning of the pandemic. I think it would have been an advantage if, at the beginning of the pandemic, the Prime Minister had been given the important messages in the media, like the presidents or prime ministers of other countries, rather than just the officials of an authority. Now, however, we hope that this will be better and that the vaccine will do its part.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-944	Madam President, I would like I would like to start where the interpeller stopped, that is, a little hopeful about the vaccines that are now under way. It is very likely that the first will start to be approved in Europe, and that will lead to a different development. But it is, once again, a bit of the Swedish strategy to say that the pandemic is not over just because the first are starting to be vaccinated. It will take a while, so it's a matter of persevering and persevering and realizing that this autumn as well as both the colder climate and the indoor action we have in a different way than last spring means that we must now be even more careful to follow the advice and recommendations. There is in some way an increase in the spread of infection during this period. We also see that people actually change their behaviour; I think it is important to say that. When we look at movement data for transport, we see that they have gone down. When we look at how many people work from home, we see that this goes up. We even look at how many people visit the shopping malls; the number goes down. We have seen changes in behaviour since a number of weeks. It is now a matter of persevering and persevering in this and of making sure that people understand the rule of eight people, even if it is a matter of general gatherings, and that one should not socialize outside one's own family or the immediate circle. That's what breaks the spread of the disease and gets the infection down. This will be particularly challenging in relation to Christmas and New Year celebrations, which are often contexts where people travel around and socialize in larger groups, which we are not allowed to do. Finally, I can say that we have the same strategy as before. We have a very close dialogue with the authorities. The question is whether our authorities have really only been characterised by insecure statements. I think that they have often been criticised for saying, on the one hand, that, precisely because the state of knowledge has not been completely clear and because it changes over time. The fact that the authorities have reasoned and have not been so confident is, I believe, one of the reasons why they maintain a fairly high level of confidence despite this difficult pandemic.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-949	Madam President, I would like Marléne Lund Kopparklint has asked me how I intend to work in order for the government to comply with the decision taken by the Riksdag based on the announcement to abolish the requirement to renew arms permits every five years. Sten Bergheden has asked me when I and the government will remove the fixed-term licenses. According to the Arms Act, the authorisation of an individual to hold fully automatic or one-handed multi-ply weapons shall be limited to a maximum period of five years unless there are specific reasons against such a restriction. Parliament has twice announced to the government that the rules for possession of fully automatic and single-handed weapons should be simplified and that consideration should be given to abolishing the requirement for renewal of permits every five years. The current time-limit requirement for the authorisation of fully automatic and one-handed multi-shot weapons was introduced in 2000 and is based on the assessment that these weapons are particularly arduous and particularly dangerous (prop. 1999/ 2000:27 p. 34). The purpose of the temporary authorisation provision is to ensure continuous monitoring of compliance with the conditions for authorisation. Following the announcements by Parliament, the issue of abolishing the requirement for renewal of permits every five years has been considered in the recently submitted bill Implementation of the 2017 amending directive to the EU arms directive (prop. 2020/ 21:42). The Government notes that there is no reason at this stage to make a different assessment of the time-limit for the authorisation of fully automatic weapons and single-handed firearms for multiple shots than that made in 2000. Mortal gun violence in criminal settings has increased sharply in recent years, and it is essential to combat the use of particularly dangerous and theft-seeking firearms for criminal purposes. The government therefore remains committed to the assessment made in the past regarding the time-limit for the authorisation of fully automatic and one-handed multi-ply weapons. The government always takes announcements from the Riksdag very seriously but in this case it has not changed its mind. Finally, I would like to add that, at the government's initiative, reform work is under way by the Police Authority aimed, among other things, at shortening the processing times for arms cases. Last December, the agency was commissioned by the government to report on the measures taken to strengthen the handling of weapons permits. The Police Authority reported on the mission on 1 October this year with the report The Swedish Police Authority's work to increase and streamline the digital handling of weapons permits. The report shows that extensive digitisation and streamlining work is under way in relation to the Political Authority's arms licensing processes.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-956	Madam President, I would like Here we are again, Minister Damberg and I. It has turned out that we will probably do so more times in the future in view of the government's aggravating policy for law-abiding hunters, sportsmen, collectors and arms dealers. But it does not matter to me to stand here, because I will definitely continue to defend the rights and freedoms that this target group should have. It is a matter of course for me to combat the difficulties that the government is trying to impose on its hunters and sportsmen. I believe that instead of acting as the government does, we should encourage and facilitate Sweden's hunting and sporting activities. Madam President, I would like I honestly do not understand why Minister Damberg seems to have made it his task to degrade these groups time and again. Just over a year ago, the Riksdag voted through relief in the arms regulations in order to facilitate Sweden's law-abiding hunters and sportsmen. Among other things, Parliament was clear that the rules on possession of weapons should be simplified and that consideration should be given to abolishing the requirement for renewal of permits every five years. Madam President, I would like Time and again, we see examples of the government failing to comply with decisions made by the Riksdag. In a year and a half, the Parliament has declared 16 announcements aimed at facilitating hunting and sports shooting in Sweden. Nevertheless, the government continues to pursue an opposite line. Since the measure is getting rough, I would now like to ask the question: Does the government need help reading these announcements? There must be something wrong. The announcements are still a form of job description that the government should follow – otherwise the parliament's democratic work, which will govern our country, will be eroded. Madam President, I would like With reference to the government's unwillingness to follow a number of announcements, it is not difficult to conclude that the government has no ambition to facilitate the regulation and exercise of the country's hunters, sportsmen, arms dealers and collectors. Instead, the Government's ambition seems to be to make it more difficult for them. Madam President, I would like The Damberg Government claims that one-handed weapons are classified as particularly dangerous and that it is therefore required that we retain limited-term licences because these weapons are particularly arduous and particularly dangerous. That's when the government says they're probably in danger of going out with gang criminals. But this is something I and the Government have talked about before; it is wrong in the matter. How many legal weapons from Swedish licence holders actually end up in the hands of criminals every year? I have talked to the Government about this several times, Madam President, but it seems difficult to take in. Once again, the link between law-abiding hunters and sportsmen with licenses and the fact that the weapons would come out among gang criminals is very unclear. I will come back to this again; it is not the first time. Let us hope that this time we will be able to make it easier for the country's hunters and sportsmen once and for all.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-964	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer, although I was surprised by some of it! Madam President, I would like The Parliament has adopted 16 announcements relating to hunting and shooting weapons. It's about trying to make it easier for the country's hunters and shooters. One of the announcements concerns five-year licences. Although years have passed, the government has not implemented what the announcement has requested, but either it remains in the Minister's desk drawer or the government has returned proposals that go completely against the announcement. The oldest announcement we have at the moment is about a game agency. It was adopted five and a half years ago. We have not yet seen any kind of work in a direction that could lead us to establish a game agency in Sweden. Madam President, I would like I assume that the Minister and the Ministry are literate and with a fairly quick overview can still take on board what the Riksdag has decided on. The Minister and the Ministry should be well informed about Parliament's decisions. Therefore, we can probably rule out that the Minister is not sufficiently informed about the announcements and their meaning. We can then assume that the Minister has understood the announcements but still does not want to implement them. As the Minister himself says in his reply, Madam President, the Government always takes announcements from the Riksdag very seriously, but in this case it has not changed its mind. As I understand it, this means that the government, as I see it, has not intended to remove the five-year licences. Madam President, I would like It is therefore clear that the Minister has taken note of what Parliament wants but does not intend to do so, but he maintains his own old opinion in a minority. In doing so, the Minister clearly ignores what Parliament is actually making its decisions in a democratic spirit. It's not just a little serious, it's very serious. It is remarkable to hear this in a reply from the Minister and seems particularly casual. Madam President, I would like The Parliament's work is designed in such a way that the Riksdag commissions the Government to implement certain decisions and changes by announcement. The government has therefore been equipped with ministries and investigative resources to implement changes in laws and regulations. If this is not done as it is supposed to be, this should be reviewed. Madam President, I would like The Riksdag can also implement its own legislation, even if it is complicated and the Riksdag currently does not have those resources. The Riksdag also has tools to dismiss ministers and governments if they lack support in the Riksdag. An announcement is not a small recommendation that can be dribbled away by the government, but it should actually be followed by the Riksdag's decision. Madam President, I would like If the Riksdag decides to make a review of the withdrawal of limited-term licences, the Government cannot return with a bill that clearly states that it does not intend to do so. It is also a bill that is now being rejected in the Committee on Justice, which means that there is no support for this opinion in the Swedish Parliament. Today, the fixed-term licences charge the police with approximately 3 000 – 5 000 tickets per year. A shooter in Sweden who trains and competes in many shooting branches, perhaps five to ten, has perhaps five to ten equal or different weapons for his shooting. They're both training and competition weapons. There can often be two similar weapons in each category so that, if something happens in the competition, you still should be able to have a weapon and continue the competition. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to ask: does the Minister think that this is finished and that he will therefore not come back with a proposal to remove the five-year licences?
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-976	Madam President, I would like I tried to make it clear that the government has commissioned the Police Authority to facilitate and simplify the work on permit issues and that the Police Authority works very actively with it. It is an announcement that we have received from Parliament about it. In the bill to which reference was made here just recently, the government proposes that we also abolish the requirement for special permission for silencers, also in accordance with what the Riksdag has proposed. So it is not that we are not actively working on these issues. With regard to the announcement of limited-term licences, the Parliament, and I assume it was aware, wrote that changes that the Parliament establishes should be considered. The time-limit requirement for the authorisation of fully automatic and one-handed multi-shot weapons was introduced in 2000 and is based on an assessment that the weapons are particularly arduous or particularly dangerous. The terrorist attacks that have taken place in Europe in recent years have, in the vast majority of cases, used fully automatic and one-handed multi-shot weapons. The purpose of a temporary permit is to ensure that the conditions for the permit are met by continuous follow-up, for example that a sportsman needs the weapon because it is still active in a shooting association. I believe that the inconvenience that it entails for some gun holders to re-apply every five years may be balanced against the risks of not having the same control over the weapons, so that they are used in criminal contexts. It is important not to impair the control of the most dangerous weapons. At the same time, it is important that it is easy and convenient for our responsible arms owners, as we have in Sweden, to apply for a renewed permit and get it. It is a little surprising that the Moderates 20 years after the temporary permits were introduced, after the September 11 attacks, after the terrorist attack on Ut ø ya, after IS, after the terrorist attacks in Paris and after the deadly gun violence in criminal environments has increased sharply in recent years, are now so clearly prioritising to abolishing this particular system. I also note that the Police Authority has no demands on us to abolish this system. They want control of the particularly theft-seeking and particularly dangerous weapons, and I believe that these are nevertheless strong reasons. I will continue to work to increase the arms guard, to remove the requirements for silencers and to simplify and facilitate, not least through digitalisation and simpler processes, for the law-abiding arms owners we have in this country, so that they can easily practice both their sport and their pursuit in a correct way. But there are issues that need to be considered. We have seen a situation in Europe in recent years where this particular type of weapon has been used in the context of terrorism, but they are also quite common in criminal settlements around Sweden. That is why it is particularly important to control this type of weapon.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-986	Madam President, I would like Does the Government seriously mean that the weapons used in acts of terror come from law - abiding hunters and sportsmen, that is, persons who have weapons licences and are law - abiding? It is a question that should perhaps be considered when using such arguments. The argument that all illegal weapons have once been legal is widely used by opponents of arms. However, there are very few legal weapons of civilian origin used in crimes or, for that matter, stolen from law-abiding hunters, sportsmen, arms dealers or collectors. More specifically, it is one to two weapons with a Swedish gun license per year that are used for crimes. Now the statistics may have changed somewhat in view of the negligence of the government when six Glock pistols were stolen from the Government Office. That could be the case. But in total there are about 1.8 million legally owned weapons in the country. Anyone understands that it is not possible to see a connection between two legal weapons that are going astray and the hundreds of shootings, blasts, robberies and other crimes committed in Sweden every year. Surely Minister Damberg must understand that too. Or it is perhaps the case that the Government is having a bit of a hard time backing up in its argumentation, although it is a fact that the largest proportion of weapons that end up with criminals are smuggled into the Balkans. Madam President, I would like It is important to present some background history to understand how illogical this is. The Government stated three reasons of origin used for the introduction of fixed-term licences. Firstly, the declared ambition to keep down the number of firearms in society. Here you can think about whether law - abiding hunters and sportsmen were included even then. One might think so in view of the hunt that has now been going on for a long time. Secondly, the risk that weapons not frequently used are not taken care of and stored as well as those used actively. We've already talked about how illogical it actually is. Thirdly, it would be possible to keep a constant check on whether the gun holders are actively using their firearms and could thus be said to have a valid reason. All these arguments are currently unsustainable. Nevertheless, the Government stands by them. It is unbelievable, Madam President, and I think that the more than 600 000 arms owners around Sweden agree with me. There is no general ambition today to keep down the number of legal weapons, not even with the government. However, it has a strange formulation in its proposal which suggests that weapons with unlimited licences could be misused more easily. The 1998 letter was valid at the time. Unlike today, there was no requirement for gun cabinets. Since 2002, the same storage requirements have been applied to arms regardless of the frequency of their use, whether they are hunting rifles that do not have a fixed-term licence or a single-handed or fully automatic weapon that does. There are many questions about the argumentation of the Minister of State Damberg. I'd like him to take that to heart.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-998	Madam President, I would like I am upset when I hear the Minister again suspect Sweden's hunters and shooters by discussing the terrorist attacks in Europe. I can inform the Minister that no legal hunting and shooting weapon has been used in these terrorist acts. Of 1.8 million legal weapons, 1.4 are used per year in serious criminal activities. We will, of course, try to bring that figure down, but it is very low in relation to the number of weapons in the country. Madam President, I would like So does the Minister think that the announcement of five-year licences has been suspended and that he is not going to do anything more about it? Five-year licenses mean a complicated maneuver both for all our shooters around the country and for the police to administer. Madam President, I would like Sweden's legal hunters, shooters and gun owners are about 600 000, and the number of legal weapons, as Marléne said, is approximately 1.8 million. The hunters and shooters handle our game care and engage in training and competition, and they have strict requirements for training, fitness, testing and storage and are checked daily against criminal records. If you commit a crime or otherwise behave inappropriately, you lose your weapons and licenses. Gun owners are controlled digitally every 24 hours. What if the government had had the same control of crime in Sweden! Madam President, I would like As I said, few of the legal weapons, according to investigations about 1.4 weapons per year, are used in some form of serious crime. This figure may be rising slightly this year in view of the inadequate storage and control of their weapons by the Government Office. But I think we can get the numbers back down if the Government Office keeps a better eye on their weapons in the future. Madam President, I would like The Pandemin has meant that shooting training and shooting competitions have not been possible as planned. This means that many gun owners are now getting in touch with great concern because the pandemic can lead to a failure to get their weapons license renewed because you have not been able to train and compete as planned – this because of the Corona restrictions. This issue is now growing even further, with conventions of up to 8 people, making it even more difficult to carry out shooting training or competitions. Madam President, I would like It is good that we have restrictive measures to reduce the spread of infection, but the shooters' licence should not be compromised because they cannot train or compete. Madam President, I would like In other areas we have exemptions, for example in the case of the YKB for professional traffic so that the country will not be without drivers. Can the government consider a waiver for Sweden's shooters so that they don't have to worry about having their licenses withdrawn because of the pandemic? So one last question. How often do the minister and government meet the country's sportsmen and discuss solutions? It seems to me that there is a long way to go between these meetings, but perhaps this would be a good thing, not least for taking in more knowledge.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-1006	Madam President, I would like It is very important that the Police Authority works in a smart way in a pandemic. It is now possible to make exceptions and has also done so in different ways linked to its inspections in other ways. If the police authorities want support to be able to deal with this situation during the pandemic, we are welcome to come back to us. I don't have a problem with that. It is not that we are looking forward to the pandemic making a strange mess of things for people or associations. But it is the Police Authority that owns this issue. However, I want to be incredibly clear that the Police Authority does not in any way think that it should reduce the control of the most theft and dangerous weapons in Sweden. It is not a question of distrusting law-abiding sportsmen or hunters. It is a question of us as a society having extra control over the types of weapons that can easily come to criminal use if they are stolen. There have been a number of terrible acts in Sweden. For example, Peter Mang had a license for the gun he used in his horrendous crimes. I am personally rather emotionally affected by the worst act of terror in the Nordic countries. Anders Behring Breivik had permission for both the Ruger Mini ‐ 14 for hunting and the Glock 34 for scorers he used on Utøya. I am not saying this because I believe that many people do so, but we must realise that we now have a period of terrorist attacks in Europe when it is common for this type of weapon to be used. I therefore believe that consideration should be given to how to pursue certain issues and to the order of priorities. I listen a lot to the Police Department on these issues. But I also choose to put pressure on the Police Authority to facilitate, simplify and speed up proceedings. It should be digitized so that it becomes easy to do right and goes quickly. I choose to prioritise the silencer issue because I know that this issue has long been important for not least the hunters. I would also like to make further progress on the issue of arms wardrobes, which is, of course, linked to the legislation on weapons warehouses. I understand, however, that Parliament does not seem to want to support the bill that is about implementing this European directive, even though the Moderates in the European Parliament voted in favour of it. It is binding on Sweden, and we would have had to introduce these regulations for large arms warehouses already in the past. However, it has been impossible to get there, and now we will see how Parliament votes. I have little interest in this particular issue, but Sweden must implement the directives that exist at European level – also in solidarity with the countries that have suffered from terrorism. This applies not least to France, which was hit hard five years ago and therefore initiated the call for tougher regulations for large arms warehouses throughout Europe. Sweden cannot opt out of this.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-1016	Madam President, I would like I would like Minister Damberg also to listen to hunters and sportsmen in shaping this policy. Let me get back to what I was into earlier. Today, the suitability of arms licence holders is assessed 24 hours a day by means of an automatic record-keeping system. This does not happen only when a person applies for a licence. That a person who has a weapon does not use it all the time is hardly a problem. Let me take, for example, a person who has a hunter's license and has obtained a hunting rifle but does not go out hunting in maybe six years or a person who has suffered a sports injury and is stopping his training. Madam President, I would like I myself suffered this time limit when I injured my hand while I was a sportsman and during the convalescence could not train and compete according to order. This meant that I had to dispose of my competitive weapons, with financial loss as a result. It is not reasonable for anyone, but it is even worse for those who have invested large amounts of money in personal sporting weapons. As long as the weapons are in the gun cabinet, they do not pose a security risk – neither the moose bouncer, for which the owner does not need to renew the license, nor the racing gun that is next door, which the owner must, however, renew the license for every five years. Where's the logic in all this? I can tell you that, Madam President: there is no logic in this. Finally, Madam President, we have now put forward several arguments for how illogical and cumbersome the fixed-term licences actually are. I hope the government can be a little self-critical. In fact, it is not dangerous to redo and do the right thing. It's more of a force. The Damberg Government referred to particularly dangerous weapons, and I would like to stress that only a few weeks ago the report was adopted in the Committee on Justice. It showed that the regulation on particularly dangerous weapons is not intended in any way to affect these licensing tests or other licensing procedures. It is also an important aspect that I hope the Government will take into account when pushing forward politics as he does. Once again, the Government is going into the terrorist acts on which everyone can agree are terrible, and once again I would like to ask the question: have there consistently been legal weapons used in these terrorist acts? That is the crux of this, and that is the argument used by the Government when we are conducting this debate. Fighting gang crime effectively is not done by chasing law-abiding hunters and sportsmen and making their practice more difficult, for it is not their legal weapons that end up in the hands of gang criminals. There are other measures to be taken, and we Moderates have presented a number of examples and proposals on how to combat it. I appeal to the Government: Try to separate things! With these words, Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to wish all the warmers, of course, but also those who are present in this House, the President with his good officials and also Minister Damberg a really happy Christmas and a happy new year.
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-1026	Madam President, I would like I can start with the reason for the arms directive. Again: One of the reasons is that the government is constantly trying to over-implement it. Efforts are being made to regulate the possession of magazines instead of regulating the use of magazines, which the EU directive actually only requires. A small tip for the minister may be to look at how Switzerland has solved the situation. They have implemented this and submitted their amending directive. With regard to the second part, Madam President, I think it is good that the Minister is looking at silencers. I think we can find a good solution for that, also for the weapons closet. It is also good to look at the issue of a game agency, which has now been in the department for five and a half years without having been corrected in any way. I am upset by the argument about terrorists all the time and the comparison with Swedish shooters and hunters. I can give the Minister a statement, and that discussion can continue. Peter Mangs is often raised in the examples from the minister and government, but this is a very bad example given that the shooting association in Malmö had for a long time been telling the police that they did not recommend that the person should have their weapons licenses renewed because they discovered things that were not right in terms of handling. Yet the police gave him a gun license, but why it was that way in the system we can probably look over ourselves. Like Mr Marléne, I would like to take this opportunity to wish a truly Merry Christmas to all the citizens, the President, the President's Office and the Minister. Keep your distance so we get rid of the corona, and vaccinate you on time!
i-8a6cb969161f2fa7-1031	Madam President, I would like Thank you, the interpellants, for both the Christmas greeting and the debate! There are several issues on which we seem to agree. We seem to agree to make it easier for law-abiding sportsmen and hunters. Queues need to be shortened, the licensing process needs to be simplified, we need to ensure that the authorisation requirement for silencers is abolished and we need to extend the arms curtain. I think we are very much in agreement on all this. I walk in the light here and look at what we agree on. We also agree on other measures. Only on 1 December, when we got through and the Parliament voted with broad agreement to tighten up arms legislation so that more crimes are considered to be particularly serious, that arms crimes that occur in criminal environments provide longer prison sentences and that there is a new smuggling crime that provides higher penalties but also gives customs new powers to work with secret coercive measures to get to grips with the smuggling of weapons, not least from the Western Balkans to Sweden. Thus, in December, we have received new legislation in place which I hope will give law enforcement authorities even better opportunities to access the illegal weapons that still plague Sweden. I look forward to working together with the Riksdag in these important parts to access both terrorism and gang crime and to continue to make it easier for hunters and sportsmen in the legal, serious business that we have in Sweden. With this I wish everyone Merry Christmas and Happy New Year.
