i-73bb79f107d00904-2	Madam President, I would like Roger Hedlund has asked me if the government intends to move forward with proposals for changes in the purchase of real estate properties and to create a more secure land leasehold system. First of all, I would like to say that the Council is pursuing an active housing policy. Since the government took office in 2014, housing construction has increased sharply. In 2019, 90 per cent more dwellings were completed than in 2014. This is due, among other things, to the government's investment aid. Since the start of the aid, more than SEK 12.6 billion has been granted in support of the construction of more than 37 000 homes. This year alone, aid has been granted to date of around 3.7 billion for nearly 10 000 homes. Of these, just over three quarters have been rental dwellings and just under one quarter have been residential apartments for students. But much else is also going on. In May, the Government appointed an investigation aimed, among other things, at creating the conditions for a socially sustainable housing supply. The investigator shall, inter alia, analyse how land owned by the public and suitable for housing construction can be used to meet the needs of the housing market. During the spring, the government has also held construction talks with the industry, including to discuss the issue of how more people will enter the housing market. Santa Claus is a special right of use for immovable property, which is supposed to run for a very long time. The system is that the landowner pays a fee, a property payment, to the property owner. The yield is usually determined on the basis of the value of the land. The idea is that the property owner, who is usually a municipality, will get part of a possible increase in land value. There have been some problems with the site-right system. The current rules have been reviewed several times. One problem that has been noted is that the decline can increase significantly as it only changes every ten years. It can be difficult to predict the size of the new departure. In 2012, the land lease and lease investigation submitted an interim report proposing changes to the rules. However, the investigation's proposals received criticism during the consultation process. The critics argue that the proposal does not provide sufficient protection against sharp increases in pay and may lead to significant loss of revenue for some municipalities. For example, the report states that Västerås Municipality would receive a reduction of approximately SEK 14 million per year in income from small building leases if the proposal was implemented. For Luleå and Eskilstuna municipalities, the annual income loss was estimated to be approximately SEK 5 million each. The commission also included taking a position on and proposing rules on the right to free purchase, i.e. a right to purchase the property against the property owner's will. Such a scheme would constitute a restriction of the municipal self-government where the property owner is a municipality. The investigation concluded that the reasons for a right to free purchase are not sufficient to justify this. Most of the consultation bodies, including the municipalities that have spoken in that part, as well as the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, agreed with the assessment that a right to free purchase should not be introduced. What has emerged from the investigation and during the consultation process makes it clear that the questions about the leasehold system are very complex and involve several conflicting interests. Within the Government Office, work is under way on the questions about the land lease system. The Government Office has held meetings on several occasions with interested parties on the continuation of the work. Currently, work focuses on analysing the problem picture and finding the most appropriate way forward.
i-JRSXhThVvKVq51XnyWYo4M	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Morgan Johansson, for your answer to my interpellation! Morgan Johansson begins by giving me a pull about the increased housing construction. I would like to describe the increase in housing construction myself as something that is rather due to the upswing and boom of the stock market and to the fact that the alternatives in homelessness Sweden is to buy and rent in new production. Migration has also greatly halted migration chains. Combined with a housing guarantee for newly arrived migrants implemented by the Government with the Housing Act, removal effects have been created for Swedish citizens on the housing market. The government's response to increasing housing construction has rather been to propose the introduction of market rents, which of course would have major consequences in a Sweden with a large housing shortage. At the same time, the increase in housing construction, which the Minister refers to in his reply, has been eaten up by the increased population through high migration volumes to Sweden. In other words, the housing shortage is as great as when the government took office. The fact that housing construction has increased has not created any better conditions for Swedish citizens in the housing market. For a very long time, Boverket has given figures that 64 000 homes need to be built annually over a ten-year period in order to approach some form of balance in the housing market. We see in the projections for 2021 that the number of homes started is 42 500. So you don't even get close to any kind of balance based on the figures that Boverket reports. In the reply, the Minister refers to the investment aid. It is hardly something that the Swedish democrats see could solve the situation. This is about 6 000 built dwellings per year – dwellings that probably still had been built in some form without the support. So it is something that really has no effect. My interpellation, however, was about the land lease system. There are 40,000 small houses in Sweden that have been built on plots. Dagens Nyheter recently presented a report on large fee increases for a tenant-owners' association in Masthugget in Gothenburg. There we are talking about an increase corresponding to 42% of the association's annual fees. For a single right-of-occupancy apartment, the fee increase would be SEK 1,600 per month. These are severe consequences for those who have land leaseholds and who are forced to pay quite heavily for the way in which the system is constructed today. The municipalities count differently, and the system creates an unpredictability for those who have a leasehold. High increases as the market value rises have a major impact on those living on the site. Households' housing costs are a large part of the household economy, where you need to have security over time. That is also why the Swedish Democrats and I refer to this interpellation today. I want to know how this work is going. Larry Söder, the Christian Democrats, stood here a year ago asking the same question and got the same answer from the Minister. I would like to know when you will move forward and not just get the answer that you are working on the question.
i-73bb79f107d00904-20	Madam President, I would like If we start with housing policy, it is strange that as soon as the Social Democrats rule, there will be a rising stock market, boom and an increase in housing construction. When the opposition rules, it is the opposite. Perhaps we are a little more fortunate, as some have said, or perhaps the policy we are pursuing is working. The key in housing policy in recent years has been investment support, i.e. the investment aid that the Swedish Democrats want to abolish. This was the first thing Roger Hedlund did in 2018 when he voted through a budget together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats. He abolished investment aid, the investment aid that has so far led to the construction of more than 37 000 new homes. It would have been a killing battle for housing policy. In housing policy, therefore, the Swedish Democrats once again show that they are a real right-wing party, a market-liberal party, a party that believes that the market should take care of all housing investments. It is not that simple; we have learned that from long experience. Here, social efforts are needed to ensure that we achieve housing production to such an extent that we can also meet the needs. However, the Swedish Democrats do not understand this. As I said, if the Swedish Democrats had been allowed to decide, housing construction would have been much lower than today. This will always be the effect of abolishing investment aid. As far as the issue of land leases and redemptions is concerned, which is part of Roger Hedlund's question, as far as I know, there are no municipalities that do not allow redemption. Rather, it is the opposite – it is quite favourable conditions. In Stockholm, if you have a small house, you can redeem your land to 50 per cent of the tax value. The tax value is 75 per cent of the market value, so this means that you have to redeem your land at a price below 40 per cent of the market value. In Gothenburg it is the same. There the guideline is 65% of the rateable value, and then we land at barely half of the market value. If you have a land lease, you can buy your land at less than half the price of the market value. I think that's quite affordable. At least it's not a bad deal. For me, this municipal decision is basically. The municipalities are the owners. The question has then been raised whether the state should force the municipalities to sell entirely regardless. I believe that this would be contrary to local self-government. It is the same as if I were to rent land from Roger Hedlund and be dissatisfied with the lease terms. Then I would go to the Riksdag and say that now the Riksdag must force Roger Hedlund to sell his land to me, preferably at a lower price. That is not very reasonable, and what applies to Roger Hedlund and his property rights should also apply to the ownership of municipalities. With this argument, the discussion of an automatic right to free purchase was rejected. After all, it is municipal property, and it must be municipal decisions. Then there is the question of the debtor and how it should be adjusted. It is adjusted normally every ten years, and there can be substantial adjustments. On the other hand, it was known when one entered into such a tenancy that this is the case. Changing this also means compensating the municipalities that lose their revenues. If this is Roger Hedlund's view, I wonder why he has not financed this in order to compensate the municipalities that lose their money.
i-73bb79f107d00904-30	Madam President, I would like I would just like to remind Morgan Johansson that it is the Social Democrats and not the Swedish Democrats who are talking about introducing market rents. Morgan Johansson will have to think about her own policy in this area. I'd like to introduce you to the Santa Claus Institute that was created in 1907. Basically, it was a good system that made it possible for more people to have access to a dwelling. The municipalities rented out their land for the private construction of housing, and private individuals thus avoided paying a capital contribution for the land. The contracts were between 26 and 100 years old. The purpose was for the land and also the property that was next after the contract period to return to the municipality. It could also mean buying the plot and the land at a later stage. Thereafter, when the agreement expired, the municipality could be credited with an increase in the value of the land. These contracts, which lasted about 100 years, also meant that the default made was constant during that time. So it was very favorable agreements that were drawn up. However, the idea was that they would in many ways move to property rights at a later stage. In 1953, the land lease system was reformed. The site was designed to become an unlimited right of use, creating security for those who built a property on the site. It also secured the credit value of the leasehold for these persons in the event of borrowing. The plate, i.e. the municipality, was given an ongoing part of the land's increase in value, and that is what we see in the system today. Basically, it was a good reform that was developed at one time to enable more people to get a home and be able to build their own property. What is it that makes the Social Democrats in modern times so reluctant to reform the system again and adapt it to today's conditions? We hear from Morgan Johansson that you look at the system. But there is already an investigation from 2012 that has looked at the conditions. I agree that there is a need to look at more of the things that the investigation came up with, because I do not think that the investigation's proposals are fully valid either. But I share the view that we really need to review this system and that we need to reform it in the same way that the system has been reformed over time since it was introduced in 1907. In modern times, however, the government and the Social Democrats do not want to review the system. At least that's the interpretation I make when, year after year, you say you look at this but you don't come forward with any suggestions. When, Madam President, do we get an answer from Morgan Johansson on this question? When will we proceed with a reformed site-right system?
i-73bb79f107d00904-38	Madam President, I would like I have never talked about market rents, nor will there be market rents. What Roger Hedlund says is therefore wrong. On the other hand, in the January contract, there is a write-off on lettings for new production, which is something quite different. It is about what rents you should have in the new housing that is being built, which only affects 1% of the additional stock. So there will be no market rents in the existing stock, and that does not mean the agreement we have made. What has actually happened is what I pointed out before, i.e. how the Swedish Democrats together with the other two right parties, the Moderates and Christian Democrats, lowered the entire investment aid system in 2018. We are talking about billions of dollars that were deducted from housing construction, and we know from experience that when you do that, housing construction also falls sharply. This was the case in 2006. During our government period between 2002 and 2006, we introduced investment aid for rental housing, which brought up housing construction very strongly. In 2006 we had a bourgeois government. The first thing that the government did was to abolish investment aid. Housing construction fell dramatically. So we reintroduced the support when we came back in 2014, and now we have got up the housing building at levels that are much higher. Thus, during our period, housing construction in this respect has almost doubled – an increase of 90 per cent. This can not only be attributed to luck with the economy, but it is actually the case that politics plays a role in this area too. Actions that you put in will have meaning. Of course, if the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats had been allowed to rule, housing construction would have been much lower, because this money had been deducted. As far as the leasehold is concerned, I only pointed out that, as far as I know, the possibility of redemption exists in all municipalities at very favourable prices. You have to buy the land at half the price. This is exploited, as I understand it, both by tenant-owners' associations and house owners. The investigation referred to came in 2012 and was set up by the then alliance government. After the criticism that came from many quarters, the Alliance government chose not to go forward with any proposal, but to hand over the matter to us to continue its analysis. And we continue to look at how we can do this, but I cannot now promise a timetable for that work. This is complicated matter, but I also see that Roger Hedlund does not have any concrete proposal either. He says that the problem should be solved, but he is not prepared to spend any money or to compensate the municipalities that get rid of very large amounts. He doesn't put any money into this. Then I mean that he reasonably understands how complex the problem is. No, I cannot promise a timetable for this, but we will of course continue to work on it. For me, this is basically a municipal issue, and it is the municipalities that have decision-making powers. I think it should be done in the main.
i-73bb79f107d00904-47	Madam President, I would like I thank Morgan Johansson for the clarifications. On the Swedish democrats' side, we think that it would be necessary to have a uniform system or, at least, conditions that would allow us to know, in a way, where the ceiling is for the costs of the system. Then municipalities can always go in and lay their own levels. We don't see a problem in that. It is also true, Morgan Johansson, that the Swedish Democrats do not have a concrete overall system on the issue. Like the government, we need to see a clearer investigation into the issue in order to know what the system would provide in terms of economic conditions and consequences for state, municipalities and private individuals. That is why we cannot put the system in our budget or the like, if that is what Morgan Johansson means. We want, as the government wants when making proposals, a good investigation of the issue in order to be able to include it in our budget. As regards housing construction in general, we want to create the conditions for certain groups with weaker household finances to have access to the housing market, and thus we do not believe in investment support. We know that those in line who first have access to the apartments are hardly those with weak economies but those who have been in line for a long time. Instead, we believe that the housing allowance has a more appropriate function in this context. Furthermore, credit restrictions need to be reviewed over the restrictions imposed by the government, which has really put the nail in the coffin for many households' ability to own their homes. This is one of several reasons why we see that housing construction is going down, although housing construction must be seen as having an effect after a long time since it takes many years to build housing in Sweden today.
i-73bb79f107d00904-52	Madam President, I would like I believe that one of the great things about investment support is that it can achieve several different objectives. You can increase housing construction, as we have seen. Every time we introduce investment aid, housing construction increases. Every time the bourgeois abolish investment aid, housing construction is reduced. That is very clear. In addition, you can use investment support to reduce building costs – production costs. The investment aid is designed so that there is a ceiling, i.e. how much the construction costs and what the rents should then look like. Investment support also puts pressure on production costs. Furthermore, investment support can be used to direct more environmentally good production of housing, which is another important objective. Here we hit several flies with one stone with the help of investment support. The right-wing parties want to abolish this investment aid, and we know from experience that every time they do so, housing construction is also greatly reduced. Part of the January agreement does not only mean maintaining investment aid but actually increasing it, and it is extremely important in order to maintain high levels of housing production. Then there was the Santa Claus issue. Then it became quite obvious from Roger Hedlund's second speech that he does not really know what he wants. He wants to do something, but he hasn't set aside any money and he doesn't know what direction it should be. I would also like to remind you that there is a principle of equality to which the municipalities must relate. It means that it is not possible in any case to subsidise certain municipal citizens in relation to other municipal citizens. That's a violation of the Local Government Act. Of course, we are continuing our work in this part, but we should know that it is not easy to solve the issues. I don't have a timetable either.
i-73bb79f107d00904-59	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to ensure that landowners do not have their land occupied by foreign berry pickers, how the legislation can be changed and whether I see a need for changes to facilitate prosecution against litter. D it is important that property rights can be effectively protected when someone residing without authorisation in parks or private land, for example. The government has therefore taken a number of initiatives in recent years to deal with illegal settlements. A new regulatory framework for the removal of unauthorised settlements entered into force on 1 July 2017. The aim is for landowners to be able to get their land back quickly. At the same time, those present on the ground must be guaranteed a legally secure process. The rules have been followed up by government assignments to the Swedish Enforcement Authority and the Police Authority. The authorities' reporting back to the government shows that the removal rules have meant a simpler, cheaper and more legally secure way for landowners to get their land back. The follow-up that has been carried out clearly shows that the new legal framework for the removal of unauthorised settlements has had the intended effect and impact in practice. It is illegal to litter in Sweden. Anyone who litters can be fined or sentenced to prison. Getting rid of a worn-out car in a way that poses a risk to human health or the environment can also be an environmental crime. The supervisory authorities have an obligation to notify the Police Authority if there is a suspicion of a crime. It is then the task of the police to maintain public order and security, and to intervene when persons behave disorderly or commit crimes. In 2019, the Ministry of the Environment commissioned a letter investigator to investigate the possibilities of banning or otherwise regulating products that often occur during littering. The investigator shall present his conclusions on 11 January 2021. The government is awaiting the investigator's conclusions. In the budget proposal for 2021, the Government proposes that the appropriation for the clean-up and restoration of contaminated areas should also be used for the disposal of abandoned and end-of-life vehicles that pose a risk to the environment. The police authority, the Finnish Transport Agency and the municipality also have the right to move abandoned or illegally placed vehicles if this is necessary for, among other things, order, road safety and nature conservation. A complete review of that legislation has recently been carried out on the initiative of the government. The review was presented on 2 November. The investigator proposes that the so-called goaltender clause should also apply to faulty parked vehicles on land. It is also proposed that the Swedish Transport Administration's powers to move vehicles should be extended. The investigator also proposes a number of measures to reduce the costs to the authorities of moving operations. The investigation's proposals are currently being analysed in the Government Office. The government has taken a series of measures to strengthen the ownership of landowners and to tackle the litter caused by illegal settlements. The government also has a number of processes under way to further reduce litter in nature.
i-73bb79f107d00904-64	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. The interpellation is due to the fact that there are extensive problems in Gävleborg with illegal berry picking camps. They are illegal in that landowners have their land occupied. We're talking about EU migrants, and we're talking about big camps. These are problems that have existed for a long time, and that is why we moderates in the Committee on Civil Liberties have pushed the government before us and said that there must be legislation that works. We also warned that the legislation adopted by Parliament might not help. We Moderates wanted, among other things, to give the police the opportunity to reject people from these camps directly. In the response given by the Government, he said that the follow-up that has been carried out clearly shows that the new framework for the removal of unauthorised settlements has had the intended effect and impact in practice. Either the Government, Madam President, believes in the answer he has given or he says this for other reasons. But what is the reality, Madam President? Madam President, who himself lives in Söderhamn, who himself reads the Söderhamn case, who himself sees SVT Gävleborg and who listens to P4 Gävleborg. Maybe she could talk to the government sometime and tell us about the reality of our county. What about it? For example, you can read the news published on Wednesday 30 September at P4 Gävleborg:.The litter of berry pickers is worse now than in previous years, according to Söderhamn municipality. The littering of berry pickers is worse now than in previous years. The technical manager talks about the resignation you feel about having to spend half a million of taxpayers' money to clean up scrap cars. Over 40 scrap cars have been found, Madam President, 40 scrap cars in the forest outside Tönnebro. In another interview, a landowner says that five times has been reported to the police, but nothing happens. This problem recurs year after year. The technical manager in Söderhamn Municipality – I have also spoken to Marjo Myllykoski, who is politically responsible for these issues – says: The police must have a larger mandate. What does the Mayor of Söderhamn say? Well, the headline is a politician wants legal support to prevent littering in the forests, and you talk about the 39 scrap cars that you have had to take care of and that it is the local residents who have to pay the bill. The councilman says we need... more opportunities to intervene. Madam President, I would like This is how I could go on. There are so many newspaper articles. Against this is the response of the Government, and I have to repeat what he says: a follow-up that has been carried out clearly shows that the new legal framework for the removal of illegal settlements has had the intended effect and impact in practice. ..................................................... One had to reasonably ask the question: What was the intended effect of the government? Obviously, it does not work with the legislation that exists today, based on what the officials in Söderhamn municipality say, what the politicians in Söderhamn municipality say and what the citizens of Gävleborg experience. Of course, the problem is in more places, but it clearly does not work. Madam President, I would like I would like to know, and that the Government clarifies, what has been the intended effect.
i-73bb79f107d00904-78	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that it is a matter of course that you should have control over your property and have the opportunity to protect your property. That is absolutely self-evident. That is exactly why we reformed the rules on eviction in 2017. We made it easier, faster, more efficient and cheaper to evict people from these places. In the time of the Moderates, when the Alliance ruled, it was horribly complicated to carry out evictions from these places. You had to identify each individual. You had to pay special fees, much higher than they are now. It was an awfully long and complicated process. All this we drew together for a joint reform in 2017, which also had an effect. When these possibilities were not available, the number of illegal settlements grew. Because the Moderat government was cross-armed and did not want to do anything, we saw bigger and bigger problems. In Malmö we had a large camp in the middle of town, Sorgenfri, which had been standing there year after year. We will be admitted as a government in autumn 2014. I guess it took six months, then the camp was gone. The police had used the powers they actually have to finally clear up that issue. But it was also a clear signal from politics that we do not accept this; this must be addressed. In 2014, we had 230 applications for special handrails, i.e. to assist with eviction. Now that figure has been more than halved – the last figure was 98. The number of applications that go on to enforcement, that is, that the police really have to pull out, was 60. So there has been a dramatic reduction in the number of such applications compared to what it was five years ago. That is what I am talking about, Madam President, when I say that the new regulatory framework has had an effect. We also follow it up with new assignments to the Swedish Enforcement Authority and new assignments to the police to make sure to use the powers they have. I say that it is much better order on this issue now than it was in the time of the Moderates, for then almost nothing happened on these issues. Of course, that does not mean that it never happens that people settle in places where they do not have the right to do so. Of course it is, and it will probably continue to be so. But then the police must use the powers they have, and the police obviously have the right to intervene against ongoing crime under Section 13 of the Police Act. Is this crime in progress? Yes, there are a number of legal provisions that can be used: arbitrary proceedings, littering, vandalism – for which we have also tightened the penalties – and illegal trespassing. The police have these powers; they must also be applied. In the interests of safety, we have asked the police how the new rules work and whether they want new powers. The police authorities say in their accounts that the possibility of intervening against illegal settlements is good, and that the new rules are a good complement to existing regulations. They will make it easier for e.g. landowners to bring back possession to their land while ensuring a legally secure process for those staying on the site. It is also said that in just 11⁄2 years, between 2017 and 2018, the police intervened 600 times against illegal settlements. So it is much better order now than it was before. I stand by that. The police have also not requested any new powers than those they have under the Police Act. We are, of course, continuing to follow this, but I assume that you use the powers you have and intervene as early as you can – before it goes too far.
i-73bb79f107d00904-87	Madam President, I would like I am deeply impressed that the Government uses four minutes of its time to talk about the Moderates. I understand that. I think it's good that a lot of people talk about us Moderates. It's welcome. But what is the reality, Minister? I saw it disappeared 200 - 300 computers from the Government Office. Possibly you have someone left or can use a smartphone. You can use Google and enter a berry picking camp in Söderhamn. You can talk to our first Vice-President, who lives in Söderhamn and can tell you about the reality. A headline: a berry picker dumps garbage in the forests of Tönnebro– 中 I think it's fucked up, says one person. That person is, by the way, so committed that she has written a full memo about the collective proposals for change. So that's the reality. This is the reality of the forests of Hälsingland. That is the reality of Gävleborg. It's reality in more places. Then you could say that it was worse before. Yes, we Moderates in the Committee on Civil Liberties ran the government ahead of us and said that this problem has increased and that we have to solve it. But we also warned that – you can go back and read in the Minutes of that debate – these measures are unlikely to be sufficient. That is where we are today, Madam President. That's where we are today. The reality is, therefore, that landowners this summer and autumn have reported what they perceive as illegal trespasses five times. Five police reports are closed. The reality, Madam President, is that the taxpayers in Söderhamn have paid half a million to clean up the camp in Tönnebro. You can't even imagine the misery that's been there. For example, one of those who cleared the camp said they found lots of diapers. This indicates that there have been small children living under very unreasonable conditions in the forests of Tönnebro. When I wrote this interpellation, 39 cars were scrap cars. They've been completely destroyed. It turns out it's not 39, it's over 40-- I think the latest figure is 43. Then you can say as the Government said in a written answer to me a month ago and in the interpellation answer here: There is no problem. Madam President, I would like I think it is almost a mockery of those who go and clear the woods outside Söderhamn, in Tönnebro. I think it's a mockery of landowners getting their land occupied. I think it is a mockery of the taxpayers in Söderhamn who have to spend half a million, of money that could have been used in a much better way, on removing broken cars from the forests of Hälsingland. I know it is foreign to Minister Morgan Johansson, but it would have been good if he had had a little bit of self-criticism and shown a little bit of action by saying: Yes, I understand that this is a problem. Yes, I understand we have to do something about it. Yes, I understand that I have to take the government car and drive E4 up to Söderhamn, meet the municipal management and talk about how to solve this problem. If the Government does nothing, as the answer indicates, we will have the same problem again next autumn. We will have exactly the same problem and the exact same debate, because this happens year after year. And the existing legislation does not work. These are facts and reality – we can read as many newspaper headlines as we like. Then it is not good enough to say: Yes, the Moderates did nothing in 2012. Madam President, I would like It is 2020 now, and we do not want this problem in autumn 2021. For the issue to be resolved, the government must act. I ask again: What will the Government do so that we do not have the same problem in autumn 2021?
i-73bb79f107d00904-100	Madam President, I would like I did not spend four minutes of my time talking about the Moderates but talking about what we did in the last parliamentary term. We tightened up the rules and we made it more efficient, cheaper and faster to access these types of illegal settlements. Then I said that it has also been effective. We have far fewer illegal settlements of this type now than five years ago. The figures speak clearly: When we took office we had 230 applications for special handrails, now we are down to less than half. In the case of applications for enforcement, there are even fewer, a decrease of up to 75%. The measures we took in 2017 have thus had an effect, and that is also what I was talking about. I also asked Lars Beckman what additional powers he is talking about. The police have the authority to intervene against ongoing crime. If you come to a place and see that there is littering, vandalism, trespassing or arbitrary proceedings, the police have the right to intervene, remove the individuals from the site and actually take care of them, if necessary. So these powers exist, and when we ask the police if any additional powers are needed, they say: No, the new rules are good, we use them. Of course, I cannot control the police in Gävleborg in detail. I can't decide where they're supposed to be and how and when they're going to pull out. You can't do that. But I assume that the police in Gävleborg, as in all other places, intervene when you see ongoing crime. These powers are simply given. Then I had a comment about what the Moderates were doing during their time, when the illegal settlements were just increasing and we had large camps in the middle of Malmö – nothing. I also did not see Lars Beckman running his legs off into this speaker's chair to push and set interpellations in that position. At its worst, the Moderates did not care about the problem. It is this government, which I represent, that has made sure that the system is reformed so that we can now get to grips with the problem much more easily, and we are also seeing tangible changes. Then, as I said, it is a matter of application. I'm assuming that the police throughout the country are taking action against ongoing crime. That's what we're supposed to do.
i-73bb79f107d00904-107	Madam President, I would like I will repeat the headlines from the media in Gävleborg: This is the reality, therefore, in sharp contrast to the figures that Minister Morgan Johansson read out. Year after year the littering of berry pickers increases on a temporary visit to our county. The authorities must have the right conditions to work with these issues and the police must have a larger mandate, says the technical manager in Söderhamn Municipality. Another headline: a lot more littered camps than you thought – the municipality is going on inspection: a plan should be drawn up. Söderhamn Municipal Councillor has been declared. . Politicians want legal support to prevent littering in forests. Clearly, then, the legislation that Morgan Johansson is now referring to is not working. Obviously, the government is not going to do anything because Morgan Johansson is proud and satisfied. The problem with this is that it creates aversion against those who come here and pick berries. There are discussions that people think that the right of public access is wrong. My starting point is that if we are to protect the right of public access, everyone's right to move in land and nature, politicians must act when there is a departure. This is an avenue and must be suppressed. Apart from the problem that there are children of diaper age in these camps and all that this entails, it must end. We can say that the message to those living in Gävleborg is clear: Morgan Johansson and the government are not going to do anything. You're happy; you think this works. It is also an important message from such a debate. I do not share this view and will, of course, continue to work on this issue in order to bring about a change, because this must stop.
i-73bb79f107d00904-113	Madam President, I would like It's obvious Beckman doesn't listen well. What I have said is that the police have the powers they need to intervene against ongoing crime. This is a matter of application. The police will have to make use of their powers. For safety reasons, we also asked the Police Authority if anything further needs to be done and how the Police Authority is assessing the situation right now. We received information yesterday from the North Police Region and the Mitt Police Region. In the North Police Region, it is said that there are fewer disturbances now than in previous years. It is believed that this is linked to the pandemic – that fewer have been able to go, quite simply. Police region Mitt says exactly the same thing: the problems are less frequent now than in previous years. It is related to the pandemic, but, writes Police Region Mitt also, the new rules have also had a deterrent effect. It's much easier now than before. No, Lars Beckman should not interpret this debate at all as saying that the government is not doing anything or is not going to do anything. We intend to ensure that we continue to make use of existing powers by strengthening the police, as we are now doing throughout the country, and by giving high priority to this issue in a completely different way from previous governments. We have already seen results of this over these five years. I can assure both the residents of Gävleborg and Lars Beckman that this is an issue that we will of course continue to work very actively on.
i-73bb79f107d00904-119	Madam President, I would like Kjell Jansson has asked me how I intend to work to make corporate taxation more favourable in the coming years and what kind of changes in the forthcoming tax reform I intend to implement in order to strengthen Sweden's competitiveness and increase the number of hours worked. Niklas Wykman has asked me what concrete measures, including through fiscal policy, I intend to implement in order to ensure that Sweden is not still in danger of becoming among the countries with the lowest growth rate in the EU, but rather of moving towards a higher growth rate and what I intend to do to prevent the tax burden on Swedish companies from increasing during the term of office. A competitive and dynamic business environment is the basis for growth and job creation, and a Swedish model with broad tax bases and low tax rates has proved beneficial over time. The conditions for entrepreneurship shall support fair competition, be internationally competitive and contain predictable regulatory frameworks. The government has been in favour of reforming company taxation, where, among other things, the corporate tax rate has been reduced. In addition, in 2020, a number of specific efforts have been put in place to deal with the consequences of the pandemic on Swedish business – efforts that would not have been possible if we had not entered the pandemic with the lowest public debt since 1977. A low level of public debt, in turn, is linked to a well-functioning and stable tax system. Unlike the interpellants, I see that good conditions for entrepreneurship are about society as a whole and not just about tax levels. Economic muscles in a crisis, as well as well as well-functioning schools, education and infrastructure, are central to Swedish business. This will result in 75 000 more jobs thanks to the latest budget. Of course, tax changes can have a place in crisis policy, and there the tax reduction we introduce for investments in inventory acquired in 2021 is a good example. The tax reduction provides incentives for companies to increase and bring forward investments. It can be new, energy-efficient refrigerators and freezers for the grocery store, a truck with less emissions to the haulage company or perhaps new tractors to the laboratory. In the January Agreement, which is a substantive political agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party, there is an agreement that a comprehensive tax reform will be implemented. The reform will, among other things, increase employment and the number of hours worked, contribute to the achievement of climate and environmental objectives, strengthen Sweden's competitiveness and even out today's growing economic gaps. In working on the tax reform, I look forward to a broad discussion on its content.
i-73bb79f107d00904-126	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your late reply, Minister of Finance. Some view private enterprise as a dangerous tiger to be shot, others consider it to be a cow for milking. Too few people realize that they're the horse that pulls the load. The quote comes from legendist Winston Churchill. In the 2014 election campaign, Stefan Löfven said that Sweden will have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU. How did it go, Madam President? We were in place 24 out of 28 EU Member States before the Corona arrived. 172 000 long-term unemployed have been out of work for over a year. There are more people than those living in Sweden's fifth largest municipality, Linköping. Sweden has the highest youth unemployment rate in a hundred years. Is the Minister of Finance happy with that? The Minister of Finance claims that the budget for 2021 will provide 75 000 new jobs. It is nonsense to hear when unemployment rises every day. Madam President, I would like Entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship are the foundation of all prosperity. The export industry contributes more than 50 per cent of GDP, not least the automotive industry, which contributes about 15 per cent of gross domestic product. The government is doing everything it can to crack the car industry with increased taxes on both vehicles and fuel. Madam President, I would like In her reply, the Minister of Finance states that she wants companies to buy new refrigerators and new trucks. Why, then, does the government propose higher taxes on new vehicles? The effect is exactly the opposite. More people keep their older cars instead of investing in new vehicles. What about increased taxes on business cars and corporate cars? Will the government increase the tax rate by 25% on these vehicles? I want the answer in this Chamber today. The Minister of Finance owes the answer. At the beginning of the week, I met a car dealer in my municipality. He told me he didn't sell a single new light truck. This means that the car fleet is getting older and emissions are increasing. Government policy is not credible, it is dysfunctional. Madam President, I would like Human resources are another system that hinders entrepreneurship. It is a control system similar to that of East Germany for entrepreneurs. According to the Swedish Trade Research Institute, this costs the state 1 – 1.3 billion net annually. Human resources should be decommissioned immediately. Rules for companies cost 90 billion, according to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. Despite this, the authorities function worse than ever with long processing times and lower legal certainty. Entrepreneurs today are often met by arrogant officials at different levels, sometimes purely threatening. Madam President, I would like I'll get back to you.
i-73bb79f107d00904-136	Madam President, I would like Sweden, together with the rest of the world, is undoubtedly in a very harsh situation. There are many of us, if not all, in society who feel a gloom about the situation of loved ones who are sick or who have passed away, about their own health, and about the social isolation that many people around our country, especially our elderly, are struggling with. All health care personnel are, of course, partly at risk of their own health, working to make life work. In all this darkness, we are here today trying to raise our eyes and ask ourselves how Sweden will become a better country in the future when the pandemic is over, when a vaccine is in place and when we can seriously evaluate the Löfven – the Tegnell strategy and how it has affected Sweden and the conditions for jobs and prosperity in our country. Of course, it is not easy to raise your eyes in such a situation. But it still needs to be done, because the future needs to be better. The question is what does the Minister of Finance do to make the future better? Sweden has had a unique ability historically to create a better future. Perhaps Sweden is the land on earth, or at least one of all countries, that has most created the conditions for people to realize life dreams. It is one of the countries in the world that has most created dynamic, growing companies that in the most peaceful way have conquered their surrounding world and created jobs here in Sweden and around the world. This has led to large tax revenues so that we have been able to get better health care and a better functioning police. However, the question is whether the Minister is pursuing a policy of this type of travel for Sweden once again being possible. Swedish history contains absolutely periods of very good conditions for investment and entrepreneurship. This has also achieved very good results in terms of job growth, economic growth, welfare increases, wage increases and welfare expansion in our country. Swedish history also contains long periods of, compared to the rest of the world, too high tax pressure that has been tried to dampen with different types of special rules, temporary reliefs and so on. Unfortunately, the Minister for Finance has embarked on a course of thought that leads to the idea of how Swedish politics has been pursued when Sweden has functioned at its worst. We have a tax burden that is too high in relation to the outside world. This is being tried year after year in budgets to compensate for various types of deductions or reliefs, and the Minister for Finance has now mentioned one. As a crisis measure, you can certainly give companies relief from one year to another. Here Elisabeth Svantesson, Moderate Economic Policy Spokesperson and Vice Chairman of the Finance Committee, has run the Government and Finance Minister before him during the spring so that there have been crisis measures in place. But one cannot believe that crisis measures, temporary reliefs, a temporary reduction in corporate tax or a temporary deduction are aimed at investing and creating jobs in Sweden. This is, of course, a relief for existing companies, and that is how it is and it is needed. But if you want the country to be better in the future, you need new investments and new companies that provide new and more jobs. And it does not come from temporary tax relief, whether it is one-time money to be paid to households just before the election or whether it is a matter of companies being allowed to make extra large deductions during a year. It may be welcome, albeit occasionally a little strangely constructed. What are the real long-term measures? What is the message from the Minister for Finance to those who are thinking of investing in Sweden, starting a business in Sweden and creating jobs in Sweden? What long-term obligations does the Minister of Finance undertake for these?
i-73bb79f107d00904-143	Madam President, I would like Thank you, my dear fellow Members of Parliament, for a very important interpellation! It is clear that the tax system is very important and linked to jobs. I am going to raise an issue that is about jobs, and it is of course about the significance of the Swedish automotive industry for Sweden. Madam President, I would like There are about 155 000 people working in the Swedish automotive industry. At car workshops and at car dealers about 40 000 people work, i.e. those who work directly in the automotive industry. The government is planning very large, large and strong increases in company car taxation. This concerns sellers, craftsmen and a large number of other people. The combination of bonus – malus, which penalizes cars, and shock-raised company car taxation will naturally lie down as a wet blanket over the automotive industry in Sweden. I cannot imagine any other country where a government of surgical precision is attacking its own car industry. Looking at the proposal and draft tax table that the government has presented, it doests with surgical precision into one of Sweden's most manufactured cars. With surgical precision, the government is targeting the Swedish automotive industry. It's very hard to understand. The 100,000 travelling sellers in Sweden are doing a fantastic job to get products out of the factories or get service-producing companies to translate more. Why should the government go after traveling salesmen? You could say: Switch to a smaller car and the company car taxation will be lower. But it is also employer responsibility. The seller who drives 5 000 – 8 000 km per year and who drives on a dark E4 night after night and risks colliding with an elk should of course drive a safe car. It is an important occupational safety and health issue. I do not know what would happen in France if the French Government were to attack the French car manufacturers with surgical precision. There would probably be riots. But here in Sweden, the government has gone after the Swedish automotive industry with two evils. On the other hand, we have the Malus system, which, with surgical precision, spots the craft cars, plumbers, electricians and all other important professions. First of all, before 2021, we intend to go after the company car drivers. The word "autobil " refers to what it is about; you use a car in the ministry. Madam President, I would like No one has the privilege of free desk in the office. Would anyone think of the gifted idea? The desk can be used in private, so now we're going to have a desk tax. No, but the government intends to increase company car taxation significantly. Looking at the table we see, as I said, that the government with surgical precision dots the cars that are manufactured most in Sweden. Surgical precision undermines our Swedish automotive industry. It is not good to design a tax system that reduces the number of jobs in Sweden. We will of course benefit the Swedish automotive industry so that it becomes more competitive and we get more jobs in the automotive industry. The tax system is of great importance here.
i-73bb79f107d00904-155	Madam President, I would like I will answer many of the questions that have been asked, but I still have to start with Kjell Jansson's claim that human resources are like East Germany. It is a great responsibility to be a Member of Parliament, and you therefore have a great deal of responsibility for what you say in the Parliament's pulpit. To evict that human resources are like East Germany is a deep insult to all victims of East Germany's dictatorship. I think it's very serious. There were so many people who suffered under this dictatorship, and comparing the supervision and repression in East Germany with the human resources people is an insult to a great many people. But it is not just an insult to everyone who suffered under this dictatorship. It is also a deep insult to my predecessor, Anders Borg, the Moderate Minister of Finance, who introduced human resources. Let us turn to the subject of this debate, the taxes. The government has conducted a policy for Sweden to have a tax system that works, which ensures that we can finance welfare and also provides good conditions for Swedish business. Among other things, during my time as finance minister, we have continued the work that began under the alliance government to reschedule business taxation. The aim of this work has been to broaden the corporate tax base, i.e. the base on which tax is paid, and then to reduce tax rates. It has been an important and successful piece of work that also benefits those companies that are not trying to reduce corporate tax through different loan spinners, but who are striving, working and doing the right thing. This means that we will now be able to reduce the corporate tax rate again. We have also introduced other important changes in the tax system, also to make it fairer. In addition, in this crisis we are taking specific crisis measures to support companies through the crisis and ensure that Sweden is strongly equipped when we are through this crisis. We are therefore implementing the special deduction for investments, both in order to maintain the pace of investment so that it supports the recovery of the economy here and now and to ensure that Sweden is well equipped when the crisis is over. So to vehicle taxation and the rescheduling government makes of bonus – malus. I note that the Moderates are more focused on Malus and less on bonuses. In the debate, it sounds like there is only one malus for those who buy gas-sucking SUVs. But you can actually get a bonus if you buy an eco-friendly car. What is good about the Swedish car manufacturer is that it also has cars that are environmentally friendly and gives the opportunity for bonuses. The aim of the switchover is to support the procurement of environmentally friendly cars. Let me also say that a car is used solely in the service, and you are not taxed in favour. You only get preferential tax if the car is also used in private.
i-73bb79f107d00904-164	Madam President, I would like I can edit my post and say that it is perceived as a very strong control system for small businesses when registering their children who are employed in the company via human resources. Madam President, I would like According to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the business environment has deteriorated every year since 2015 during the time of the Government Lövven. The only ones that make it work are moderate-controlled municipalities, which are at the top. Honor to Solna and Pehr Granfalk who win year after year, after all. Small businesses are at the root of the domestic market, so I ask the Minister for Finance: Why does the Minister of Finance want such high taxes on entrepreneurs who create new jobs? Sweden has double taxation of entrepreneurs, corporate tax of 22% and dividend tax of 30%. What about the 3:12 investigation? Are there any suggestions or not? One consequence of the government raising taxes is that it becomes less profitable to run a business. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Work Environment Authority goes out on its raids and meets entrepreneurs. They tell the entrepreneur that the work environment plan is too bad, but when the entrepreneur wonders what he or she can do, the Swedish Work Environment Agency says: We cannot give an answer, because we are not consultants. Does the Minister of Finance think that doing this to small businesses contributes to a good business environment? Another point I want to make is that the Swedish Work Environment Authority ran a mobile game, The Boss, in order to put an end to unhealthy competition. On whose mission I don't know, but it was done anyway. It should not be part of the Authority's mission to run campaigns against companies. Is this part of the regulatory letter? The Minister of Finance owes the answer. The Swedish Agency for Growth is another authority, and it has major problems with the safe handling of lay-off aid now under the coronan. Madam President, I would like The government is investing SEK 40 billion in various business projects. This does not have any effect, but rather harms the business community. It is high time for the government to do something about the deteriorating business environment, which has galloped during the year of the government Lövven. It is also high time to ensure that our authorities have legal certainty and not arbitrarily hunt small businessmen with enforcement measures. It is also high time that the government produced a tax reform that is included in the JÖK. My question to the Minister for Finance is: will other parties be able to hammer out the new tax reform, or will it be done with the Social Democrats, the Green Party and their support parties? Tax reform should promote work, entrepreneurship and growth.
i-73bb79f107d00904-176	Madam President, I would like Let me start with a discussion of what is worthy of saying. All parties have mistakes in their history, but the Finance Minister should be very aware that the Social Democrats have nothing to teach the Moderates in terms of standing up for democracy and human rights in the former Eastern bloc. It was not moderate representatives who went down and toasted and celebrated the 40th anniversary of the dictatorship in East Germany. It was not moderate representatives who claimed that the Baltics were not occupied. It was representatives of the party of the Minister for Finance who did this. It would be nice to be humbled in the face of the historic strange mistakes made by the Social Democracy against the dictatorships of the East. On the subject of taxes, Sweden needs to rise when it comes to economic growth. How can the Minister of Finance be so pleased when unemployment has become so high? How can the Minister for Finance be so satisfied when Sweden's growth compared to the rest of the world and Europe in particular has become so low? How can the Minister of Finance be so pleased when so many curves point in the wrong direction? How can the Minister of Finance be so pleased with the development in Sweden when so many Swedes feel a great worry about everyday life and the future? Madam President, I would like We have asked the Minister for Finance – I have done so in my interpellation – what measures she intends to take to increase growth in the future. The Minister of Finance claims that she has been pushing for reforms in the tax system. It is true that the reduced possibilities for interest rebates have been compensated – well, otherwise taxation would have been increased. But the Minister of Finance has repeated the demands to increase corporate taxation so that those who work and work most in their own companies – in the few-person companies – will get increased tax. The Minister of Finance has repeatedly reiterated that they are fiscally advantageous, and she wants to increase their tax as quickly as possible, perhaps not as much as possible but at least a great deal. In what way does this increase the incentives to start, run and engage in such companies? What other major changes in the tax system do the Minister of Finance think are creating jobs? Is that the tax imposed on fridges, freezers and all electronics? Does this create more jobs for our electronics companies and retailers around the country? Is it the plastic bag tax, which means that it costs 7 SEK in admission to go shopping at Konsum or Ica, which contributes to more jobs in stores around the country? Is it the clothing tax – which has been investigated, which the government has supported and which will hit the Swedish fashion industry and Swedish consumers – that will create more jobs? Is it the airline tax, which makes it expensive and difficult to start a company around Sweden? Is it the increased vehicle and petrol taxes that will make it more possible to run companies and have entrepreneurship around Sweden? Which of these taxes does the Minister of Finance think contributes to more jobs in Sweden?
i-73bb79f107d00904-180	Madam President, I would like I mentioned the government's attacks on the Swedish automotive industry. It must be unprecedented for a government to attack its own important automotive industry. Then the minister says to buy a smaller car. I would like to send a thought to the children's family in Gävle who have a disabled child. The child is ten years old. They need to buy a large car to be able to get the electric wheelchair and wheelchair in. The car support system works as such that the family can get about 20 000 in the purchase allowance, but then the penalty tax, at current levels, is 20 000 per year for three years. This family with a wheelchair thus pays 60 000 in penalty tax. When the family changes cars in a number of years, the penalty tax from 1 May with today's system would be 40,000 a year, with the same car. In other words, the state takes 120 000 in penalty tax from a family with children in Gävle who need a wheelchair with them. I think it is pointless that the Minister of Finance should then say that you should buy a smaller car. Of course, many families with disabled children dream of being able to have a smaller car, but you do not have a car with a wheelchair because it is fun. The reported salesman who told me about this example last Wednesday said that he feels physically ill because disabled people are punished in today's Sweden. He said that they should do what they can to register the car before 1 May, which means that the family gets 20,000 per year in penalty tax instead of 40,000, but if the registration does not catch up and they do not have time to get the delivery of the car before then the penalty tax will be 40,000 per year for a family with children in Gävle who has a disabled child. This is the position of the Minister for Finance in the speaker's chair and defends it. I think it is unworthy, speaking of an earlier debate.
i-73bb79f107d00904-185	Madam President, I would like You have a responsibility for what you say in the Parliament's pulpit. There is a lie that Ingvar Carlsson would have participated in the 40th anniversary of the GDR and gave a speech where he said that Sweden had a lot to learn from East Germany. There are no sources to verify this claim. It's a lie that's spreading. It has been written on Svenska Dagbladet's editorial page, and I suppose that is the reference that Niklas Wykman uses when he claims this. But there's nothing to confirm that. That's a lie. Ingvar Carlsson did not participate in the celebration. When it comes to historically discussing the view of democracy, you throw some stones in glass houses – the Moderates were against universal suffrage. It is important that we have a well-functioning tax system. What we have today has many flaws. It is not redistributive enough, and it is often characterized as something of a patchwork. It is a lot of deductions, and it can be difficult for people to penetrate. It is against this background that we have said in the January parties that we are going to carry out a comprehensive tax reform. We had come a long way in how to put up this work when the coronapandemy struck. Then we had to put it aside because during the spring we implemented historically large crisis packages to protect Swedish companies and Swedish jobs. Short-term lay-off is one of the most important measures we have implemented during the spring. Everyone with whom I have spoken means that it has had a great effect and that thousands of people who would otherwise have become unemployed are not now due to short-term lay-off. What Kjell Jansson refers to when he says that it has no effect is not something that I have encountered when I have met with entrepreneurs and the trade union movement, nor when I have discussed with our authorities. On the other hand, the Moderates' proposal there at the beginning to reduce the employer's contribution for all entrepreneurs over a long period of time and spend 100 billion a month would not have had much accuracy. It would have been far less effective. Nor would we have had the opportunity to come up with the new crisis packages or with the big budget that I could put forward in September if we had listened to the Moderates. By then we had already emptied the barns during the spring. But we put this work aside then. We had to focus on the crisis. I hope that we will be able to resume this work. Hopefully, this spread of infection will decrease and the crisis will subside so that we can focus on the more regular work again as soon as possible. When we have discussed how to set up this work, we have also considered that it is important when we discuss taxes and make a major tax shift that all parties have the opportunity to participate in the discussion so that we will have a form to discuss this with other parties in the Riksdag as well.
i-73bb79f107d00904-191	Madam President, I would like As expected, there are not many answers that we receive from the Minister for Finance. It's mostly defensive that it's been a coronapandemia and it's hard to make time to do things. Of course we have a pandemic and of course it affects Sweden hard, not least small businessmen and people who are going to work. But then perhaps you should make it easier for them in many ways and not make it more difficult for them. In fact, most of the measures taken to alleviate the effects of the pandemic have been pushed by Elisabet Svantesson in the Committee on Finance. Madam President, I would like I have still not received an answer from the Minister for Defence if she sees the business sector as a cow to be milked, or if she thinks it is the horse that is pulling the load. That question is quite interesting. In addition, we do not get any answers about the car industry, which is a locomotive in Swedish industry when it comes to raising money for our welfare. The car industry has accounted for 15% of GDP. Now I cannot say that these figures are accurate with regard to the pandemic. We have several companies in this industry that are world leaders. Nevertheless, the Minister for Finance, with his support parties, especially the Green Party, wants to impose penalties on this industry. They also want to tax small businesses who need light trucks to bring their tools, pipes, electric chargers and so on when they go to work every morning. They also want to increase their taxes if they want to buy a new car. But if they keep an old car, it'll be a lot cheaper. It doesn't make any sense. Madam President, I would like It is time for the government to reconsider and end up with surgical precision penalising small businessmen.
i-73bb79f107d00904-197	Madam President, I would like There were two parallel discussions, one on the Swedish historical foreign policy and the relationship with old dictatorships and the other on tax policy. I think that the Minister for Finance has just underscored my point and my reaction in the light of her very indignant and exhilarating speech. There is absolutely an important point for all parties to be humble, because there is no one who is faultless in the way they have acted historically. There is no one who possesses an absolute truth that can stand unresponsive for centuries. That is simply the case. It is not possible to get away from the fact that, for example, the party of the Minister for Finance acted very well with regard to the Polish trade union movement and the struggle for freedom there. But you belittled other things completely. I think it was Pierre Schori who said that they did not support the separatism that prevailed in the Baltic countries when the Baltic states wanted to be free. I would like to take it to heart that the Minister for Finance thinks I should be humble, because my appeal to her is the same and not to blame. On the other hand, when it comes to tax matters, the Minister of Finance needs to provide answers. Which of the Finance Minister's tax changes leads to more jobs? Is that the threat of raising taxes on the sheep companies? Are these the threats of introducing mileage taxes? Are these the threats of introducing clothing taxes on the fashion industry? Is it the tax on refrigerators, stoves and other trades? Are these the increased vehicle taxes? Is it the fuel taxes? Or what is it in the Finance Minister's tax policy that will lead to Sweden once again becoming a growth miracle, so that we can finance the police, defence, medical care and other things that we need?
i-73bb79f107d00904-201	Madam President, I would like The discussion on Eastern Europe is important in the light of the development of the debate and the increasing threats we see to democratic order. We also see a tendency around the world, and also in Sweden, that you might be careless with facts. Niklas Wykman says that there is no one who owns an absolute truth. You could say that. But either Ingvar Carlsson participated in the 40th anniversary of East Germany, or he did not. Svenska Dagbladet's editorial side and Niklas Wykman try to fuel the rumor that he participated. But the absolute truth is he didn't participate. Participating as a Member of Parliament from the Parliament's pulpit in this kind of spreading of reputation is serious, and it is not good for the long-term development of Swedish democracy. However, I look forward to further discussions on the tax system. It is important that we have a well-functioning tax system. It is also important to have a tax system that governs the right. I look forward to further discussions with the Moderates on how to shape the tax system in the future. But my point of departure is, of course, that we must also rule properly. It is also important for the Swedish business community that we have taxes that govern right, for example that we steer towards buying environmentally friendly cars. There are environmentally friendly Volvo cars. Volvo wants to be completely fossil-free. Of course, we should therefore steer Swedish consumers towards buying Volvo's charging hybrids and eventually also Volvo's electric cars. That is the goal, through a wise tax policy, to support Swedish companies, including our large car manufacturer.
i-73bb79f107d00904-205	Madam President, I would like Helena Bouveng has asked me when I intend to come back with proposals on how healthcare workers can be exempted from preferential taxation for transport to and from work. The question is raised in the light of an announcement by the Riksdag in May this year that the Government will come back with a proposal for the temporary abolition of preferential taxation of free meals and transportation to and from the work of health care personnel. In the supplementary amending budget submitted to Parliament on 3 November this year, the Government has proposed the introduction of a tax exemption for the benefit of free nutrition in specific cases. This applies to food gifts given to workplaces in order to show appreciation and support for staff. Tax exemption is not general, but the meal must have been left without any requirement for compensation, and there must be no connection between the person who gives the meal and the employer. However, it is not limited to specifically identified occupational categories or crises. The tax exemption is proposed to apply permanently and retroactively from March 2020. As regards the benefit of free transport to and from work, the Swedish Tax Agency has made it clear in its opinion of 17 June this year that if, during an ongoing pandemic, an employee receives a taxi ride or a similar travel benefit from his employer, the benefit should not be valued at a higher cost than what a public transport journey costs. The position shall apply from March 2020 and as long as the Public Health Authority's recommendations on restrictions to reduce the spread of infection in public transport remain. Thus, the benefits that are actually being raised for free transport to and from work are not higher than the cost of a bus or other public transport journey. The Tax Agency's pragmatic approach to such benefits appears to be a better option in the current situation than to limit tax rules to certain specific occupational categories or specific workplaces for a limited period of time in the legislation. It is not easy to draw up rules of law that apply only to certain occupations or to certain workplaces in a sufficiently accurate manner. Such rules also run counter to the generality of tax rules and should not exempt certain groups of employees from taxation. It would also further complicate the tax system.
i-73bb79f107d00904-209	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I have previously asked Magdalena Andersson a written question about when she intends to return to Parliament with suggestions on how healthcare workers can be exempted from preferential taxation for transport to and from work. On 27 May, Parliament already issued an announcement to the government to return as soon as possible with preferential transport and meals. Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that, almost six months later, the government has now submitted an additional amending budget introducing a tax exemption for the benefit of free nutrition in specific cases. Good there, although one may not be able to accuse the government of being directly fast-footed. As far as the exemption of preferential transport taxation is concerned, there is nothing. In reply to my written question, the Minister of Finance refers to the fact that the announcement is analysed at the Government Office. Now the government has finished analysing. Now we have the answer, Madam President. The answer is: No, you can't. My view is that the majority in parliament, myself, my party and, if I can guess, large parts of the Swedish people say that it is possible – it must be possible. I am convinced that no one would accuse the government or the Minister of Finance if extraordinary decisions were taken in extraordinary times. If you want to, you can. Madam President, I would like Those who are working in health care right now deserve more than waiting almost six months for such an analysis to be completed. They deserve a government that finds ways forward for healthcare professionals to be able to get to work safely without being taxed. Every day doctors, nurses, nurses and everyone else who works in our hospitals struggle with their own health as an effort to get us out of the pandemic in a good way. My question is: does the Minister of Finance not think that all these healthcare heroes are worth getting better conditions and the right conditions to get to and from work safely?
i-73bb79f107d00904-215	Madam President, I would like In any case, the government claims to be pursuing a feminist foreign policy, and one can imagine that the government is also running a feminist domestic policy. The crisis has hit sectors where a lot of women work. It has been about care for the elderly and about health care. There are many of us, Madam President, who are very dismayed at the way in which people, especially elderly people, have been treated during the pandemic, with very condescending comments and plain accusations of being vectors. It has been possible to read newspaper reports about people who are being slapped on the street when they go home to the elderly to help them, sometimes at risk of their own health. This is very unfortunate. We have also seen that large business sectors where many women work, such as hairdressers, have been severely affected by the consequences of the pandemic. I wonder if there has been a gender equality analysis of the effects of the pandemic in Sweden on the part of the Minister for Finance. Has there been any specific assessment based on the women who have been severely affected in the footsteps of the pandemic? Now the Moderates managed to push the government ahead and get tax exemption on meals, which is of course very welcome. It took a hard fight. I myself, Madam President, attended the meeting where we pushed this through in the Committee on Finance. It is after strong opposition from the Social Democrats that one can now express this solidarity by giving a meal to someone who works or eats it without being taxed in favour. It is very good that this proposal has come, but I am somewhat surprised that it does not act, for example, when it comes to transport or congestion taxes. I wonder how, for example, the Minister of Finance puts forward recommendations that people should not travel collectively when they are also subject to very heavy penalties when they travel by car. Are there thoughts with the Minister of Finance there? Finally, Madam President, I would like to say something about the tone of the conversation and the democratic situation. It's required for the record. It gets very strange when you say something in the speaker's chair that I previously did about Ingvar Carlsson's visit to the DDR for their 40th anniversary and the Minister of Finance then goes up and says that I have said that he has attended a dinner, gave a tribute speech and so on and is very upset about this, even though it was not at all what I said. It is very easy to check that Ingvar Carlsson was in the DDR during the prelude to their 40th anniversary, but then the Finance Minister claims that I should have said a lot of other things that I have not said. Doing so and trying to extrapolate their political opponents and their statements as much as possible and then attacking them very hard is unfortunately a poison in the political discussion. It has emerged through Twitter, Facebook and social media to do so; it is not absolutely necessary to take that action into this House.
i-73bb79f107d00904-224	Madam President, I would like From the time this pandemic came to Sweden, the government has delivered a wide range of proposals to the Riksdag – also in very good cooperation with the parties in the Riksdag – to deal with the pandemic. We have worked on the basis of a strategy where it is primarily about stopping the spread of infection and ensuring resources for health care. It is about protecting Swedish jobs and Swedish companies, but of course it is also about protecting those who become unemployed. Those working in health care are one of the groups that the government has worked very hard for during the pandemic. That's why one of the first messages we made was that the government takes all the extraordinary costs of health care and care for the sick. We did this so that health professionals and care staff could work in a safe manner to ensure that money should not be what stands in the way of good care for those who are sick and for our elderly. At the beginning of the pandemic there was a shortage of equipment, which meant that there was a danger to both the staff and the elderly. But it was never money that was lacking, but it was the supply chains that did not work. In addition, the government has ensured that you are not taxed for free parking or for meals that, for example, volunteers donate to staff who work very hard. If, for example, it is possible to take taxis to and from work during this pandemic to avoid the spread of infection, you should not have to be taxed for this either. It could be a fairly high level of taxation. I fully share the view of the Moderates that it is important not to be taxed for this. That is why I have noted with great pleasure that the Swedish Tax Agency has announced that they will not apply the current tax rules in this way during the pandemic. So you will not be taxed preferentially for the cost of, for example, taxiing to work. The IRS has solved this issue so that we do not have to come up with legislation. Given that the Swedish Tax Agency has resolved the issue in this pragmatic way, I question whether it is justified to take up many hours for the officials of the Ministry of Finance and to have their overtime account ticked further to make a legislative change when the issue is effectively resolved by the Swedish Tax Agency. If we return to Niklas Wykmans and my debate on Eastern Europe, it is quite correct that Niklas Wykman did not say that Ingvar Carlsson had been there. But he said that representatives of the Social Democrats had toasted and celebrated during the 40th anniversary. It is Svenska Dagbladet who has recently written about this and that it was Ingvar Carlsson who did it. But that is not correct. I do not know that Social Democrats toasted the 40th anniversary in East Germany. It is important, however, that we all jointly reject the terrible dictatorship of East Germany. I feel confident that Niklas Wykman is completely behind me in my disgust for that dictatorship.
i-73bb79f107d00904-231	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his tribute to the good cooperation in this time. I think we've solved it well, and we've helped each other. I thank you for that. However, the Corona virus continues to hit the entire community hard. The most important task, as the Minister for Finance said, is to limit the spread of infection and to save lives while protecting work and businesses. We all have a responsibility at this time. However, some professions work more than usual and take greater risks to help those who suffer the most. Madam President, I would like There are many who want to help in the present situation. These are initiatives that I think should be encouraged and created the conditions for rather than putting a stop to, which, in any case, seems to be the government's strategy on this issue. Yes, the Minister for Finance, the Tax Agency's pragmatic approach is good when it comes to the taxation of taxi fares provided by the employer. However, there are more people who want to help, and the current rules on preferential taxation and the work involved in dealing with them stand in the way of all the good initiatives in our society. This, for example, prevents companies that want to provide cars to those who work in healthcare and care for covid-19 patients. This prevents all of them from using car pools or other services that could make it easier for them to get to work safely every day. Today, a nurse would pay nearly $1,200 to use such a service. That cannot even be considered reasonable by the Minister for Finance. Perhaps the Minister of Finance had not anticipated a second wave and that the Public Health Authority's recommendations would remain and in many ways be tougher than what was seen last spring, not least as regards the spread of infection in public transport. Can the Minister of Finance understand that the nurse who gets on the bus every day has difficulty understanding the logic? An authority advises against travelling collectively while the government dismisses initiatives that would enable him or her to safely get to work to save the lives of others.
i-73bb79f107d00904-237	Madam President, I would like A tense and open debate between democratic representatives often has the merit of also seeing a lot of things that are agreed upon. I agree with Magdalena Andersson's very clear defence of democracy and in our common conviction that common rights and freedoms should encompass all people. It's very important. Swedish people should feel that this is the way it is. There can be a change of power, and you can change sides. But it does not change the direction of fundamental values in society. It is very good and well so. On the other hand, I have more doubts about the way the Minister for Finance is shaping economic policy. I got caught up in what the Minister of Finance said: Should the Ministry of Finance's employees really spend more overtime investigating whether health workers should be able to go tax-free to work? Madam President, I would like This depends on whether it is compared with spending overtime on the introduction of a tax on clothing and shoes, if it is compared with spending time on the introduction of additional air tax and additional penalties through vehicle taxation, if it is compared with increasing ownership taxation and a number of other tax increases. In that case, for the weekend, I would like to ask the Minister for Finance that it is better to spend the overtime on a tax reduction, if the alternative were to be all the tax increases that the Minister of Finance is preparing. What about the tax reform, which could solve a great deal of the problems? Magdalena Andersson has been Minister of Finance for a long time, for six years, and now says that we are perhaps at the start of a tax reform. It's a pretty slow act. A clear message should be sent to all those who are working hard with the crisis that they should not be taxed preferentially.
i-73bb79f107d00904-242	Madam President, I would like During the pandemic, the government has worked with great care for all those who work in health care. Among other things, it has been about the important message that it is not money that stands in the way of caring for the sick and the elderly. In addition, we have made very extensive contributions to the regions and municipalities, which are responsible for this activity. In a crisis like this, tax revenues in municipalities and regions are falling. Then the state can choose to compensate them for it so that they can continue to have many employees and pay the decent wages. There is a big difference between how this government has acted and how the alliance government acted during the financial crisis. Also during the financial crisis, tax revenues in municipalities and regions fell. But they did not receive compensation for the falling tax revenue. This meant that they had to lay off staff at school, care for the elderly, health care and preschool. This government has chosen not to act that way. On the contrary, municipalities and regions not only receive compensation for the falling tax revenues, but also more money – in fact three times as much – so that everyone who during this pandemic works in healthcare and care can be sure not to have to get rid of colleagues. On the contrary, there should be opportunities to continue to have good working conditions. As regards preferential taxation of travel to and from work, it is common for the employer to pay for such a journey. This problem has been solved in practice by the Swedish Tax Agency through its amended application, which applies to journeys to and from work, so that you do not be taxed in favour of the value of travelling by taxi. However, as far as I know, the IRS has not commented on what applies if there are others who want to help with travel. But it is of course a question that Helena Bouveng or I can ask the Tax Agency.
i-73bb79f107d00904-247	Madam President, I would like The usual thing is that the employer pays for such benefits. But now it is not a normal time but a rather unusual time. If I have understood correctly, it is absolute preferential taxation on whether others want to help with, for example, car pools or other things. In his reply, the Minister for Finance says that tax rules established for a particular occupational group would run counter to an important principle in Swedish legislation that rules should be general and not exempt certain groups of employees from taxation. For my part, the principle of not taxing certain benefits to certain professions is essentially a question of both decency and the legitimacy of the tax system. It is not reasonable for the nurse, doctor or others who are working more and taking an incredible responsibility in the crisis to be taxed preferentially for the support provided by the public and society. Making these heroes fiscal objects just so they can safely get to work cannot be right. Madam President, I would like I am used to the Finance Minister turning his back on me in this House, but I ask her not to turn her back on our health heroes. They deserve more than that.
i-73bb79f107d00904-250	Madam President, I would like There are many heroes in society. What the Swedish Tax Agency has done is to solve the issue not only for health professionals but for all occupational groups. There are many heroes in society. The healthcare and care staff are doing a fantastic job and also made a fantastic contribution during the spring. But there are many other professions that also have to get to work during the pandemic. I am thinking, for example, of the police, which are just as vulnerable to infection in public transport as the medical staff. I think that the Swedish Tax Agency's position, which affects all staff, is much better. They apply to all professional groups such as the police, customs, the military and the lawyers of the courts. All this must work during the pandemic. The Swedish Tax Agency's position is therefore much better than the Moderates' proposal, as the police are not supposed to have the opportunity to go by taxi to work to avoid infection while the nurse could. I think that the possibility should apply to everyone during this period, and that is why the Tax Agency's position is good. Of course, we will also see how the Swedish Tax Agency believes that other than the employer can offer such offers to the staff. I see the heroic efforts of the medical staff – the nurse, the assistant nurse and the doctor – but I also see the heroic efforts of other professionals. This applies, for example, to the police, customs officials and also to all officials at the Swedish Tax Agency who cannot work from home.
i-73bb79f107d00904-254	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg has asked me whether it is my view that the impact assessments that have been carried out before, for example, the introduction of the chemical tax and the plastic bag tax have been sufficient given the negative effects we now know from her that the taxes have brought about. She has also asked why I choose to introduce the clothing tax, which referral bodies have rejected so clearly and which, according to her, has such clearly harmful consequences and whether I make the analysis that Swedish companies' activities are facilitated or made more difficult by, for example, the chemical tax, plastic bag tax and the new tax on clothing and shoes. K onsequence analyses are of great importance when the government takes a position on various proposals. The taxes in question have been preceded by standard impact assessments. In addition, the Government, together with the authorities, continuously follows developments once a proposal has been introduced. The evaluation report referred to by Boriana Åberg describes that it is difficult to evaluate the effects on health and the environment of the tax on chemicals in certain electronics since it was introduced three years ago and effects are usually measurable after a long period of time. It is also described in the report that some of the substitution work carried out since the introduction of the tax is likely not to have been measured at this stage, indicating that in the longer term the tax could possibly contribute to a reduction in the use and exposure of dangerous chemical substances. Consultation response on the design of a tax on chemicals in clothing and footwear is currently being prepared in the Government Office.
i-73bb79f107d00904-258	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I put this interpellation to the Minister for Finance because I am very concerned about the government's so-called environmental taxes, which in fact have very little or no positive impact at all on the environment and the climate. However, the price for consumers and businesses is very high. I am even more concerned that the government does not seem to listen to the consultation bodies or learn from past mistakes. New taxes are being pushed on and planned with unclear benefits but which cause considerable damage to businesses, employment and welfare. The chemical tax was introduced on 1 July 2017 with the aim of reducing the presence of hazardous chemicals in people's home environment and encouraging companies to use more environmentally friendly alternatives. That was a laudable aim, but there is much to say about the design and impact of the chemical tax. From the outset, the consultation bodies were critical, particularly when the tax was not scientifically based. Good substances were taxed while bad ones got away, because the technical characteristics of the substances were taxed instead of the environmental ones. But the government dismissed the referrals, introduced the tax and also raised the tax even though the parliament had announced to the government that the effects would be evaluated. Recently, the evaluation report of the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate came. The report shows that the chemical tax is ineffective and that it cannot be demonstrated that chlorine, bromine and phosphorus in flame retardants in white and electronic goods have been reduced as a result of the tax. It can also be seen from the report that the cost of the tax has been passed on to consumers in the form of higher prices for the products they buy. Furthermore, the report notes that the administrative burden on companies is perceived as very burdensome, not least because reporting contains a large part of manual processes and because there is a constant change in the regulatory framework. In other words, it will not be a good rating for the tax. The chemical tax is not the only example of poorly thought-out taxes. In May this year, the tax on plastic bags was introduced. The government estimated revenue to be nearly 2.8 billion a year. But the construction of the treasure was completely wrong. It equates fossil-based plastic bags with bio-based recycled plastic. What, then, is the environmental impact of the whole thing? Nor is the financial impact something to hang on the Christmas tree. It has received SEK 100 million during the first four months, which is significantly less than expected. Nor is it the only tax that is wrong for the environment, businesses and consumers. In addition, a tax on clothing and shoes is planned.
i-73bb79f107d00904-263	Madam President, I would like There has recently been a report from ESO, which at least itself usually describes itself as the Ministry of Finance's think tank, think tank. ESO was shut down in 2003 by the Social Democrats but restarted during the alliance years. The aim was to have a more flexible economic policy debate, to have a more critical approach to the decisions taken and to be better able to evaluate, monitor and be creative in economic policy. Klas Eklund, who has worked on a proposal for a tax reform, points out that environmental taxes should not be used to secure public finances. Environmental taxes shall be used to achieve environmental objectives. These objectives shall not be confused. This is a very strong argument against what the Minister of Finance is doing and which is enshrined in the agreement she has with her partners on a green tax exchange. It is no wonder that economists like Eklund and others warn against green tax exchange. This is basically in danger of two things, and none of them are desirable. The first risk is that public finances are eroded and that you cannot afford the expenses you have, because you are basically taxing something that you want to disappear. As a result, the tax base and, over time, tax revenue also disappears. The second risk is, of course, that these taxes are designed in a somewhat greedy way because they are not looking for the environmental impact but for the public-financial impact. That is what has happened when the Minister of Finance has designed a series of so-called environmental taxes. For example, this has been about the chemical tax, which, of course, would have been a commendable initiative if we could have met the chemicals that we want to access. But it was known from the beginning that you don't. It was enough to read the investigation to know that the tax would not have that effect. It is therefore only a mere penalty tax for those who try to sell electronics, those who want to buy electronics and those who run companies in Sweden. However, the Minister of Finance has not been discouraged by the poor results of the chemical tax, but has moved on with new similar tax structures. It has now been suggested, for example, that we should have a tax on take away food and that we should have a tax on taking a takeaway coffee somewhere. It has been suggested that we should have a tax on shoes and that we should have a tax on clothes. We should have different tax rates on soon said everything that we buy and use in our everyday lives. Does the Minister of Finance really think it will be a better country? Is it good for Sweden to do that? Nowadays we're not going to go into a store or a shopping mall at all, but what happens when we can do it again and you're going to buy a coffee, a dish, a pair of shoes, a jacket or something else – perhaps electronics, for that matter – and everywhere at any given time are met with different tax rates? Then all these stores, retailers and manufacturers will administer the different tax rates in one way or another. Does doing so make entrepreneurship and life in Sweden better? Can the Minister of Finance here today give us a statement that we do not have tax on takeout and that we do not have tax on buying a coffee? In addition, these are sectors that are able to re-employment and recruit many people who are currently far from the labour market. Is it really a good treasure? Does the Minister of Finance think so? A tax on takeout food and on buying a coffee – is it a good tax for society? Can the Minister of Finance give a statement about the clothing tax and distance himself from the government's earlier statement that it should be introduced? Yesterday I read that the industry itself refers to the investigation, which states that 85% of the garments to be taxed do not contain the chemicals you want to access. It is therefore purely fiscal taxes, which affect the ability to run companies and live in Sweden. Can't we get a message?
i-73bb79f107d00904-272	Madam President, I would like How one looks at the taxation of environmentally hazardous activities and articles that can be used in a different way is basically about how one views climate change. The pandemic is a major crisis, but at the same time there is a climate crisis. I myself am passionate about Sweden as a country, we as a government and the Swedish parliament taking very strong measures to do what we can to stop the climate change that is currently happening. It is a matter of destiny and a great task for our generation. Then it's about working on several levels. It is about having legislation that prohibits some activities. It is about having support such as the Industrial and Climate Regions to encourage investments that reduce our emissions. It is also about tax, which is a powerful instrument away from certain activities. The plastic bag tax is a shining example of how effective a tax can be. The use of plastic bags has fallen in a way that we had not anticipated. That's why the tax revenue is going to be less than I expected. That's because the treasure is a success. There are considerably fewer plastic bags purchased. This is important, because plastic bags risk ending up in nature. Even recycled plastic bags and what you call more durable plastic bags have a very long degradation time. If they end up in nature, it's not good for nature and for animals. As far as clothing taxes are concerned, referrals have just come in. We are now analysing those answers at the Ministry of Finance.
i-73bb79f107d00904-276	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Minister mentions the climate crisis. It is important to protect the environment and the climate. But it should be done in the right way and not through symbolic measures. In recent days, Sweden has imported electricity from Poland. It's dirty coal loaded with 723 grams of carbon dioxide per kilowatt hour. This is to be compared with our usual mix of nuclear, hydro and 3 percent wind power giving a load of 71 grams. If the Minister of Finance wants to do something about the climate, she will make sure that Sweden has a safe and environmentally friendly electricity supply, so that you do not have to import dirty coal power. Now it's hot in November. I can only imagine how bad it will be when it gets really cold and when you close another reactor at the turn of the year. Back to the dress tax! I lack words to express how badly I dislike this chemical tax on clothes and shoes. This tax affects all Swedish clothing companies, whether they use dangerous chemicals or not. The investigation on which the government is based shows that 80 – 90 percent of all shoes and clothing sold in Sweden do not contain these chemicals. But the tax is to be paid by everyone. Under the proposal, companies should be able to claim 95% of the tax if they can prove that dangerous chemicals have not been used. Thus, the government first imposes a penalty tax of 5% on clothing and shoes. Then there will be administrative costs for businesses. Where is this money to be taken? For large companies, this is probably about the budget for the development of more environmentally friendly materials and more sustainable manufacturing processes. For small businesses it will mean death. Our trading companies are hard hit now during the Corona crisis. They've been deferred with payments. They've borrowed money to keep their heads above water. Now you put on such a meaningless treasure. The minister praised the plastic bag tax based on a decrease in sales of such bags. Yes, they have stopped buying the expensive eco-friendly infirmary plastic bags. Instead, you buy a roll of waste bags much cheaper. So you stand there by the band and open it and start putting the goods in environmentally dangerous plastic bags. The government is praising itself for this ingenious move. It is a question of introducing an admission tax on Ica and Konsum, as Niklas Wykman mentioned. I would advise the Minister to read the referrals from the Swedish Customs and the Swedish Tax Agency, the Ministry of Finance's own authorities. They saw the clothing and shoe tax mercilessly. You write up to the point why that treasure is harmful and dangerous.
i-73bb79f107d00904-280	Madam President, I would like Sweden has extensive problems with high unemployment and low economic growth. The question is what the Minister of Finance intends to do about this. Let us take a picture of the life of an ordinary Swedish family in the future Sweden of the Social Democrats according to the proposals that lie! You're supposed to go shopping. The car is very expensive because of the malus system. It is expensive to drive there because of very high vehicle taxes. There may be a parking space after the Green Party has pushed through its policy in this area. You go into the shops and you go shopping. You need to buy a new toaster. It's a special toaster treasure on it. You need to buy a take away coffee because you're a little tired after taking care of the kids all morning. It's a special take away coffee tax on. You're a little hungry and you want to buy a sandwich. It's another tax on when you take it with you from the store. You should then go into Ica and shop. There's a special plastic bag tax. Then you buy new clothes for the children. On those clothes, it's a special clothing tax. Then you need a new pair of shoes yourself. On them, there's a new shoe tax. Is this a rational society, Magdalena Andersson? Is that how we want Sweden to work? Magdalena Andersson tries to justify this with efforts for a better climate. Of course, we should be at the forefront when it comes to combating CO2 emissions. If we want to combat CO2 emissions, there is a very simple recipe for that. It is the construction of nuclear power so that we have a carbon-free electricity and do not have to do what Boriana Åberg has said from the speaker's seat, namely to import coal-fired electricity or other dirty electricity from other countries. Instead, we can export, get jobs and growth and also push back climate change.
i-73bb79f107d00904-289	Madam President, I would like What about a family in a social democratic society? You go to the store with hopefully an electric car or charging hybrid that you have got a big bonus to buy. It has been charged with its own solar cells. With the solar cell support received through the government, the solar cells have been put on the roof. Perhaps wind power has also been loaded. We have special support to expand wind power. If you live in a rental apartment, you may live in a rental apartment that is produced with government investment aid and therefore has a rent that ordinary employees can also pay. If you live in a million-dollar programme area, you might have had it renovated through the government's new renovation and energy efficiency support. This energy efficiency has made it possible to reduce electricity costs and heating costs and thus also to get a lower rent. Perhaps you can take an electric bus to the store via the support we have for electric vehicles. These are some examples of what life can look like for a family in a Social Democratic Sweden. But not only that. Thanks to the fact that we are not implementing all the unfunded tax cuts of the Alliance and Moderates, it is also possible to leave the children at preschool and at school in safe assurance that there is enough staff. It is known that mother or father, grandmother or grandfather in the care of the elderly are cared for by highly trained staff, permanent staff and sufficient staff. It may also be a retirement home built with the new support that the government has introduced for retirement homes. These are some examples of what life can look like with a Social Democratic government. If you buy a coffee and take it with you, instead of using our natural resources for disposable cups with plastic lids, you might choose to bring your own mug. It's better for the environment. With regard to the taxes that the government has introduced to improve our climate, we have had an important policy to ensure that we buy more environmentally friendly vehicles. We have the place bag tax to bring our bags or buy a cardboard bag instead of a plastic bag that risks being out in the wild and bad for the environment and for our animals. We also have clear tax bonuses for solar electricity, for example. We run a policy in which we try to help change our behaviour with economic instruments in order to live in a climate-smarter and more sustainable way. It is because we see that we need to change our society in order for our children and grandchildren to continue to live a good life. As far as the clothing tax is concerned, we are currently analysing the referrals received and will of course be able to return to Parliament on this issue.
i-73bb79f107d00904-297	Madam President, I would like There was no limit to the Minister's pride in his own government's policy. All good things come from the government. It is bonus to one and support to the other without reflecting a single second that in order for that money to be distributed, someone must generate it. It is the companies that do. Therefore, companies should not be burdened with unnecessary and harmful taxes. Companies also need electricity. The nice scenario with wind power and solar cells does not work now in Skåne. The nuclear power plant in Barsebäck has been shut down, and there is not enough electricity to charge all the electric cars that the government wants us to buy. Madam President, I would like The chemical tax on clothing and shoes is a freak who has inherited the least appealing qualities of his creators. The Green Party has inherited the desire to take ineffective symbolic measures in the name of the environment. From the Social Democrats it has inherited the desire to tax everything and everyone as much as possible. Don't let this freak see the light of day, Minister of Finance!
i-73bb79f107d00904-300	Madam President, I would like I'm happy to discuss climate policy with the Moderates. The only question is what is the answer of the Moderates. What we see is a moderate party that wants to back into the future. You say no to our bonus for environmental cars. They say no to the investments that are made through climate change. Instead, what is being done in its budget is one of the biggest efforts for Sweden to release more carbon dioxide. That's not the future. The future requires us to change. We will do so in such a way that all people can be part of that transition. That's why the government is investing heavily in us being able to equip our apartment buildings and in building new apartment buildings that are climate-smart but still have reasonable rents. That's why the government is investing that when we buy new cars we will buy cars for the future that we can drive with in the future, electric cars and charging hybrids. That's why the government is investing in the reduction obligation. As the years go by, more of what we think in our old petrol and diesel cars will be Swedish forest raw material instead of gasoline and diesel from the Middle East. It's the future. All of this the Moderates say no to. They say no and again no. Instead, let us lower the tax so that we release more carbon dioxide and build ourselves into old solutions. That's not the future.
i-73bb79f107d00904-305	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me how I see that future healthcare personnel are not equipped enough to work with digital ways of working, while healthcare is now rapidly digitised and Sweden's goal is to be the best in the world on eHealth in 2025. Johan Hultberg has also asked me if I am prepared to take the initiative to ensure that the health and social care programmes at university and university level provide students with sufficient knowledge and skills to be able to use digital tools in their respective future professions in a good way and meet patients, care recipients and their relatives digitally. Finally, Johan Hultberg has asked me if I see a need for some specific research efforts regarding digital care services as well as the digitalisation of care and care in general. Sweden should have a good and accessible care for everyone. Therefore, the government has invested historically high amounts in strengthening regions and municipalities. It is efforts that lead to a surplus this year. The digitalisation of society affects health care just like the rest of society, primarily for the better. The government is working to introduce a regulation of the profession of assistant nurse, and within the framework of this work, the upper secondary school's care programme has been adapted to correspond to what is proposed for the regulated profession of assistant nurse. In municipal adult education, komvux, there are proposed professional packages which also correspond to what is proposed for the regulated profession of nurse. Developing digital skills is part of the content that exists both in upper secondary school and in k omvux. At Yrkeshögskolan there are a number of educations in the field of health and social care, including education to specialist nurse. These courses also include elements that develop digital competence. I would also like to mention that the government has decided on a new medical degree. The new goals for the doctoral degree include the student showing the ability to use digital tools in healthcare as well as research and development work. The new education is planned to start autumn semester 2021. As far as the content of higher education is concerned, I would like to emphasise that the Government decides on the knowledge requirements for each degree set out in the Higher Education Ordinance. Universities and higher education institutions then decide on the design and structure of health care programmes, among other things, based on these objectives. Specific knowledge content, such as the ability to respond to patients and other groups both physically and digitally, should be accommodated within the framework of existing exam descriptions. Close collaboration between higher education institutions and health care providers is important when it comes to health care education. For example, feedback from students and caregivers can be an important basis for ensuring that the courses are relevant to the activities for which the students are trained. Digital knowledge and competences need to be developed and changed throughout working life. Employers have a responsibility to give their employees the opportunity to develop their skills in these areas. With regard to research efforts, the Government states in the budget proposal for next year that, as part of strengthening Sweden as a leading knowledge nation, the Government intends to present in the autumn of 2020 an overall bill to identify the research policy direction, which also concerns issues of higher education and innovation. Research and innovation are important for re-launching the economy and for building skills, competitiveness and well-being in the long term. D e research initiatives the government proposes will be presented in more detail in the research and innovation policy bill, which the government intends to submit later this autumn. For the government, an equal health and a well-being of high quality, accessible to all, is of paramount importance. This requires not only investments in general welfare, but also research and education efforts.
i-73bb79f107d00904-316	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister of Education, for your answer. I am extremely committed to issues related to digitalisation and, in particular, issues relating to the digitisation of health care. And that, Madam President, is not because I see digitalisation as an end in itself. This is not the case at all, it is because I am inspired by the fact that we are creating a health care that is of higher quality, that is more accessible, that offers our employees, our heroes out in care, a better working environment, that makes care more patient-proof, that allows us to take a step forward and not least that makes us in a rather challenging time able to finance our welfare. We need to offer healthcare and care in a smarter, more efficient way. When we look at the future skills needs in healthcare and care, we see that they are huge. SKR tells us that there can be as many as half a million employees as you need to recruit in the coming years, and it is hardly anyone who thinks it can be done. We're gonna have to work in other, smarter ways. We need to ensure that healthcare professionals, for example, spend more time on the direct health meetings and the valuable health contacts and less time on administration and bureaucracy. Then digitalisation is crucial. Together with SKR, the government has set up a good vision that Sweden will be the world's best country on eHealth in 2025. Unfortunately, however, there is a huge gap, Madam President, between vision and reality. ESO, among other things, has presented this in a report; it is a huge gap. Therefore, I think that politics must take a step forward, take initiatives and take a concerted approach to create all the conditions necessary for us to achieve this vision, on which we are widely agreed. But we see that there are huge concerns with outdated legislation and that patient data cannot be used in a smart way and shared between different healthcare providers. We have problems with our different IT systems speaking different languages and not being able to agree on standards. There are a wide range of technical challenges. But what is also absolutely central, Madam President, is that all the great employees in healthcare are given the opportunity to embrace digital technology and make good use of these tools. Today, unfortunately, we see many times that healthcare professionals feel that digital tools and systems are more disturbing than supportive. We can't have that. We Moderates are proposing, among other things, a special digital shift in the work environment, but I will have to include that debate with the Minister for Labour. What is also important is that those who are currently trained to become doctors, psychologists, nurses, you name it – care and care have a wide range of professions – are equipped to work with digital tools and in digital forms of work. I can't see that today. In my interpellation, I mentioned the example of the doctors, on whom we all agree, will work much more with digital consultations. They will meet patients in the digital meeting to a much greater extent. However, in medical school there is no training in this. The Minister says here that there is now a goal of this in the exam description of the new medical school. This is positive, but what about all other educations for health and nursing professions? Will the Minister take the initiative to review all exam descriptions so that digitalisation becomes an integral part of all relevant health education?
i-73bb79f107d00904-325	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Hultberg, for an important debate! Swedish healthcare should be world-class, and a prerequisite for succeeding in this mission is not only that we are able to meet and seize the opportunities that digitalisation provides for healthcare, but also that we have enough trained within our important healthcare professions. It is also, of course, necessary that the training courses provide students with relevant skills to cope with their profession when they then enter the labour market. In addition, there will be a need for further training and further training throughout life. Here, in particular, employers have a great responsibility to ensure that they give their employees this opportunity. But if you are to form and educate yourself through life, we must also ensure that there are educational places, and this government has indeed done so. There is a large expansion of training places, ranging from komvux, vocational colleges and polytechnics to higher education. We have carried out a historical expansion of the university within the framework of what we call the Knowledge Lift. We have also set up a Care Skills Council to further take responsibility for the supply of skills. It can also ensure that the interaction between actors on both the employer and the education side in the area of healthcare finds each other and can come closer together to solve what needs to be solved every day in order for us to have world-class care. Of course, just as in the rest of society, digitalisation affects care – primarily, as I said, in a positive direction, as new opportunities to meet new needs digitally. It can also complement primary care and make it available to groups that might otherwise have a high threshold for seeking care. Then it is important that all healthcare professionals, both the graduates and those who have worked for a while, have the right tools to be able to meet patients, both on-site and digitally, in order for it to work in a real and good way. As I describe here, there are digital skills in komvux and upper secondary education, which train our nurses. It is available at the university of applied sciences, for example as a specialist nurse. There is a new degree goal in the reformed medical education, which starts in autumn 2021. It is also available in nursing school. Although it is not specified in the same way as in other educations, there is also the ability to treat patients both physically and digitally. This should be included in existing exam descriptions. If you add that each higher education institution has the responsibility in dialogue with the actors to ensure that the education – not only the health education but all higher education – adapts its content to equip the students with what is required in the activities where they will then be professionals, I am convinced that our higher education institutions handle this in a wise way and ensure that the education also captures what is about the digital meeting. What is important in terms of qualification descriptions is that they have a common structure. They must be concise, concentrated and sustainable in the long term. That is why we need to have a system in which we can accommodate many different things and capture that society is actually changing. My picture is that we have that opportunity when it comes to higher education.
i-73bb79f107d00904-333	Madam President, I would like If our exam descriptions are to be sustainable in the long term, keep for the future, I think they must include digitisation, Madam President. It's obvious. We really need to point out that digitalisation is something that all health professionals must have good knowledge of. I understand, of course, and I am fully aware of the attempt to integrate knowledge about how digital tools are used in existing training courses. I think there is a great deal of commitment out there at Swedish universities and colleges to do this. Nevertheless, I am concerned that it sounds like the Minister here is leaning back a little bit. I believe that it is necessary for the Government here to take a proper initiative to ensure that all education and training really provides knowledge of how to meet patients also digitally. Sometimes I think we look a little too much at the technology and believe that if we can only handle different digital meeting forms and manage the technical part, the thing is steak. That is the simple part, Madam President. Perhaps the hard part is how to adapt a digital meeting. All of us who have been sitting in countless places over the past few months know that there will be a different dynamic. You have to make sure in a completely different way that what you say is really perceived. Digital consultation technology is not simple, but when we know that a great deal of care will be carried out in this form in the future, I think it is important to ensure that the training equips the health care staff for this too. The Government then takes up further training. I'm glad. On the part of the Moderates, we have made proposals that it needs to be compulsory to provide the staff of the care, not least doctors, with continuous training. There we see significant problems there today with employers not taking full responsibility for this. Then I think that we in the state need to tighten up the requirements for healthcare and care to really ensure that employees receive continuous training, not least in digital tools and forms of work, digital consultation technology and so on. Now the Minister mentions that the new degree of medical education adds to a digital goal. I think that a similar case would have been relevant, for example, in the psychological education or in the nursing degree. Speaking of the common structure, I think that one could look at whether one can draw impressions from how the exam descriptions have been designed when it comes to medical education. Madam President, I would like A little bit as proof that I do not really see the leadership that I think would be needed, I want to address the process behind the new medical degree. It was thanks to wise consultation bodies in the form of the Swedish Association of Health Care and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions that the digital got into the exam description. Had it not been for their referral points, I think it might not have been included. I also think this sends a signal that we are not sufficiently driven to create the conditions required, not only for digitisation but for successful digitisation where we have the technology, where we have the knowledge and where we have all the elements in place in the form of modern, relevant legislation and so on. I strongly urge the Minister to take an initiative and give a mission to ensure that all professions in the future have good knowledge of how to use digital tools and meet patients and caretakers in digital meetings.
i-73bb79f107d00904-340	Madam President, I would like I certainly do not question Johan Hultberg's commitment to this issue. Nor do I rule out the need for new initiatives. But having a commitment to the issue also requires listening to the answers given. We have set a common goal for how to tackle eHealth by 2025. The answer from me is that the specific knowledge content, i.e. the ability to respond to patients and other groups both physically and digitally, should be included within the framework of existing exam descriptions. It is an important message to Johan Hultberg and others who are involved in this issue. If we are to do what we have set ourselves to do when it comes to eHealth by 2025, this needs to be dealt with here and now. I do not rule out the possibility of taking new initiatives, but if we talk about solving this by launching a major process of updating the degree goals of all our health education programmes, we are talking about something that is very far ahead of time. For medical school this took a lot of years. This is a process that is thorough and precise, and if changes are to be made, they should really be sustainable over time. The main driving force behind the modernisation of medical education was precisely that employers such as the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, trade unions and those who worked in health care were demanding that it was time to modernise medical education. Then different governments took over time – it has been governments with different majorities behind them that have managed the changes in medical education, for it takes time – themselves to deal with this. That, I feel, is an important basis for making changes: that it is actually something that is demanded and driven by those who are trained, by the professions that exist in health care and by employers in health care. I do not rule out the need for new initiatives. However, if we are to carry out the task that we are facing and exploit the opportunity and enabler of digitalisation, it is my message that, when it comes to higher education in health care, the work must be done here and now. This is done through that the higher education institutions are the ones who design the education. There is close contact and dialogue with the actors in healthcare to ensure that the education is adapted to what is needed for students to be well equipped. This is a work that needs to be done here and now. In addition, the Government has taken the initiative for a Council of Care Competences to further improve and find opportunities for how the talks and dialogue can be conducted, so that we can have as good educational opportunities as we need to address this challenge as well. I would like to say, however, that if you have a commitment to this issue, it is also a good thing if you follow it up with some kind of funding. The Moderates' budget makes virtually no effort either in health care or in care for the elderly. Then it will be quite difficult if you are also able to cope with and manage to take responsibility for what is competence development for health professionals.
i-73bb79f107d00904-347	Madam President, I would like I can recommend s tatsrådet some weekend reading. The Moderates have more funds for health care than the government's budget bill. Then you have to invest in the right things. In the last speech by the Government, I was a little concerned about something that is often the problem when the Social Democrats are going to talk about education policy, namely that you fall back on just talking about the number of places. That was the case in the previous post. The Government devoted a great deal of its time to talking about increasing the number of training places. I welcome that, because it is necessary. As I said, we have a huge need for future employees in care and care. But we must also talk about the quality and content of education, and that is what this interpellation is aiming for. I am making a positive interpretation of what the Minister says in his last speech. Now we need to make a workshop to ensure that healthcare employees really get good knowledge and skills to work digitally. We cannot afford to wait for long, sluggish processes. That is my interpretation of it, and I welcome the fact that the government now really wants to do a workshop and ensure that. I can agree with the Government's description that we cannot afford to lose momentum here. This is central and important. My call to the government is that you really should follow up that this is done in the different health and social care educations and that you bring in people who have the ability and knowledge to work digitally today. I honestly don't think there is a teacher in medical school who has the habit of working with digital consultations. When it comes to research, it is very important that you now follow up and look at how digital healthcare works in practice, so that it also provides a good basis for developing the educations ahead. Thank you for a good debate!
i-73bb79f107d00904-353	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Hultberg, for a good debate! However, it is not possible for the Moderates to get away from the fact that if they are to improve the quality of our welfare, secure the welfare of our country as a whole and make digitalisation the enabler it can be, they need money and educational places. It is not so simple that with less money and fewer places of education, the quality of higher education can still be strengthened. The government is investing in education throughout the country and in order for digitalisation to be an asset to the well-being. Together with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, we also have a new strategy for this, Vision e-Health 2025. It's very important. The government has also, through agreements with SKR, invested specific money – 430 million to strengthen digital development in healthcare, care for the elderly and social services as early as 2020. It is part of the effort to support the transition. This is the biggest investment in eHealth ever. I have here informed you that there is a very good job – from Komvux, polytechnics and higher education to medical education. It is a good, solid and structured work to ensure that our students from those educations can also bring these abilities to work. It's not all in place. We need to continue to intensify our work. There is such a commitment in the government, and there is also funding and training places as well as Vision e-Health in 2025.
i-73bb79f107d00904-357	Madam President, I would like Sara Gille has asked me whether I and the government intend to introduce recurring national statistics on honour-related violence and oppression. Today, some statistics on genital mutilation are available in the National Patient Register and national criminal statistics on certain crimes typically related to honour. The Government has recently decided to support the Foundation General Barnhuset's work on a new national mapping of violence against children. The survey contains questions about serious limitations in young people's lives, such as the possibility of choosing one's own future partner. However, this is far from sufficient. The extent of honour-related violence and oppression in Sweden must be assessed more reliably over time. The Government therefore intends to establish a permanent national centre of competence against honour-related violence and repression at the County Administrative Board of Östergötland County. It should be part of the Centre's work to regularly examine the extent of this violence and oppression.
i-73bb79f107d00904-361	Madam President, I would like The government claims that a great deal is being done now, but what you do is just start looking at the statistics. It scratches the surface, but it does absolutely nothing to prevent honour-related violence and repression from continuing. Honour-related violence and repression cover so many more areas than just genital mutilation. These include child marriages, forced marriages, children and young people being taken abroad, gross physical violence, sexual violence, serious psychological violence and threats, including death threats, and extensive control over and limitations in the everyday and life of the victim. It is also about the consequences of genital mutilation and about concerns about someone being genitally stymied. These are, above all, girls and young women who are subject to different types of control, restrictions and violence. They are often subjected to several perpetrators, such as parents, siblings, and other relatives. It can also be a person who practices violence while others in the environment support or allow it to happen. We can discuss the veil. It represents oppression of women. And we can go to ourselves now during the Corona period and think about how hard it can be to wear masks. Imagine a lifetime hidden behind the veil! Madam President, I would like The current government has had a long time to introduce recurring national statistics on honour-related violence and oppression, an area that is not really new in Sweden. It is remarkable that the government is not already collecting statistics from helplines, which is something that, among other things, the Barnafrid Knowledge Centre has requested. It is important to implement a recurring national statistics on honour-related violence and oppression in order to make it easier for us to see and understand how many children and young people live in vulnerability but also to be able to follow individual cases and be able to help where it is needed. We must also be able to prevent and combat men's violence against women. It is clear that the statistics will not give a complete picture and that the numbers of darkness will be enormous, but they will give an overall picture of the extent of honour-related violence and repression of various kinds in our municipalities and regions and throughout the country. Madam President, I would like I find it embarrassing that the Government and the Government have not woken up, and I wonder why. On 21 October 2020, Minister for Gender Equality Åsa Lindhagen participated in SVT, where she announced that 100 000 young people would be affected by honour-related violence and oppression in Sweden today. However, a review shows that this figure comes from an investigation carried out in 2014 and is therefore six years old. Is it the case that the hard-to-reach statistics may be due to the government wanting to hide a bad development?
i-73bb79f107d00904-369	Madam President, I would like I think it's a little awkward. I have also previously stood here in the speaker's chair and received so unbelievably few answers to what the Swedish Democrats want to do to combat honour-related violence and repression. I think we should talk about what to do about the problem, and that's where I think we should focus. The MP is now using a number from a magazine article from 2017. The newspaper article has tried to make an estimate of vulnerability based on a 2008 survey, so it is even further back in time. It is not scientists who have appreciated it, but it is an appreciation that the newspaper has tried to do. I think it does not really matter so much that the Member of Parliament has used older figures. In fact, we do not know how many people are exposed to honour-related violence and oppression in Sweden. There are estimates, but we don't know enough. We need more statistics. The Government, in cooperation with the Center Party and the Liberals, has announced a national centre of competence against honour-related violence and repression, and their work should include conducting regular investigations into the extent of honor-related violence and repression. Making such estimates is also a task of the Social Welfare Boards. When I was a municipal politician, I initiated a survey, because I thought statistics were important. However, it is important to remember that we do not need statistics to know that we are going to act. We know that we have problems with honour-related violence and oppression. We know that there is an estimate of 100,000 young people. There may be many more who are vulnerable. What I think is important and that I want people to understand when I talk about these issues is that it is not just a small group of young people who are vulnerable. We are talking about a very large group of young people in Sweden who are exposed to this oppression. There are estimates that every third girl with a foreign background is subjected to honour-related violence and oppression, which is, of course, totally unacceptable. To get into what I think we should talk about, namely what we should do about this, we were in the past on child marriage. On 1 July this year, we tightened the legislation against child marriage, and it was indeed about time. If it's about a child and a marriage, it's a crime if the child gets married away – end of story! We have also introduced the possibility of an exit ban and of not issuing passports. After all, this is also about protecting children who are taken out of the country either for genital mutilation or for being married away. We must do what we can to prevent the children from being taken out of the country at all. We have also tightened up the penalties: if there are honorary motives, there is a penalty base. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also received resources to help children who have still been taken abroad to come home. We also need to do more there. We have sent money to municipalities and regions to work on these issues. We need to work with knowledge efforts and get better at and gain more knowledge in society about this problem. We will now establish a permanent national centre of competence against honour-related violence and repression at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland, which I am extremely pleased about. We also need to work more with the root of the problem, i.e. honorary standards. Today, we do not know enough about how to do it. How can we combat these standards and ensure that girls and boys do not suffer this oppression? All children have rights. There are no exceptions. We must do more in Sweden to protect children but also women who are subjected to honour-related violence and oppression. All people should have the power to control their own lives.
i-73bb79f107d00904-381	Madam President, I would like What the government says here sounds great, but it's not enough. It's not enough. With strong immigration in the last five years, there has been a marked increase in the pressure of honour in society, especially among those with an immigrant background. But oppression is also among the second and third generation immigrants who embrace the culture of honor. Given that this is not something new in society, I find it remarkable that the Government says that it does not know enough. The government has been in power since 2014 without doing anything, or enough, about honour-related violence and oppression. Even though they claim to be a feminist government, they have chosen to look away, while girls have been prevented from associating with anyone they want. Girls have been denied schooling. Girls have been denied gymnastics education. Girls have been denied swimming lessons. Girls have been denied sex skills. Girls have been checked to the limit. Girls have been genitally grafted. Girls have been forced to wear a veil. Girls have been forced to hide their bodies. Girls have been taken abroad against their will. Girls have been subjected to severe violence. Girls have been forced to marry. Girls have even been thrown off balconies. Madam President, I would like This list can be made of any length, while almost no one is held accountable and the government is paralysed. The number sentenced can be counted on the fingers of a sawmill worker. The number expelled is non-existent. The penalty is too low. Oppression of girls and women should generate considerably tougher penalties. The fact that no statistics are reported in principle makes it difficult to get a picture of the situation. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Minister Lindhagen if she believes that the government's actions have been sufficient, and whether she is really satisfied with the developments.
i-73bb79f107d00904-388	Madam President, I would like I don't think there's going to be a serious conversation here. I hear the honourable Member say that the government has done nothing, which is quite wrong. Do I think we've done enough? No, I don't think so. I think we need to do more to protect children, girls and women in this society. I will never stand in the speaker's seat and say that I am satisfied. It is long-term work, and it is quite clear that we are not able today to protect children. We need to do more, and that is why, among other things, we have tightened the penalties. I have just listed a number of things that we have done, some of the many measures that the government has taken. I can only say once again, and this is not the first time that I have been standing here in the speaker's chair and stating this, that the Swedish Democrats are not saying a word about what you want to do. I get a whole, long list of what honor-related violence and oppression is and about vulnerability, and that vulnerability we need to talk about. We need to talk about what it looks like for young people in our society. But then it is actually the case that in politics we also have a responsibility to come up with solutions, to say what to do about it. That is why, I think, as we go into politics: because we are passionate about changing society and seeing how we can constantly take steps forward to make society better for the people who are outside these walls. That is our responsibility in politics. We will come up with proposals and push for improvements. We should not only say that we have problems but also talk about what we should do about those problems. Therefore, my question is back to the Member of Parliament: what proposals do you have to better support those girls and boys who are victims of honour-related violence and oppression? How are we going to combat this violence in depth?
i-73bb79f107d00904-394	Madam President, I would like The Government asks what we in the Swedish Democrats want to do to combat honour-related violence and oppression. She'd love to read our committee motion as we've written about it. As early as 2009, the National Youth Board's report showed that 70 000 young people in Sweden were not allowed to choose their own partner. What did the government do? Did they get to the problem? Did they solve it? Were statistics kept so that progress could be monitored? No, instead the lid was put on. Although it was known that the situation was bad in Sweden already in 2009, the government at the time tried to hide everything. Instead, they chose to sacrifice the vulnerable girls. The current government took office in 2014, and even though it has been in office for six years, it has not done enough. Mantrat seems to be that it would all be darkened and that no one would know how bad it really was. Therefore, there were never recurring statistics, and there are still very few effective measures. There is no public, reliable statistics, and government representatives continue, as Madam President here herself can hear, to bury everything in beautiful rhetoric and promises of improvements that will never come. Madam President, I would like Is it not the case that the long handling time and the evasive proposals can be attributed to the sacrifice of these girls because their oppressors are voting cattle for the Social Democrats and the government therefore does not want to scare away its core voters by remedying the problems? Now Åsa Lindhagen in her last post will surely say a lot of things. I distance myself from anything she might say about me and my party.
i-73bb79f107d00904-400	Madam President, I would like I do not know if the Member of Parliament has missed the fact that there was a minister in the then government in 2009 and the term of office before my party entered the government, namely Nyamko Sabuni, with a very strong commitment to issues of honour-related violence and repression. She has really pushed the issues forward. I would nevertheless like to say, although my own party was not part of that government, that there is a great deal of commitment on these issues in many parties, and that is a positive thing. Nevertheless, there is increasing pressure to move forward on the issues. The issue is that we must do more for the vulnerable, and I see a great deal of commitment to those issues in several parties – including in that government. I also think that in politics we have generally reacted too late, could have done more at an earlier stage, and there is still a lot to be done here and now before we reach the goal. Every child in Sweden will grow up in security and freedom and have the power to decide over their life – not least as an adult to be able to choose what I want to study, who I want to marry, if I want to marry – and govern their own life. We're not there today. There's still a lot to do. Once again, I do not get any proposals from the Swedish Democrats on what to do. It is, however, our core task in politics. We may find different solutions and ways forward. Sometimes we feel the same between the parties. But it is our core task to chisel out what steps we should take forward and then try to push them through in the way we can, based on the roles we have and on the position our parties are in. It's our responsibility.
i-73bb79f107d00904-404	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaverh has asked me whether I and the government will take steps to stop tax funds for communities and organisations that uphold and legitimise virginity and other standards of honour. Let me first make it clear that no state funds should go to religious communities or other organisations that promote standards of honour. Here we are in complete agreement. According to the current legal framework, the Swedish Agency for Support to Faith Communities, SST, has the possibility to decide that a grant granted will not be paid out, or that a grant already paid will be repaid if it can be assumed that the grant has been awarded due to incorrect information. The Authority shall also maintain an ongoing dialogue with the eligible communities on the conditions for the support. In the case of the People and Faith radio programme, SST has initiated a review of the community concerned. It is essential that a community of faith that does not respect the fundamental values of society, such as the equal value of all people, including equality, and democratic governance, should not be financed by public funds. In 2016, the Government appointed an investigation to review the legislation on support for religious communities. In particular, the study was given the task of establishing a democratic condition for state support to the communities of faith which is compatible with the form of government, the European Convention, the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and other international commitments, and which is so practical that it allows for a follow-up to the aid. The investigation was concluded in 2018, and the report has been referred. Work is now under way within the Government Office to produce a legislative referral. The aim is for new legislation to be in place during its term of office. It is therefore too early for me to comment on how such a future democracy condition will be formulated. However, it goes without saying to me that the condition of democracy is made clear so that religious communities that promote standards of honour are excluded from being able to receive state aid.
i-73bb79f107d00904-409	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister for Culture Amanda Lind for her answer. It is a good thing that the Minister for Culture agrees with me that the democratic condition for support to religious communities must be clarified in order to exclude faiths that promote honorary standards from being able to receive state aid. The inquiry into a new democracy condition was already presented during the last parliamentary term, but the government has not yet sent a legislative proposal for a legislative referral. I very much hope that it will be in place for this term of office. This week we were able to hear on the news that the government wants to set up another investigation linked to the processing of personal data. Yesterday, Thursday, the investigation was to be presented, but we haven't seen anything on the Department of Culture's website. When's it coming? It is, of course, a good thing that the Swedish Agency for Support for Religious Society, SST, has begun a review of the Mandeian faith community after the report in Swedish Radio People and Faith. To be honest, the Authority has never been able to comply with existing laws. The question now arises as to whether the agency will really succeed in its democratic mission, that is, not to allocate state and municipal funds to religious communities and associations which, in principle, maintain honorary standards and work with subversive activities. This is not the first time we have discussed these issues in this House. For example, in the network I have been involved in since 2008, we have invited the former Director-General of the SST and representatives of the religious communities and discussed the non-existent democratic conditions. For example, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Iran can be discussed. SST collaborates with organisations and associations, such as Imam Ali Islamic Center in Järfälla together with the Swedish Muslim Federation. They are supported by the murderers of the Iranian regime; there are hate sermons, and gender apartheid is maintained and other things that are terrible and are not part of our democracy. It is the discussions between us MPs that have contributed to Ulf Bjereld's investigation being held with the government and waiting to be presented to the Riksdag. The question is whether an authority is appropriate to enforce the democratic conditions that already exist but which are not practised. Should such an authority be needed? The issue has been discussed. Is SST needed?
i-73bb79f107d00904-416	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank Amineh Kakabaveh for raising the issue in Parliament. That is an urgent matter. In addition to working with legislation and working to support our authorities, we also need to discuss in the public debate what values should prevail in our society. Honour-related violence, repression and controls of innocence, referred to here by Amineh Kakabaveh, are totally unacceptable and illegal. It must be prosecuted in many ways. Let me start with the Democracy Condition Investigation. It was one of the investigations I took over the baton for when I took office as Minister of Democracy. For me, it has been important that we have to get the strengthened, clarified and long-term democracy conditions in place. As Amineh Kakabaveh says, democracy conditions already exist today. It is already possible for public authorities, SST and other contributing authorities, to withdraw support if they are found to have gone to organisations that should not have them because they do not share the fundamental values of society. In addition to the investigations that have been set up and are currently under preparation, the government has carried out a number of other strengthening measures. Among other things, we have strengthened the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society, MUCF. We have provided additional funds to enable them to develop and tighten up their controls and follow-ups. I see it as a way to expose abuses but also to support civil society in doing the right thing and doing that development work. As far as the investigations are concerned, there are three that have been going on. They are about support for the religions, about democracy conditions for the General Heritage Fund and now, most recently, about democracy conditions for contributions to civil society. Late in the preparation of the latter investigation, it emerged that we need to look at the issue of confidentiality and personal data. Basically, it is about the fact that the strengthened democracy condition also makes clearer demands on the representatives. This puts us in a position where contributing organisations and authorities may need to handle sensitive personal data. Of course, I find it frustrating that the preparation is running out of time. At the same time, it is important when we have the legislation in place that it can be applied effectively. The government set up this investigation two weeks ago, so it's already done. I will now ensure that work is done as quickly as possible so that we can present the proposal before the end of the term of office, because that is important. Then I do not rule out that we may have to take further steps to support our authorities and the contributing organisations in their practical application. Having said that, I would like to sum up. This is important work, where we need to work on several fronts. I know that the other week Amineh Kakabaveh had an interpellation debate with Minister Lena Hallengren on this issue. That shows the complexity. We need to do what we can from different levels of government and from different parts of society to counteract these expressions, which do not belong in our society. Finally, I would like to say that I am very keen that both the contributing authorities and the laws and rules we have are clear and clear that public support should not go to organisations that in various ways encourage or accept the repression of honour. It is horrible, and it should not occur in our society.
i-73bb79f107d00904-425	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Culture, for the clarity! Of course, these questions are complicated. It must also be stressed that the secular rule of law of Sweden is the only country in Europe that provides state aid for people to believe in the god they want. I have very great respect for everyone's faith. But, to be honest, why should we not only contribute to segregation but ensure that one can receive state subsidies based on religious affiliation? In many cases, these state subsidies go to communities where we know that there is a romanticisation of jihad, recruitment of jihadists and standards of honour and innocence. In Kalla fakta 2015 we heard imamer say that you should not report when women, for example, are abused, that the man has the right to beat with an open hand and so on. There are plenty of examples from the media and from various surveys. Yet, unfortunately, I do not see anything about this in any contributing authorities – except in MUCF, which has succeeded very well. They follow the conditions of democracy and have actually stopped tax funds for Sweden's young Muslims because of what we are talking about. I would have liked, and it should be self-evident, that it was on the home page of the Ministry of Culture: tax funds should not go to any association, any community or anyone who engages in subversive activities of democracy or who oppress women, homosexuals or other groups. Sometimes you don't just need to make laws. This should be a matter of course in the heart of democracy, in Sweden, which defends both the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on Women, Gender Equality, the rights of homosexuals and other minorities and, to a great extent, the rights of women. But these communities, schools and religious associations unfortunately maintain a thousand-year tradition and culture that does not belong in Sweden. In Sweden, you can read, during the 60's, 70's and 80's they talked about democratisation of culture. It's supposed to breathe democracy. There should be completely different aspects of democracy, not religion or strong patriarchal cultures and traditions. Here we have a problem in our democracy. We're supposed to have laws, but who's going to follow them if the authorities don't? So far, unfortunately, we have not succeeded – except for MUCF, where those on whom the Minister of Culture was concerned have worked hard to maintain our democracy. They didn't have to have this law in place. But now it exists, and it should also be for SST. I also think that Anders Ygeman, who said this in a radio interview in May 2018: – – – – Because during the time they have existed they have not withdrawn contributions, or have continued to make contributions to activities that have not passed basic democratic criteria. .....................................................
i-73bb79f107d00904-435	Madam President, I would like As I said, democracy conditions already exist. SST already has the possibility to request additional examination if it is suspected that there are irregularities and to both suspend and freeze the payment of grants. It is important, and as I said in the interpellation response, I know that a review of the relevant religious community has been initiated. But there is a reason why we set up these investigations, and that is that there is a need to clarify this – clarify its application, tighten it up in some parts and make it uniform. There have been different wordings linked to the different contributing authorities, and I find that unfortunate. On the other hand, I am not prepared to go as far as Amineh Kakabaveh advocates. We should not throw the baby out with the bathwater and put away the legs for all support, whether it is in faith or to the rest of civil society. The reason why we have the support for the faiths in Sweden – to the eligible religions, let me say; not everyone receives state support – is basically to enable people to practice their religion and have religious freedom in reality, so that it is not only the largest communities that are able to operate in a reasonable manner. I think it is important that we have religious communities in Sweden. It means a lot to a lot of people. I think it is important that we have a living and strong civil society. But then it is absolutely crucial that the subsidies do not go wrong. It risks undermining the legitimacy of civil society as a whole and of all state aid to religious communities or civil society. This is an important reason to ensure that there are clear democratic conditions, that there is knowledge within authorities and contributing organisations, and that there is a clear desire from public funds policy. As I said, we have carried out a number of different actions and supported authorities during this period. As the interpellier says, audits have been carried out and grants withdrawn on the basis of existing legislation. But I look forward to getting the clarified democracy conditions in place. As I said, I also do not exclude that we may need to do additional things to support the actors working on these issues. When I talk to civil society, with religions and others, I notice that there is a strong commitment. They want to ensure that the actors who misbehave are not actually receiving subsidies, and that commitment is something that is widely shared.
i-73bb79f107d00904-442	Madam President, I would like I just want to correct Amanda Lind. I have not said that we should not give support to civil society. I want to stop all means of both civil society and religious communities that maintain subversive activities and do not respect our fundamental principles of democracy and human rights, homosexual rights and women's rights, and in many cases contribute to anti-Semitism and all that we have heard about. That is why these investigations also exist, thanks to the work that many of us have been doing for many years. Democracy is of course important, but it is also important that democracy is not used for its own purposes. Above all, other states, such as Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Iran, have now gained ground here in Sweden and are using our freedom and democracy to achieve their political and religious ends. This is not about civil society, but about politics and religion used by politicians. For example, they know that if a community has tens of thousands of members, it gets more money. What do you do with a lot of new arrivals? Many, of course, seek security. I also sought security when I arrived in this country. It should not be religion that is the first home but Swedish society, with open arms, integration and other things. I believe that there is not only one danger with this, but also many other things. I wonder what the Minister for Culture thinks – should we have SST or can this responsibility be placed on, for example, MUCF or Kammarkollegiet? I am very afraid that democracy will not be maintained.
i-73bb79f107d00904-446	Madam President, I would like I have full confidence in SST. A review of the current community of faith has now also been launched, and the instruments to be used are based on the current conditions of democracy. But with that said, we need to constantly see what we can do further in order to tighten up the work against honour-related violence and repression and also, of course, organisations and activities that do not stand up for the democratic values of society. I think it is very important that we get the clarified democracy condition in place. I am not ruling out further efforts. The investigation on which the proposal for a democracy clause is based raises problems with issues of honour. I see that this investigation provides a good basis for moving forward with clear legislation, which states that honour-related violence and repression, just as violence, coercion or threat to a person, should be incompatible with state aid. This applies regardless of whether the attack is directed at someone within the faith community or outside it. I would also like to say that the government has taken several steps to counter honour-related violence and repression, and we need to do this broadly – tighten up legislation and increase education. This is also something that our contributing authorities need to contribute to ensuring that these phenomena are seriously and concretely suppressed. Then it should always be clear that government, public funds should never go to organisations that promote honorary repression or other anti-democratic or extremist views.
