i-7ddc3e10390625d9-2	Madam President, I would like Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me if I intend to act so that no polygamy can occur in Sweden. Sara Gille has asked me how to act to completely prevent polygamy in Sweden. The marriage represents a view of marriage that is incompatible with an equal society. That is why we have strict regulation on polygamy in Sweden. It is not allowed to enter into polygamy here, nor is it possible for people related to Sweden, through citizenship or domicile, to circumvent the Swedish rules by entering into polygamy in another country and then get it recognized here. It is also the case that the possibility of obtaining a residence permit on the basis of a connection to a person who is already married to someone here in Sweden is extremely limited. Although we all share the point of departure that polygamy is not desirable in our modern and equal society, it must be clear to us that these are complex issues. Therefore, a special investigator was commissioned in the summer of 2018 to consider how it can be prevented that foreign polygamy consists in Sweden. The assignment also included explaining the legal consequences of a foreign polygamy not being allowed to last in Sweden. This may, for example, involve a lost right to inheritance or division of property. This second part of the mission is important if you are serious about protecting and protecting women's rights. The investigator presented his report earlier this year. It is proposed that the prohibition of recognition should be comprehensive by removing the requirement of affiliation. Therefore, foreign polygamy should not be recognised here, regardless of the parties' previous connection to Sweden. At the same time, the investigator proposes that a valve should be available for use if there are exceptional reasons. The valve is an exception in order to avoid in individual cases that parties, not least women, suffer unreasonable consequences. According to the investigator, it may, for example, be that the man owned all the property and that his spouse would be severely affected by the fact that rules on division, maintenance and inheritance have no effect. There could then be some scope for granting the marriage legal effects in the context of, for example, an inheritance dispute. So the intention is not that polygamy as such should be allowed to persist. The investigator's assessment is that the valve is also needed to meet our international obligations, including under the European Convention on Human Rights. The investigator has considered different options for the implementation of the new rules. She has stayed by suggesting that, as usual, they should apply to marriages concluded after their entry into force. The report has been referred, and the proposals are now being prepared in the Government Office. The government has acted, and we will continue to act against polygamy. I welcome a broad political commitment to this.
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-11	Madam President, I would like I thank Morgan Johansson for his answer. We heard many beautiful words, but with quite little content if you can see what was actually said. Morgan Johansson concludes by welcoming a broad political consensus on this, but the truth is that there is no such thing, at least not if there is a broad political consensus that polygamy should not occur at all in Sweden. As far as I know, it is only my own party, and possibly the Christian Democrats, who want to see a Sweden without polygamy. It is only we who have been clear that we want a final date for the dissolution of polygamy. The investigation Morgan Johansson is talking about was heavily tied up. Only proposals aimed at ensuring that foreign polygamy would not last in Sweden were the mission. Nothing was directed against all the polygamy that already exists in Sweden. So there were also watered-down proposals that did not stop any of the current polygamy. Moreover, if you are going to go on the main proposal in the investigation, it will only stop the polygamy that has been added after the date on which this law will eventually enter into force. In practice, this would mean that someone could come here in ten years' time and claim that they were married before this law came into force, and then this person would be able to maintain his polygamy in Sweden. It is always referred to that it would be retroactive legislation in case a change would be made that also applied back in time. But here we have to distinguish between civil law and criminal law. In criminal law, we do not have retroactive legislation because we do not want to punish anyone for something that was legal when it was done. But now it is not about punishing people but about releasing people from marriages that have been made in a way that we would never accept in Sweden. In civil law, retroactive legislation is constantly implemented. Those who, for example, started a company or got married in the 1950s cannot use the laws and regulations that applied in the 1950s, but can beautifully find their way into today's laws and regulations. I see polygamy as ongoing abuse. I find it difficult to understand why we should not act harder against these ongoing abuses. Why was the investigation not commissioned to produce a proposal to end the already registered polygamy in Sweden? It had been the most natural thing, and the government had a long time to prepare what this investigation would look like. The truth is that the government was opposed to effective legislation and the establishment of an investigation as soon as possible. It was only when the civil committee tried to put in an investigation into polygamy in the Child Marriage investigation that the government felt obliged to do something. Heléne Fritzon then initiated a survey to map how many polygamy existed in Sweden. However, no mapping of unofficial polygamy was carried out. I want to remember that all parties except mine were called to Morgan Johansson when it came to adding the polygamy to the Child Marriage investigation. Not being called me, I don't see it as very worrying, because I hadn't changed my mind. I already thought that we should investigate it as quickly as possible and ban all polygamy in Sweden.
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-21	Madam President, I would like The government is right in one thing he says: The marriage is not compatible with an equal society. At the same time, it sounds bad because the Government is sitting in a government that claims to stand up for women's rights but does not. We have a society where abuse of women has become a daily life, where women do not dare to go out in the evenings and where girls and women are married off against their own will – all under the rule of our so-called feminist regime. Multiple marriages exist exclusively in strongly patriarchal legal systems. The man is the one allowed to marry several women, and the women are forced to submit. It is not compatible with the gender equality ambitions we have in Sweden or the public policy of our legal order. Polygamy has negative consequences for women, and children, in several ways. Women in polygamous marriages are subordinate to their husbands and have less control over the family's development. They are also more likely to suffer from low self-esteem and depression. The Government says that it is not allowed to enter into polygamy in Sweden, but, Madam President, that is not the problem. The problem is that people who are already married to several people come here and get the marriage approved here. These are people who come to Sweden without any connection to Sweden or Swedish citizenship. The government's system also means that those living in polygamy receive more benefits than those who do not because they are considered single. One example is Nackaman, who was married to two women and received benefits for both wives. Feminists in the Swedish government and parliament must put an end to this and put their foot down against all forms of honorary oppression and publicly funded harem in Sweden.
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-28	Madam President, I would like First, you have to be clear about what applies and has been valid for a long time in Sweden. It is forbidden to enter into polygamy in Sweden, and it has always been as far as I know. It occurs in some other countries and has been doing so for a long time. It exists in the Middle East and Africa, but there are also examples in the United States, where Mormons in particular have practiced it. It is not only forbidden to enter into polygamy in Sweden, but it is also prohibited for a person resident in Sweden to go abroad to enter polygamy. This is based on our view that it is an old and patriarchal view that has no place in an equal society. The question is, as I said, how to deal with the cases where people who have been polygamy in other countries come here. The investigation proposal that is now on the table means that foreign polygamy should not be approved in Sweden. It is clear that way. At the same time, it is necessary to look after the best interests of women in these situations. If a marriage is not recognised, it has legal and economic consequences for the women involved. They lose their succession rights and their rights in the event of division of property. It could be a matter of losing maintenance rights. We are talking about people who may have been married for 30 years and have children in common. When marriage is not recognised in Sweden, it can have such economic consequences. There must therefore be some kind of valve that enables these women, even if marriage itself is not recognised, to assert their economic rights in relation to the man even after they come to Sweden. That is exactly how the proposal is designed. It is simply a matter of ensuring that women are given some kind of right in relation to the man they can claim in the event of an inheritance dispute or division of property. As regards retroactivity, the investigation states that this should apply to marriages concluded after the entry into force of the legislation. An almost unanimous committee has said that it will apply from the moment that it has come to Sweden. This has now been referred, and we will make assessments on the basis of the referral points. Our ambition, of course, is to meet the committee. Then there are many details that need to be resolved gradually. I am not going to go into them now, but one way or another to meet the committee in that part is our absolute ambition. We are planning a legislative referral in the spring of 2021. I note that the Swedish Democrats talk a lot about polygamy and how this goes against our fundamental values. Of course, that is the case, but the problem for your Swedish democrats is that your commitment to these women is not genuine—it is false. What you really want to do with these women and families is to deport them to their homelands. That is the whole thrust of your policy: return and deportation. So when you talk about how important it is to protect and assert these values, I cannot release myself from the notion that you really don't care very much about what happens to these women. The important thing is not to stop polygamy, but the important thing is that it does not occur in Sweden. I would like to ask the Swedish Democrats: if you really care about these women, why do you want to deport them and their men to their home countries?
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-36	Madam President, I would like If we start with Morgan Johansson's final question that we would like to deport people to their countries of origin, that is not really true. We have nowhere proposed that the penalty for polygamy should be the deportation of women. We have said, however, that we should not accept polygamy in Sweden, and in fact I think that Morgan and I agree that this would be a good starting point. I thank Morgan Johansson in particular for noting that he intends to meet with the Committee on Civil Liberties at least in terms of counting the date on which the law will be added as the date on which you come here instead of when you are married. Then we will avoid the fact that you can come here in ten years' time and claim that you have entered into the marriage before the law came into force. However, I am a little more sceptical about the claim that it is forbidden to enter into polygamy in Sweden. This ban applies only to Swedes or people with Swedish connections. I believe that three people from Iran, for example, could marry in Sweden and get it counted in Iran without the risk of being punished by Swedish laws. There is no law in itself that punishes those who enter this marriage. So you can enter into a marriage in Sweden and get it counted in another country. As far as I know, we do not have a ban on this, but the ban is aimed solely at the Swedish population or those who have a Swedish connection. How common is polygamy in Sweden, if you count everyone who is forgotten in the legislation? The latest figure I know is from November 2019. At the time, there were a total of 625 registered polygamy in the population register. Of these, 328 people had emigrated from Sweden. In round rolls, there were 300 polygamy, which means about 1 000 adults when each polygamy is made up of at least three people. Added to this are affected children. Some polygamy has probably been added after this date. There were between 10 and 42 persons or polygamy each year from 2014 to 2017. In 2014, 16 polygamous marriages were registered, in 2015 it was 17, in 2016 it was 42 and in 2017 10 polygamous marriages were registered. What it looks like later I do not know, but these were the figures that were produced in connection with the investigation where I myself was in the reference group. So it was an average of just over 20 per year. Perhaps it should be said that some at closer control turned out to be people who did not actually live in polygamy. It is estimated that about half were real polygamous marriages, in which case it would be just over ten a year. There are therefore 30 people who are affected. What I think concerns Morgan Johansson most is his cooperation parties. Both the Liberals and the Center Party have a much looser view of polygamy than I think the Social Democrats have expressed, not least the Migration Party's Migration Speaker Jonny Cato, who last year in an interview in Expressen said he sees both the advantages and disadvantages of polygamy. It can't be easy for Morgan Johansson to put those opinions together with the opinions he, hopefully, has.
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-43	Madam President, I would like Morgan Johansson talks about the Swedish democrats' commitment to these women not being genuine. I myself am a woman with roots in the Middle East. Nearly 50 countries, mainly in the Middle East and Africa, allow polygamy. At the same time, these nations are at the bottom when equality is ranked globally. According to Islamic religious law, a man may be married to four wives at the same time, but sharia forbids women to take several spouses. These women never say yes to each other, nor do they say that they are married to each other. They consider themselves married to only the man. This is a formal error compared to our Western way of looking at marriage, where all marriages should be voluntary and where you should be able to say yes to the one you marry. Not being able to decide who to marry is absurd. To be forced to marry someone you do not have feelings for or have not even met can never be a good marriage for the woman. It will be a marriage where the woman then gets to serve her husband, stand in the bedroom whenever he wants and have children for him, where everything revolves around the man and where the woman is seen more as a slave than his wife and there every day, every day is about meeting the man's needs. It should be self-evident that these medieval customs do not belong in today's Sweden. At the same time, there are several hundred polygamy in the country in which our so-called feminist government governs. We live in the 21st century and not in the Middle Ages. It is very good that the government at least proposes tightening up. That's great. Unfortunately, however, it is not enough. I don't understand why our government can't stand up for these women for real and help them for real. To say one thing is very different from actually doing something. Although the government has been in power for so many years, it has not taken enough measures to stop all polygamy in Sweden. The marriage, like the marriage of children, is contrary to the fundamental principles of the Swedish legal system and to our western view of marriage. It is striking that polygamy should be allowed to persist only because it has been concluded abroad and before a certain date.
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-49	Madam President, I would like The investigation proposal precisely means that foreign polygamy should not be approved here. That is exactly what we intend to proceed with. But what we are discussing is the entry into force rules and how many are to be covered. I have said today that I am, of course, prepared to look at how the committee has looked at the retroactivity itself and is prepared to meet the committee in this part. We in the government have still not set our foot on how to resolve these detailed issues. But we will do so in the spring, and I look forward to presenting legislative proposals to Parliament. When it comes to the figures that Mikael Eskilandersson uses, you should know that there are major sources of error in them. For example, these statistics record that women have entered into polygamy with a number of men, which we all understand is not quite true in the vast majority of cases. It is a question of women being registered as married to persons who have not since been found and who may actually be dead or still be in their country of origin, where there are no registered divorces. There are therefore major sources of error in these statistics. This doesn't really matter. What is important is that we ensure that we have legislation that clearly states that we do not recognise polygamy in Sweden. I believe that this is a gender equality issue, and we fully agree that this should not occur in Sweden. What I cannot understand is how the Swedish Democrats, while claiming that they want to fight for these women, conduct a policy of deporting them together with their men back to their home countries. Then Mikael Eskilandersson says that the Swedish Democrats do not want that at all. But, my God, it is enough to read an optional speech by Jimmie Åkesson. What is the main point of the Swedish democrats' policy in the area of migration right now? It's re-migration and deportation. It is to try to send out the people who are already in Sweden. That is the whole basis of the policy of the Swedish Democrats. I say that these women, because they have a residence permit in Sweden, have a chance to break out of these patriarchal structures. If the Swedish Democrats had been given the power, these women would never have had a chance to live in Sweden at all. Then they would have been sent back. So the Swedish democrats cannot stand on the one hand and say that you want to try to take responsibility for these women and protect them and, on the other hand, when there is another audience, stand and say: We will send out as many immigrants as we can only out of Sweden. I can't. It may be that your commitment is genuine, I do not know, but I say that the commitment of the Swedish democrats to this issue is not genuine. It's fake. You want to send these women back with their husbands to the home countries. I think you should answer for that. The very fact that they have had the opportunity to come to a modern and equal country and have been granted a residence permit here enables them to live a more free and equal life and break out of these old patriarchal structures. I am basically very proud of that. This enables them to live a much better life than they could otherwise have. But do not send them back to their homelands! Again, my question is: if you really feel for these women, why do you want to deport them with your men back to their countries of origin?
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-59	Madam President, I would like I shall begin with Morgan Johansson's final question. I don't quite understand what you mean by us deporting these women. I do not even know how many of those who are Swedish citizens today. What I know from the statistics available is that already in the 1960s there were people who came here and were married to several people, i.e. polygamous marriages were registered already in the 1960s. It can then be assumed that these people are quite established in Swedish society and probably also Swedish citizens. Of course, we should not throw anyone out because this person is married to several people. However, I would like us never to accept that we have polygamy in Sweden. That's a completely different thing. Migration and return policies should not be confused with family justice policies. The government would like to claim that it is doing everything it can to prevent polygamy in Sweden. But the truth is that the government wants to preserve all the polygamy that already exists and that new ones should be able to come to the date that the new law may apply. All of this is to keep the cooperation parties happy. It is more important that it is calm in government support than standing up for the women who are actually affected in Sweden today. As long as these women are in Sweden, I think it is my responsibility and our responsibility as politicians in the Swedish Parliament to actually stand up for them. The fact that we are happy to talk about the rules in Sweden and not all of the world is because it is in Sweden that we have the opportunity to decide and that it is in Sweden that we can influence and prevent the polygamy from continuing to exist. The marriage has not been a common sight in Swedish society before. They have become so recently because of the policy for which the Social Democrats may actually have the greatest responsibility.
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-62	I would remind you that all Members speak through the President.
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-63	Madam President, I would like The government claims to act. But we see clearly that it is not enough. The Social Democratic Government has now been in power since 2014. One can hope that before 2014 the Social Democrats were against polygamy. But despite more than six years of hard work, no proposal has yet been made that would prevent all polygamy in Sweden. Madam President, I would like If we are to be really honest, we have not yet seen a bill, because it is all just an investigation. In our version for the future, there is no polygamy in Sweden. What exactly does the vision of the Social Democrats for Sweden look like?
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-66	Madam President, I would like The proposal means that no polytoxins should be authorised here. I intend to present this to Parliament in the next spring as well. But what I'm pointing out is that when Sara Gille says she doesn't want any polygamy here, she really means she doesn't want these women and these families here. The same applies to Mikael Eskilandersson. If the Swedish Democrats had been allowed to decide, these women would never have been granted a residence permit. And if Jimmie Åkesson and SD now decide, we will see a large-scale deportation and expulsion of large groups of immigrants in Sweden. It is the fundamental policy that the Swedish Democrats are responsible for, i.e. deportation. Sara Gille is asking me about our vision. The vision is, of course, that the women who have now arrived and who may be in these oppressive structures should be able to break out of these oppressive structures and have all the support and help of society to do so, including through such legislation but also in many other ways. But you don't help them by throwing them out of the country. In fact, the Swedish democrats will have to answer the question: how do you really view this? Should these women have been granted a residence permit here at all, or is your basic idea that they are actually going back to their oppressive structures in the Middle East, in Africa or what we are talking about? If you really want something good and something good, make sure to fight for their right to actually be able to remain in Sweden so that they can break out of these structures. Don't throw them out! The problem for the Swedish Democrats is that this is their main message. We shall proceed with this legislation. And I have said that we are, of course, prepared to meet with Parliament on the details. We should not have this kind of recognition in Sweden.
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-71	Madam President, I would like Désirée Pethrus has asked me whether I and the government, via the UN, will work towards the resumption of the protection of Dr Mukwege and whether I and the government will work through the UN to update the recommendations of the 2010 survey. The activities of Dr. Mukwege and his colleagues at Panzi Hospital are of great importance and must be maintained. The threats to his death are deeply worrying, and it is important that they are investigated and that the guilty are held to account. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Embassy of Kinshasa are closely following the situation and are actively involved in local discussions, including with the UN Secretary-General's Special Representative, and the Head of the MONUSCO peacekeeping mission, in order to find a constructive solution and guarantee his security. Monusco has now also strengthened the protection of the hospital, including Dr. Mukwege's residence and office. It may also be noted that on residence Tshisekedi has condemned the threats, requested that they be investigated and assured that measures should be taken to ensure that Dr. Mukwege is protected. The report presented by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights in 2010 identifies serious crimes. Sweden takes the data provided in the survey very seriously. The report, together with other UN reports, has been important for the work on human rights and against impunity in the DRK. The human rights situation in the DRK is kept up-to-date, inter alia, by regularly addressing it in the UN Human Rights Council, for example through a resolution that is negotiated annually and which calls on the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights to report to the Council. In this context, Sweden is actively working to highlight the serious human rights situation, not least in terms of sexual and gender-based violence, and the importance of accountability. Human rights issues, including the widespread impunity, are also regularly addressed in the talks of the Government and the Embassy with Congolese representatives and other key actors. In addition, human rights and democracy are a priority area within the framework of our bilateral assistance. The government takes a very serious view of the human rights situation in the DRK. Sweden will therefore continue to be a strong player in achieving improvements and thus contribute to a positive development in the country.
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-76	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister for Foreign Affairs. I am convinced that we agree that Dr Mukwege's work, life and personal protection are important, but I am still not quite satisfied. I had two questions: one concerning the personal protection of Dr Mukwege, and the other was about the UN report and how to get the measures proposed in it really in place. At the end of August, UN Human Rights Commissioner Michelle Bachelet warned that Dr Mukwege, who received the Nobel Peace Prize 2018, could be in danger of life. This was after he and his family received several death threats via phone and social media. Not everyone may be familiar with Mukwege's work, but he is chief surgeon and gynecologist at the now world-famous Panzi Hospital in Bukavu, Eastern DR Congo. The hospital has specialized in operating and caring for women who have been victims of sexual abuse. He has also been open to criticising violence against women and other human rights violations in the Democratic Republic of Congo. We know that mineral handling in this part of Congo gives rise to various militia groups that protect the business and smuggle products further. Among these militiamen are many young men who, with weapons in hand, carry out violence not only against other men but also against women, then in the form of terrible rapes. Dr. Mukwege has testified on this. He has thus spoken out about this, and he has also highlighted the UN report released in 2010. It is about the abuses committed in the country during the period 1998-2003, under the special circumstances that prevailed at the time – abuses that, unfortunately, continue. But nothing really happened to this report. The Swedish Government has been in the United Nations Security Council, and I am thinking a little bit about what the Foreign Minister has actually done to influence in the Security Council – or otherwise – so that the International Tribunal will be opened and started. It would make sense to address impunity and all the human rights violations that have taken place. It has been threatening, and Dr. Mukwege's personal protection disappeared for a while. Now it has resumed through Monusco, a peacekeeping force in eastern Congo. What was the focus of my question, however, was how the long-term protection of Dr. Mukwege goes about. Can the Foreign Minister say anything about that? As I said, I have also asked whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs will work to bring up to date the recommendations of the 2010 UN report on the abuses in Congo. After all, the government has made a big deal out of being a feminist government, and in its foreign policy it has launched something called a democracy offensive. It would therefore be useful if the Foreign Minister could say how the democratic offensive pursued by the Foreign Minister will affect the situation of women in Congo and whether it will help to ensure that the UN report is actually taken seriously.
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-83	Madam President, I would like Thank you for addressing these important issues, Désirée Pethrus, and above all for bringing the important work of Dr Mukwege to light! We've both met him, and it's a fantastic job he's doing. If we start with the UN report that was presented, there are a number of different recommendations there. These recommendations are regularly addressed in the framework of, inter alia, the UN Human Rights Council. If there are concrete proposals for follow-up to the various reports, the government will take a position on them as and when. As Mrs Pethrus says, the report revealed serious violations of human rights and international humanitarian law. What came up there, along with other reports, has been important for the work on human rights and against impunity in the DRK, and in the whole region, carried out by both the government and other governments. The armed conflict in the eastern part of the DRK in particular is complex, both in terms of the actors involved and in terms of the cause. Violence dates back several decades and has escalated in several ways; according to several reports, there are more than 140 armed groups active today. They are fighting against each other as well as against the national security forces and against Monusco. In North Kivu and South Sydkivu – where the Panzi hospital, which Dr. Mukwege works at, is located – there are regular encounters. Not often it has a regional connection, and often it also attacks civilians. However, since President Tshisekedi took office, relations with neighbouring countries have improved. The Panzi hospital serves as a general local hospital, and it is primarily known for the work of women and children who have been subjected to violence. Swedish aid supported the construction of the hospital; we financed it through Sida and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs with over SEK 17 million. Over 85 000 women have been treated at the hospital for, among other things, complications resulting from rape and childbirth. I would say that this is one of the most important voices in the world in the fight against sexual violence. It is, of course, part of the feminist foreign policy to pay attention to this and to highlight Dr Mukwege's work and to raise the SRHR issues constantly in the UN, i.e. issues of sexual and reproductive health and rights. It is positive that Monusco has now strengthened the protection of the Panzi hospital. However, the needs are very great, and Monusco's resources are limited. The mandate includes the protection of civilian and humanitarian actors and human rights defenders. In addition, discussions are now under way on how to phase out this effort in order to obtain more civil components. It is therefore essential that we, together with national authorities, find a long-term sustainable solution to ensure the protection of the Panzi hospital and of Dr Mukwege. It is the national authorities that have the primary responsibility for protection, but both Sweden and other countries participate in the discussion on how to solve this in the long term.
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-89	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. I think we agree on the importance of the fact that there is a change. As the Foreign Minister says, this conflict has been going on for decades, and the Foreign Minister himself says that violence has escalated. We don't see any improvement. Nor do we see any improvement in the situation of vulnerable women. I read somewhere that millions of people have died of hardship or conflict in this part. The question then is what is being done to put an end to this situation. The government itself has not been very active on the issue of tax evasion, for example, in the part dealing with mineral management, where we know that very many large multinational companies are involved. Unfortunately, the government has said no to the European Commission's proposal to stop tax evasion. I very much question the fact that the government cannot act more actively. This is also something that Dr Mukwege is pushing – one has to do something about mineral handling, because that is one of the causes of this whole conflict. I read a 2011 research report from the American Public Health Association saying that 48 women an hour are raped in the Democratic Republic of Congo. The international community has completely failed to protect the civilian victims of this conflict. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, over 50 000 people have been cared for at Panzi Hospital. The problem is that many are alienated from their families and have no opportunity to make a living after that. He works at the hospital with a holistic vision. He helps them get a job and has a very good business, also with various courses for lawyers and doctors. He has received very many different prizes, such as the Sakharov Prize from the European Parliament. He has been awarded prizes and hailed by the UN and the EU, and he has been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. Yet, he continues to fight to get resources to his hospital. I have stood here before with a former Foreign Minister and said that there must be a more permanent situation for the financing of the hospital. I believe that what he wants above all at the moment is to ensure that his family and himself are safe and that the entire operation of the Panzi hospital is secured. It is also extremely important that this UN report is actually implemented. So many decades have passed now that nothing has really improved. If violence escalates, what is missing? Yes, it is that you dare to look at the mineral handling and all the rebel groups and the other countries – the surrounding countries – that are acting. Sweden, for example, is still providing assistance to Rwanda despite the fact that we know that the regime is in and is taking minerals from Congo. You take money from the people who could live in one of the richest countries in the world because of all the country's minerals. At the same time, we know that today it is one of the poorest and most dangerous countries in the world to live in. I think that the Foreign Minister must be able to say more about what she is doing today to ensure that there is a concrete change.
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-99	Madam President, I would like The human rights situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo, or the DRK, is indeed very serious. A major problem is the widespread corruption and the lack of capacity in the rule of law. There is impunity and legal uncertainty, and there are limited conditions for demanding responsibility. There are also extrajudicial executions and arbitrary detentions, and sexual violence is, as I have said, very extensive. I am very concerned about the systematic violations of international humanitarian law and human rights. There are also massacres of civilians, torture, forced recruitment – including of children – of armed groups and mass kidnappings. Besides, rapes happen all the time. The issue of minerals and blood minerals is one of the issues where Sweden has been leading. As Minister for Trade, I worked very much on this, and our current Minister for Trade is also working very much on this issue. We are a very active and committed player in the DRK, not least with regard to human rights and democracy issues. Our Drive for Democracy democracy campaign is run by all our foreign authorities, depending on what works best in the different countries and depending on the problems that exist in the different countries. In DRK, this is not least about the issue of women's democratic influence. We are working on the issues included in the 2010 survey that Mrs Pethrus raised, and we are addressing this in various international contexts. In fact, we are one of the world's five largest bilateral donors. It is just to be proud of what we are doing there, although, of course, we had hoped that many countries would do even more. We contribute 345 million in long-term aid through the UN and other international partners. We also have a clear gender perspective; as I said, we are a feminist government with a feminist foreign policy. In this context, the situation of women and girls in the context of feminist foreign policy must be looked at in particular. In order to strengthen human rights, the UN Integrated MR Office in the DRK plays an important role in documenting violations and driving public opinion. Sweden supports their work and has, among other things, made possible a specific service with a focus on combating conflict-related sexual violence. In addition, we have a collaboration with the UN Food Programme. We have ensured that 1.5 million young people have been reached by the message of so-called exual and reproductive health and rights and of gender-based violence. In cooperation with UNICEF, we have also contributed to strengthening local mechanisms for conflict resolution. We also participate in order to have a reformed legal sector and support for independent media.
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-108	Madam President, I would like I understand that the Foreign Minister sees many of the problems. She highlights mass kidnappings and massacres, and this is, of course, a terrible situation for the people living in this region. At the same time, I cannot help but feel that there is more to the relief of symptoms in one of the efforts being made. They try to alleviate the symptoms, but they have never really got to the bottom of the disease and tried to find the reason why this whole region is really in trouble. If we do not get to impunity and dare to go on leaders who are responsible, we have not got anywhere. I have not heard the Minister for Foreign Affairs say anything about us acting to actually make the leaders in the DRC responsible, but also those in its vicinity. I believe, as I said, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs would like to do something. But it does not feel like feminist politics has had an impact when the Foreign Minister is still talking about mass kidnappings and massacres and violence against women who continue. It does not feel like a democracy offensive is under way, that it is something that the government is pushing, because democracy has not won in Eastern Congo and not in the whole of the DRK. I therefore believe that we must continue to push forward on this issue. And I hope that the Foreign Minister will act more forcefully at international level in order to really get to the root of this conflict and that people are being subjected as they do today.
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-112	Madam President, I would like It is a bit of a pity that Mrs Pethrus has not heard that I have mentioned discharge and the rule of law, because I have mentioned it in all my speeches so far. I would therefore like to refer to it one more time. Sweden is making a major contribution to the reform of the legal sector, including through organisations that train prosecutors, police officers, human rights defenders and judges to ensure that more people who commit crimes are actually held accountable for their actions. So that there is no doubt about this, I have now repeated it for the third time. Madam President, I would like Dr Mukwege and his colleagues at Panzi Hospital are doing a very important job, not least in terms of the support given to survivors of sexual violence. It is positive that Monusco has strengthened the protection of the hospital, although a long-term sustainable solution must be developed together with national authorities. DRK is a country with major security, human rights and humanitarian challenges. Sustainable solutions require that the root causes of the recurrent conflicts and humanitarian crises be addressed. Sweden is a strong and committed player and wants to bring about change. As I said, we are one of the five largest donors in the world to Congo and also one of the largest bilateral humanitarian donors. In addition, we are actively promoting a change in the situation in the country, including many of the issues raised in the 2010 UN survey. Of course, the issue of human rights is also regularly raised in talks with Congolese representatives and other actors, including Dr Mukwege himself.
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-118	Madam President, I would like Lars Adaktusson has asked me if the government believes that the EU's distinction between the political and military arm of Hizbollah is still relevant and whether Sweden will work to ensure that the EU's Terrorist Class, Hizbollah as a whole, is in place. Sweden has no national sanctions but complies with the sanctions decided by the EU or the UN. The military branch of Hizbollah has been listed under the EU's terrorist sanctions since July 2013 (Common Position 2001/931). These sanctions include a freeze of assets and a ban on the provision of funds. The list of persons, groups and entities is reviewed on a regular basis. The inclusion of a person, group or entity on the list requires unanimity in the EU. The issue of extending the list of Hizbollah has been discussed on several occasions within the EU. No extension of the list is currently pending. At the same time, the EU fully agrees that the sanctions in force against the organisation must be maintained and fully implemented. As Mr Hizbollah has done, not least in connection with the heinous attack on Israeli tourists in Bulgaria in 2012, there is no doubt as to what kind of organisation we are dealing with. The organisation's military activity is a threat to stability in Lebanon. Recently, for example, the UN Special Envoy in the International Tribunal for Lebanon stated that persons associated with the armed arm of Hizbollah were responsible for the assassination of former Lebanon's Prime Minister, Rafiq Hariri, 2005. Hezbollah is also a negative force in the region, not least through its participation in the Syria conflict, its support for the Asad regime and attacks and threats against Israel. Sweden, of course, continues to stand up for Israel's legitimate security needs. It is undeniable that Hizbollah has engaged in acts of combat and terror as part of his armed struggle. The EU and the outside world have condemned this violence. Our condemnation of Hizbollah does not stand in the way of the prospect of peaceful and stable development in Lebanon. Even before the explosion in Beirut's port in August, the country was wrestling with a deep political, economic and financial crisis. The consequences for the population are very severe. The poverty rate has doubled in one year, the lira has lost 80 percent of its value and it is predicted minus 25 percent growth in the next two years. In addition, there is an alarming spread of covid-19 and, of course, the enormous challenge it poses for Lebanon to host almost two million refugees from the Syrian war and from Palestine. These challenges are the focus of the Government's and the EU's Lebanon policy. The overall EU position is that it is important for stability, both in Lebanon and in the region, and for our ability to contribute to this stability that communication channels are kept open to key political actors and government members. A fundamental principle of the EU sanction policy is that the sanctioning instrument should be part of an all-embracing policy that includes political dialogue and other tools available. Regardless of what we think of Hizbollah as an organisation, it is a fact that it is a key political player in Lebanon. Hezbollah has broad support in large parts of the population, has been in the Lebanese Parliament since 1992, has been a member of several of the country's governments since 2012 and has consistently had good results in local elections. We need to be able to maintain contacts and engage in dialogue with all political representatives in Lebanon, including elected representatives of the Hezbollah party.
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-124	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking you for the answer to the interpellation. When the Foreign Minister says that Hizbollah is a negative force in the Middle East, there are many of us who agree. It is important that this is said. Words make a difference if they are followed by action. Unfortunately, the will for action seems to be lacking on the part of the government in this particular case. Defining Hizbollah as a whole as a terrorist organisation is clearly not relevant for the government. Madam President, I would like Common to the definitions used today in the field of terrorism is that they aim at acts aimed at creating terror, carried out to achieve an ideological objective and deliberately disregard the safety of innocent civilians. In no way can it be argued that Hizbollah falls outside these criteria. Hizbollah is by definition a terrorist organisation founded to militaryly destroy Israel. That is the stated purpose. That is why we are now seeing an increasing number of democracies, through national decisions, defining Hizbollah in its entirety as a terrorist organisation. This has happened in the United States, Canada, Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and, quite recently, Lithuania. More countries are reported to be heading in the same direction, including Austria and Switzerland. The British took the decision on terror stamping in February 2019, which means, among other things, that people who are subsequently members of or support Hizbollah are at risk of being sentenced to ten years in prison. The British Minister for the Interior says that there is no distinction between a military and a political branch of Hizbollah, as the EU does – it is a constructed distinction. The fact that the movement is to be seen as a cohesive entity is also underlined by Hizbollah's own representatives. Mr Naim Qassem, Deputy Secretary-General of Hizbollah, has said in this way: we have no military or political wing. We don't have Hizbollah on the one hand and the Resistance on the other. Every element of Hizbollah, ranging from the military commanders to the members and our collective resources, is in the service of resistance. Nothing but resistance is our priority. Ann Linde! Why close your eyes to reality? Why maintain the distinction between a political and a military branch when even the leadership of Hizbollah denies such a division?
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-130	Madam President, I would like A fundamental principle of the EU sanction policy is that the sanctioning instrument should be part of an all-embracing policy that includes political dialogue and other tools available. Whatever we think of Hizbollah as an organisation, it is a fact that they are a key political player in Lebanon. Hizbollah has broad support in large parts of the population. They have been in Parliament since 1992 and in various governments since 2012. They get regular good results in the local elections. Both local and national elections in which Hizbollah has been successful have been described as legitimate by international judges. Hezbollah will very likely also be part of the new government that is now being negotiated in the wake of the explosion in the port of Beirut. Unlike other Shiite parties in the country, such as the Amal Party, Hizbollah has support from Shiites in many different parts of the country – in southern Lebanon, in Beirut, in the Bekaa Valley, and in Hermel in the northeast. As unfortunate as it may be from our point of view, Hizbollah is simply part of Lebanon's political mosaic. We and the European Union have therefore made the assessment that we should not close the door to dialogue. However, this does not mean that we have an uncritical attitude towards Hizbollah. Sweden's condemnation of Hizbollah's terrorist act is unequivocal. As a participant in Lebanon's political system, the organisation also has an obvious part to play in the corruption and mismanagement that made the port explosion possible in August and is responsible for the ongoing economic crisis in the country. We and the world around us have been clear about what expectations there are. UN Security Resolutions 1559 and 1701 demand the disarmament of indigenous militias, that is, Hizbullah, but also of Drusian and Christian militias. This requirement is not fulfilled today. On the contrary, Hizbullah continues to try to expand his arsenal. The role of Hizbollah in the Syria conflict is in direct conflict with Lebanon's so-called disassociation policy, through which a role in regional conflicts has been removed. Sweden and the EU are strongly critical of these trends, and we are also saying this to the organisation's representatives. The issue of extending the listing of Hizbollah has been discussed on several occasions within the EU, and the overall picture is that such listing is not currently up to date. The government and the EU should also be able to engage in dialogue with actors whose practices are reprehensible. This is, moreover, an attitude which also seems to be shared by the countries raised by the questioner. The decisions taken in Germany and Lithuania are primarily based on the domestic management of Hizbollah. On the other hand, they have not signalled any intention of trying to change the EU's list. At least in the German case, there also seems to be an ambition to maintain dialogue with the organisation in the field.
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-135	Madam President, I would like What we have just heard does not contribute to the clarity that should be self-evident in terms of the position of the government on such an important issue. There is no division between a military and a political branch. Hizbullah is a unified Shia-Muslim resistance movement that murders civilians and threatens to wipe out Israel. It should be a definite conclusion to treat the whole organisation as the despicable terrorist organisation it actually is. Madam President, I would like Since the founding of Hizbullah in the early 1980s, the organisation has been involved in foreign acts of terror, but also in bloody battles in Syria and in dangerous destabilisation of the entire Middle East. Despite the representation in Lebanon's parliament, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs is talking about, Hizbollah is directly linked to the dictatorship of Iran – religiously, politically and economically. Sometimes it is said that the fragile balance of power in Lebanon and the link with Iran make the world's relationship with Hizbollah a complicated issue. The Secretary of State is on this. But it's nothing but a trail of havoc. For over 40 years, the Iranian regime has oppressed its own population and executed innocent people. At the same time, the Revolutionary Guard of the Islamic Republic has murdered and destroyed in severely tormented neighbouring countries such as Syria, Yemen and Iraq. Around this, Ann Linde, it is necessary to be clear. It also does so about the fact that Iran is the world's largest financier of international terrorism. The ayatollahs in Tehran, for example, have armed Hizbollah to an extent that long ago should have made the outside world rise. An arsenal of 130 000 missiles is now aimed at Israel. Development of own precision controlled ammunition is ongoing. This means that Hizbollah, with the help of Iran, can threaten the entire Jewish state. Madam President, I would like Without seeing the reality as it is, without seeing the connections, we run the risk of one day having to say that the disaster is a fact. Hizbullah is a terrorist organization. Iran is governed by a terrorist regime. Does the Foreign Minister share the deep concern that far more than the Christian Democrats feel about this?
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-141	Madam President, I would like Is it really possible to talk about a military and a political branch of Hizbollah? Hizbollah has broad support in large parts of the population. It is represented in the Lebanese Parliament and has been a member of several governments. For example, they had the post of Minister of Health in the last government, and they are likely to participate in the new government that is coming. The leader of Hizbollah, Sheikh Nasrallah, has expressed that Hizbollah's armed and political struggle is two sides of the same coin. He is also said to be the mastermind behind the organization's so-called twin-track approach. This means that, in parallel with the military struggle, it will increase its social and political commitment. The armed struggle against Israel has been central to Hizbollah ever since its formation. That is something we strongly condemn. The main military friction area since Israel withdrew from Lebanon in 2000 is now the so-called Shebaa yards annexed by Israel from Syria in 1981. Whether it is possible to separate the military branch from the political work is to some extent an academic question. Some assessors point to the similarities with the debate on the IRA and Sinn Fein to illustrate that the movement houses both more violent and constructive elements. Clearly, Hizbollah's social activities contribute to the organization's popularity among the population. Madam President, I would like It is true that a number of countries in Europe have a different approach to Hizbollah. Serbia and Kosovo announced their new position on the state visit to Washington DC a few weeks ago. Within the EU, Lithuania has recently taken a national decision to impose an entry ban on persons with Hizbullahan ties. Germany's Ministry of the Interior has also prohibited the organisation from operating in Germany. But neither Lithuania nor Germany is currently pushing the issue of extending the EU list in Brussels. On the contrary, it has been explicitly stated from the German side that this is a national decision that should not prevent their contact with Hizbollah in the field. When the EU Foreign Ministers spoke about Lebanon in the context of the Foreign Affairs Council meeting on 21 September, there were also no votes in favour of a broader list of the organisation. Instead, the focus was on expressing the EU's support for the Lebanese population and pushing for the formation of a government that can urgently take on the reforms needed to reverse developments in the country. The EU's approach remains that a possible dialogue and political representatives are needed in order for a functioning government to be in place and to be able to respond to the wide-ranging challenges facing the country.
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-149	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Foreign Affairs has stayed in the debate on this subject with sanctions. It is like talking about sanctions against Al Qaeda or sanctions against the Islamic State. These are terrorist organisations we are talking about. They shall be prohibited. The supporters are terrorists. They will be sentenced and imprisoned. Sanctions, Ann Linde, are not the answer to the international terrorism that fundamentally threatens democracy and the open society that we are defending. Last summer, in July, Hizbollah's leader, Hassan Nasrallah, warned that Israel could be wiped out in a war between Iran and the United States. Mr Nasrallah referred, among other things, to the advanced weapons available to Hizbollah in Lebanon. There is no doubt that the declared objective of Hizbollah and other terrorist organisations is to wipe out Israel. That threat is real. The EU, as well as the governments of the Member States, should stand on Israel's side in the fight against terrorism and do everything possible to eliminate the existential threat to the Jewish people. The classification of Hizbollah as a whole is an important step in that particular direction. For the Christian Democrats, it is a matter of course to support this. It is part of the international fight against terrorism. Madam President, I would like I had hoped that in this discussion the Foreign Minister would express a similar view. That's not what happened. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you for the debate.
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-154	Madam President, I would like The EU and Sweden have made it clear that we will act vigorously against all manifestations of violence. I have no other opinion than that of the interpeller to condemn completely the unacceptable terrorist attacks, the threats of violence and the use of force against the State of Israel. We stand up for Israel's absolutely legitimate security needs. There's no difference there. The sanctions imposed by the EU today are a signal that they are acceptable to Hizbollah only to choose a different path and to participate in politics on the same premises as other parties in Lebanon without using violence or military violence. The EU's assessment is that listing the political branch of Hizbollah would risk, on the contrary, increasing legitimacy and popular support among Lebanon's Shia Muslims. Instead, in order to promote a more democratic, equal and stable Lebanon, the focus should be on promoting functioning social services, stable economy, freedom from corruption and a way out of the sectarian political system, which will be a brake on real change in the country. These are also the issues highlighted by the popular protests that have flared up in the country in recent years. Thank you, Lars Adaktusson, for the interpellation!
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-157	Madam President, I would like Lars Adaktusson has asked me whether I am going to take any action in view of the fact that Ahmadreza Djalali has now been brought before an Iranian prosecutor, whether I will take any action in relation to Djalalis's serious health and the pronounced risk of illness in c ovid-19 and how I will otherwise act in the Djalali case. Furthermore, Lars Adaktusson has asked me whether I will take any initiative to contact the countries that have offered to raise the matter with the Iranian regime. I would like to begin by emphasising the seriousness with which I and the government view the case of Ahmadreza Djalalis. Undoubtedly, his situation remains very serious, and our efforts for him continue unabated. Ahmadreza Djalali has lived and worked in several countries in his profession, in emergency medicine, and I can see that there is interest and commitment in his case also in these countries, among others. Sweden is calling for the death sentence against Ahmadreza Djalali not to be enforced, and we, together with the rest of the EU, have protested against the death penalty on repeated occasions. The EU is a driving force in the fight against the death penalty, and Sweden is an active part of this work. In our contacts with representatives of Iran, we also highlight concerns about Ahmadreza Djalalis's state of health, and we stress the importance of giving him the care he needs. In accordance with the rights deriving from the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, we constantly request – also at a high level – that consular visits be made to Ahmadreza Djalali. Iran, however, has chosen not to meet us, and it has not granted permission for visits on the grounds that it considers Ahmadreza Djalali to be only Iranian citizens. This, too, is something I and the government take very seriously, and we do not share that picture. In connection with the outbreak of c ovid-19, a large number of prisoners were released in Iran. In connection with the fact that information on these releases reached us, we also travelled the case of Ahmadreza Djalalis and re-emphasised his health situation. However, this happened without our hearing. The government's vote is clear in its demands towards Iran, and we will not give up our consular efforts for Ahmadreza Djalali. In his interpellation, Lars Adaktusson also mentions a meeting at the Swedish Embassy in Tehran recently, where Ahmadreza Djalalis's lawyer, but not Djalalis's sister, was admitted. I would like to inform you that, due to the difficult situation of c ovid-19 in Iran, it has been decided to reduce the number of visits to the embassy, i.e. to protect both visitors and the staff of the embassy. Anyone who intends to visit the embassy is always informed of these rules in advance. As before, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs in Stockholm is in close contact with Ahmadreza Djalalis's wife vida Mehrannia. The embassy in Tehran is in contact with Ahmadreza Djalalis legal representative and Djalalis in Iran's dependents.
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-166	Madam President, I would like Initially, I would like to thank you for the answer to my questions about this deeply tragic case. I share the view that the situation of Ahmadreza Djalali is deeply serious. His state of health has recently deteriorated. At the same time, I note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not answer the questions in the interpellation, for example about what measures have been taken by Sweden in view of the deteriorating health situation and about contacts have been made with the countries that have offered to help bring up the Djalali case with the Iranian regime. Hopefully we will find answers to those questions later in the debate. Madam President, I would like It is true that there is a great interest and commitment in Djalali's fate beyond Sweden's borders, as Ann Linde points out. Several independent UN experts, Amnesty International, the European Parliament, 135 Nobel laureates, colleagues at Karolinska Institutet in Stockholm – all believe from various reviews that Djalali is innocent and as a result must be released immediately. What is called a presumption of innocence, the central principle of law which states that an accused person should be regarded as innocent until proven guilty, must of course be fundamental also in the handling of consular matters by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. It is therefore remarkable, Madam President, that in his public statements on Djalali, the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not demand his immediate release. As in other contexts, Ann Linde says in her reply to my interpellation that a death sentence against Ahmadreza Djalali is not enforced in Sweden. But there is no requirement for release. This, of course, raises questions. It is noted among the human rights organisations and representatives of other countries involved in the case. In all probability, it is also noted in Tehran – unfortunately. Only recently, Ahmadreza Djalali was brought before a prosecutor. The Foreign Minister mentioned this. In threatening terms it was announced that his time is soon up and that the action from Sweden indicates that no one seriously cares about his case. It was positively stated that the execution of the death penalty would lead to Swedish criticism but that it would soon blow over. So, Madam President, there is a rogue regime whose utter contempt for truth, humanity and human dignity permeate everything it does. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister how she views the Iranian regime's actions in this case. And why does Ann Linde not state any public demand for an immediate release of the Swedish citizen Djalali?
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-174	Madam President, I would like The human rights situation in Iran remains serious. I would like to address some aspects of the situation in Iran and what the Swedish Government thinks about it. Let me start with Ahmadreza Djalalis's situation. The government's vote is very clear in its demands towards Iran. We demand that his death sentence not be carried out. This is also something I have personally mentioned in my contacts with my counterpart, Minister of Foreign Affairs Zarif. The widespread application of the death penalty in Iran, including in the case of minors, is very worrying. Sweden's position on the death penalty is well known. It is an inhuman, cruel and irreversible punishment that is contrary to human rights. We condemn the application of the death penalty in all its forms. Sweden has also been clear about how seriously we view the data on the high death rates in connection with the demonstrations in Iran in late autumn 2019. I myself have clearly condemned the violence inflicted on demonstrators during the demonstrations and have stressed the importance of respect for human rights in Iran, including freedom of expression, assembly and association. I also recently drew attention to a report published by Amnesty International on 2 September on human rights violations following the demonstrations in Iran in November 2019. Here I expressed the government's support for a full investigation of the report's data. The Swedish Government will continue to have a frank bilateral dialogue with Iranian representatives on these issues. The clear Swedish line is sometimes presented only directly to Iran and sometimes, when it is judged to be beneficial, also in public. I expressed on social media on 14 September my dismay at the execution of the wrestler Navid Afkari. Before that, 9 September, Sweden, through our MR Ambassador Annika Ben David, announced the demand that Navid Akkari's death sentence should not be enforced. We also work actively within the EU and the UN. Within the EU, which is united on the issue of the death penalty, Sweden is contributing to joint statements. The EU condemned the execution of Afkari in a statement on 14 September. Sweden also participates in courting the Iranian authorities, often in support of individual prisoners sentenced to death. This has also happened in the case of Ahmadreza Djalali. This joint action gives added weight. I would like to point out here that we are obviously consulting with other countries in Djalalis's case, although I cannot go into more detail with which countries this is happening. In November 2019 Iran was re-examined in the UN Universal Periodic Review. This time, Sweden made recommendations to Iran on the abolition of the death penalty, full access to the Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in Iran and protection of human rights defenders. Within the UN, Sweden is also active through the EU in negotiating an annual resolution on the human rights situation in Iran. The government continues to promote respect for human rights in Iran, both bilaterally and in multilateral fora, using a wide range of instruments. Of course, our efforts for Ahmadreza Djalali continue unabated.
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-184	Madam President, I would like This debate is, of course, about a consular matter between Sweden and Iran. But it is above all a tragedy for an innocently convicted 49-year-old Swedish citizen and his family – his wife vida and two children who have been living in constant concern for their father since 2016. The Foreign Minister confirms that the case is being taken very seriously, that great efforts are being made and that Djalalis's situation is being addressed directly with the Iranian regime when the opportunity arises. This is, of course, welcomed by all those involved in the case. But even what is not done, Ann Linde, must be able to be discussed, especially in the current situation. Why is immediate release not required? Why are the United States, Belgium and Switzerland not contacted, the countries that Djalalis's lawyer has offered to help? Why does the same lawyer get the message from the Swedish Embassy in Tehran that there is nothing more to do in the case of Djalali, when the Ministry for Foreign Affairs here at home says something completely different? These and other questions need to be answered in order to give Ahmadreza Djalali and his relatives hope, but also in order for the public to have confidence in the authority responsible for what is done – and for what is not done. Please answer the questions, Ann Linde!
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-189	Madam President, I would like Our efforts for Ahmadreza Djalali continue unabated. We continuously raise his case with high-level representatives of Iran both in Stockholm and Tehran. I myself have raised the case of my Iranian counterpart, Secretary of State Zarif, on several occasions. In the contacts, we demand that the penalty be changed. We also highlight Ahmadreza Djalali's worrying state of health and stress the importance of receiving the care he needs. As Lars Adaktusson knows, Sweden's position on the death penalty is very well known. Sweden and the EU condemn the use of the death penalty in all its forms. An intensive work is being done for Ahmadreza Djalali both in Stockholm and at the Embassy in Tehran. We remain in close and continuous contact with representatives of Iran. In these contacts, we express with emphas Sweden and the rest of the EU's view of the death penalty and that Djalali's death penalty should be transformed. Through our embassy in Tehran, we participate in joint EU démarches to the Iranian Foreign Ministry's judicial system. The latest EU démarche in the case also addressed the worrying information on Ahmadreza Djalali's state of health.
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-192	Madam President, I would like It is good and should be welcomed that Sweden is at the forefront in the fight against the death penalty. This applies in every context and everywhere, wherever it happens in the world. But quiet diplomacy, evasive responses and discreet contacts have their time and place in dealing with difficult consular matters. The problem is that in the case of Djalali that stage has passed. He himself, as well as his next of kin, warns that the situation is urgent. Time is running out, Ann Linde. For this reason, the Swedish Government's message to the Iranian regime must be made clear and tightened up substantially. Normal relations and continued diplomatic relations with a dictatorship regime that refuses to release an innocent and seriously ill Swedish citizen is an impossibility. Continued Swedish support for the important international nuclear agreement JCPOA should also be an impossibility in this situation. This is the kind of information that must be communicated to the Tehran regime. I hope that the government is willing to act in this way before it is too late.
i-7ddc3e10390625d9-196	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Adaktusson, for the interpellation on this important issue! Sweden's position on human rights, democracy and the rule of law is clear, and we present it regularly and publicly in our relations with Iran. Our view of the human rights situation in Iran is also reflected in the public reports produced by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, which are regularly updated. They cover, not least, issues of discrimination against women and girls, respect for freedom of expression and, of course, also the application of the death penalty. I would like to assure you that Sweden will continue to be a driving and clear voice for respect for human rights, democracy, the rule of law and equal value for all. We will continue to raise these issues with Iran on a regular basis. Finally, I would like to reiterate that I take very seriously the situation of Ahmadreza Djalali, and our efforts for him continue unabated. Sweden will continue to demand that the death sentence against Ahmadreza Djalali is not enforced. Our demands for full consular access remain. We are concerned about Ahmadreza Djalali state of health and continue to demand from Iranian representatives that he be given the care he needs.
