i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-0	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by drawing the attention of Members of this House and the other Members present to the fact that in the gallery we have the proposed candidate Claudia Gardberg Morner and the national auditor Helena Lindberg. Welcome here! This is the first time Parliament will elect a Director of the National Audit Office, Madam Speaker, and I intend to give a brief background. The task of the Swedish National Audit Office is to examine what the state's money is spent on, how it is accounted for and how effectively it is used. The Swedish National Audit Office is a very important part of the parliament's control power, and it is therefore important that it functions properly. Since problems in the Swedish National Audit Office were highlighted during the summer of 2016, a number of investigations were initiated, and a change that these investigations' proposals have led to is that the Swedish National Audit Office has since 1 April 2020 been given a new management structure. Since 1 April, the Swedish National Audit Office is led by only one national auditor – Helena Lindberg, who was elected national auditor in 2017. Now the Riksdag is to elect a Deputy Governor with the title of the Director of the National Audit Office. The Director of the National Audit Office shall be able to manage the day-to-day administrative management of the Authority under the responsibility of the National Auditor. It is the National Auditor who determines the tasks to be performed by the Director of the National Audit Office. It is we in the Constitutional Committee who have prepared the issue, and the proposal has been preceded by extensive recruitment work by a so-called preparatory delegation, which consists of one representative of each party in the committee. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the preparatory delegation for its good cooperation, which has resulted in a unanimous proposal. The drafting delegation decided to recommend to the committee to propose to the Riksdag that the candidate in question be elected as Director of the National Audit Office. Then the committee has unanimously decided to propose to Parliament to elect the proposed candidate. Madam President, I would like The Constitutional Committee therefore proposes that the Riksdag elect Claudia Gardberg Morner as Director of the National Audit Office. She is a county councillor at the County Administrative Board of Södermanland County since 2016, and has previously served as Deputy Director General and Area Manager of the Swedish Food Administration. She has also held various management positions within the Finnish Immigration Service and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. Claudia Gardberg Morner is a PhD in sociology. The following letter had been received from the Constitutional Committee:
i-FrbKHdPVu5bkXk3EdsNcP3	The Constitutional Committee has prepared the question of the election of the Director of the National Audit Office. The Constitutional Committee unanimously proposes that the Riksdag be elected for the period from 1 September 2020 until a new election has been held during the seventh year Morner.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-8	I would ask Claudia Gardberg Morner to stand up so that we can congratulate her properly. Congratulations, and welcome!
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-14	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. The ravages of the Corona virus have enormous consequences around the world. Of course, the greatest consequence is that people lose their lives. We also see consequences for democracy in the world – how authoritarian governments seize the opportunity to grab even more power. A basic condition for this not to happen is that citizens are able to take part in independent and factual news and to inform themselves. As a result of the Corona crisis, newspapers are losing advertising revenue — newspapers that are now struggling for survival. At the same time, we see how important it is to have a factual news report, both local and international. This is nothing new – every year, half a billion dollars in advertising revenue for the newspapers disappears – but the Corona crisis worsens the situation significantly. An example from my home country is the local newspaper Haparandabladet, which has now lost about 50 percent of its advertising revenue. The local newspaper and democracy suffer as a result. Therefore, the government has decided on a total of 700 million in extra media support now during the Corona crisis. What we have to deal with in this paragraph are proposals of a more administrative nature concerning the fate of the press. The pre-aid has been in place since the 1970s and is given to ensure that all citizens of Sweden have media pluralism and news coverage throughout the country. It consists of two parts. One is operating aid, which is provided for the operation of newspapers. The support is based on the size of the edition and how often the magazine comes out. Then there is the distribution aid, which is given for each distributed copy of a newspaper that participates in co-distribution. The aid is provided by a distribution company on a monthly basis. In order to receive support, a newspaper must have its own editorial content which represents at least 55 per cent of the total editorial content. The government is now proposing, on the one hand, that we allow an advance payment of operating aid to newspaper companies for this year and, on the other hand, that the requirement for a daily newspaper to have a certain share of its own editorial content be temporarily abolished. These two parts need to be broken out of the other handling of the issue, which is contained in the spring amending budget, in order for the measures to be put in place more quickly. That is why we are dealing with these two issues. A united committee shares the government's view and endorses the proposal.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-20	Madam President, I would like As the previous speaker described, the changes this report entails are important, albeit possibly administrative in nature. I would like to take this opportunity to raise our eyes a little and see that we in Sweden have a pressure that is under severe pressure due to a very extensive corona epidemic that does not only affect this sector in society. I think it is important that, when we have this kind of pressure, we use our role as a strong state with good economic conditions to help our media companies, for example, to remain on their feet and to safeguard the important function that they represent. Of course, it is possible to have detailed points of view, but at such a critical stage we must be able to ensure that the necessary support is provided on the ground as soon as possible. This also applies, of course, to other sectors. Having chosen to take this kind of proactive action in this particular sector, we Moderates hope that we can see the same proactive approach also in other sectors to save jobs and businesses before they disappear rather than trying to clean up afterwards. With this, I would like to support the proposal in the report.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-24	Madam President, I would like It is, to say the least, a strange and difficult time in which we live. Many have lost loved ones, their normal social contacts and income. Many companies, for example in the tourism industry, have major problems of survival because demand has completely stopped or has fallen significantly. Others, for example in industry, have problems because they do not produce parts of their production. So they have a lot of staff who have nothing to do. These companies have, among other things, been supported to lay off employees. But for the media, the problems are quite different. Affected companies in, for example, the tourism industry and industry, as I mentioned earlier, which otherwise buy advertisements in the media, have, of course, completely stopped doing so when they are no longer in operation in the normal way. A large part of the income for the media has thus suddenly disappeared. At the same time, the demand for news is on top. As we have heard before, there is now a great need for free and democratic media. As I said, demand is at its peak. New information and new things to report will come all the time. In order to meet these needs, the media companies are of course in great need of all their staff. For them, it is not at all lay-off aid that is needed, but for them support is needed so that they can continue their important and requested activities despite the fact that a large part of the normal funding has disappeared. That is why more support is needed specifically for the media. It is good that the government has listened to everyone who has pointed out that this need in the media is great. The temporary changes to pre-financing are good and necessary, but they are not enough. The government has announced that there will be an additional 500 million in support of the media in addition to the 200 million coming from the spring budget. This support will be provided to enable them to maintain their activities. I assume that this support will come quickly and that the Left Party, which is one of the parties involved in the agreement on pre-financing, will also be involved in the detailed design of the aid that is now to be developed. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-30	Madam President, I would like In this report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs deals with two requests from the spring amending budget. As part of the funding of daily or weekly newspapers, there is pre-support. It is awarded annually and is paid monthly. To receive this support, a newspaper must have at least 55 per cent of its own editorial material. What the government is now proposing is to pay out the pre-financing granted in advance so that the newspapers have access to the entire year's support already now and can dispose of the aid in the way that suits them best. It is also a proposal to change the rules for how much editorial material a newspaper must have in order to receive pre-support. The spread of the Corona virus has had a significant impact on the media throughout the country. These are some of the measures taken by the government to make it easier for the media to deal with the effects of the Corona virus. It is an important part of a viable democracy to have free and independent media. When we look at the outside world, we notice that this becomes particularly important during an ongoing social crisis. Not least ad-dependent media has quickly lost advertisers and thus a large part of their revenue. At the same time, you want to know more and more about how to handle this virus. Much of the information is also that that comes from different authorities and that we want to be passed on to all citizens, which makes it reasonable that the requirement for unique material in a newspaper does not exist right now. It is also important that we have media throughout the country, because citizens throughout the country need to be able to access this information. The government has presented several different support to the media industry recently, including temporary editorial support that applies during this year. The spring amending budget also proposes a permanent strengthening of media support and a doubling of support to monitor the geographical areas where there is weak or non-existent journalistic coverage – what is called white spots. The support that has now been dealt with by the Constitutional Committee is temporary regulatory changes which mean that payments of pre-financing already decided for this year can now be made and that the requirement for own editorial material is temporarily abolished. These are important parts of the very complex puzzle that is media funding. With this, I call for the proposal in the Constitutional Committee's report to be approved.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-37	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for our reservation on this matter to be approved. This concerns reservation 1, claims 1 and 2. Madam President, I would like The EU citizens' initiative is an important instrument in participatory democracy within the EU. It enables European citizens to join forces and gather signatures if one issue becomes large enough and involves a great many people. If the required number of signatures are obtained from a sufficient number of countries, it may be requested directly to the Commission to return to it with a legislative proposal on the matter. This is one way of getting in direct contact with the Commission and not having to go through parliamentary procedures. An initiative to the Commission can be presented in the same way as the European Parliament and the Council can. We think this is a good thing. This is a step in the right direction – we like direct democracy. But we also think it important that all the proposals put forward in our parliamentary assemblies should have a sender. In addition to the initiative itself, it is also important to know who is behind it or who is behind it. Is it a particular geographical, socio-economic or religious group? Even at an individual level, it may be interesting to know which individuals they are. Is it a representative of the business community, or is it a religious representative? In order to gain a broader insight into what the initiative is about, it may be important to know who is running it. That is precisely why we do not have the confidentiality of this type of citizens' initiative in Sweden. In Sweden we have something called people's initiatives and citizens' proposals, and it is open and transparent who signs them. I can understand the arguments for sometimes wanting confidentiality. I have seen this not least as a Swedish democrat ten years ago, when it was dangerous to be a Swedish democrat. When I chose to join the party, I really stood in the election and the agony if I would dare to put myself in danger. Sure, confidentiality can be good if there is a great deal of fear and there is political discrimination. Nevertheless, I believe that it is beginning at the wrong end to keep secret who is making suggestions in our congregations. If you weigh these two arguments against each other, I still believe that transparency and transparency win in the long run. There is also another reason. We think it is good if the citizens can actually check afterwards that a number of signatures have been received. If you keep them confidential for 70 years, you make it very difficult. Although we trust our authorities today, of course, we believe that this is the wrong way to build this into the system. We stand for transparency and transparency. We request that the Government reject the Government's proposal and request that the Government return to the Riksdag with a proposal to abolish the existing confidentiality provision in the Publicity and Confidentiality Act for individuals. The statements of support provided are valid today as well.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-47	Madam President, I would like The title of this report is not very explanatory, but it is therefore a question of maintaining the confidentiality of those who have signed European citizens' initiatives, which are rather like citizens' proposals fixed at European level. In order for such initiatives to be taken further within the EU system and investigated, a certain number of people in a certain number of countries are required to sign. The signatures should then be checked and approved by an authority, so that you know that it is real people with right of suggestion who have signed. In Sweden, it is the Election Authority that has that task. Those who have signed are classified. The fact that we are now going to take a new decision to keep it confidential is also due to the fact that the EU has adopted a new regulation on the citizens' initiative. However, we in the Left Party still think that it is entirely reasonable that it should be public who makes various proposals in the EU system. It is also reasonable that it should be possible to follow up that the authorities that approve the signatures do so properly, and then it cannot be secret who has signed. It is not the confidentiality of persons who sign citizens' proposals in municipalities and regions. We have a system in which it goes without saying that it is public who represents the parties that come up with proposals for political change. It is public who has political mandates and who can therefore make proposals. One should be able to see who represents different opinions, and the Left Party thinks it is obvious that this should also be the case in the EU system. Citizens' initiatives should be easy to sign, and they can be signed digitally. The problems of data breaches are another reason why the data on the signatories of the citizens' initiatives should be public. There may be good reasons for different interests to push forward citizens' initiatives, and then it must be possible to make sure that those who stand as signatories are properly judged and that they have really chosen to be. Each of us should be able to see that no one has used our names as signatories of something we do not stand for. That is why I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 2.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-53	Madam President, I would like This report is about the confidentiality of European citizens' initiatives, and it is not, of course, a simple nut to crack. There are many interests against each other: Should we focus on personal integrity and the right to avoid registration of opinions, or should we focus on the transparency and transparency of our processes? I believe, Madam President, that we must land somewhere in between. Let me first say that there are some important differences to, for example, our municipal citizens' proposals, where it is enough for one person to sign for it to become a citizens' proposal – in some municipalities a slightly higher limit has been set. But it does not end up almost at the high level of the European Union, where 1 million people are required to sign and then suddenly there is a rather broad register of opinions that people carry. It can then be argued that in the event of a referendum at municipal level, several people must state that they want the referendum. There may be various reasons for wanting a referendum to take place. It's not the same as signing a clear and specific proposal that you support, but you can have different motivations for thinking that a referendum should take place – perhaps something as simple and straightforward as you think it's good that people can vote and say what they think on a controversial issue, even if you don't share their views. It is the risk of being able to create large and, in practice, fully published registers of people's opinions that I believe is one of the most weighty reasons why this kind of information should not be completely transparent. It is also the case that, in its detailed form, the proposal is pushed and wet through the European institutions. It is not possible to put forward an insidious proposal in a citizens' initiative which could then happen to go through the EU system, but it is essentially the Commission that is being asked to present such a proposal. Then it is also the Commission that is privileged to formulate the proposal in all its various details. That is why I would like to think that the point of seeing exactly who has signed up and what motivations you can have is somewhat weakened, because it is the Commission that is putting forward the formal proposal in the EU system, even if the initiative is taken by a large number of citizens in the EU countries. In the light of this, Madam President, among other things, I would like to support the proposal contained in the report.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-59	Madam President, I would like In the report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has dealt with a government proposal to update the Act on Publicity and Secrecy. The decision does not really change the substance of the matter, but it is because, since 1 January, a new regulation on European citizens' initiatives has been in place to make them more accessible. That is why the law room in our legislation on public access and confidentiality needs to be linked to the new regulation and not to the old one. One may be surprised that it should be protected who is giving support to citizens' initiatives within the EU, so that one cannot know who has signed up. It differs from the tradition of openness that we are used to around people's initiatives and citizens' proposals in our municipalities and regions. The committee nevertheless believes that the conditions for signing citizens' initiatives are the same in the various EU countries. In Sweden, it is the Election Authority that checks and certifies that a signatory meets the requirements for signing citizens' initiatives, such as being of sufficient age. In order for the initiatives to be examined by the Commission, they must be signed by 1 million EU citizens representing at least 24 countries. There are also quota rules as to how many from each country must be represented. There is also a need for an account of any financial support received for the citizens' initiative. This case therefore concerns the activities of the electoral authority to verify and certify the number of valid statements of support covered by confidentiality. On this issue, the Constitutional Committee takes the same position as when the issue of the Publicity and Confidentiality Act was last dealt with. The KU's report stresses the importance of the Government closely monitoring the Swedish principles of openness, transparency and transparency in EU work. With this, I call for the proposal of the Constitutional Committee to be approved.
i-7FJc2aqAganyhak7Q2yMUd	Madam President, I would like In a petition to the Riksdag, the Riksbank proposes that this Assembly allow the Riksbank to participate in a financing solution to amortise Somalia's debt to the International Monetary Fund, the IMF, for an amount equivalent to SEK 21 million. The background to the case is Somalia's debt situation, which led it to disqualify itself from IMF refinancing and other types of international credits. In view of this, the IMF has taken this initiative in which it wants a Swedish participation in the financing of Somalia's debt cancellation, and this requires a yes from the Swedish parliament. However, before the debt write-off becomes applicable, Somalia shall undergo a process in which it shall pay off its IMF debt by means of a bridging credit, in order to obtain a new IMF loan which shall in turn repay part of the bridging credit. This may not be a self-evident operation for the vast majority. The risk that the Swedish Democrats see with this procedure is that the consent of debt cancellation will have a precedent effect for future treatment of similar cases. The signal to the outside world in the event of consent will inevitably be that the system as such and IMF claims cannot be regarded as safe. Ultimately, therefore, it is a question of maintaining confidence in the IMF as a crediting institution, but also of the standards set for other low-credited states. It should be remembered that this is not the first time and certainly not the last time that Parliament has to deal with such a request from the IMF. Therefore, in the event of debt cancellation for Somalia, the incentives for another state in financial default may be affected in such a way that the amortization will be weakened and important political reforms will be lacking, which in the long run risks draining the credibility of the IMF's entire lending activities. That's what you'd call a classic moral hazard scenario, like when banks coldly calculate with government bailouts. However, the greatest risk lies in a loss of confidence in the international community in general and the IMF in particular. In a political landscape characterised by a downscaling of engagement within international organisations, debt cancellations are further artillery to continued criticism from key nations. A loss of trust capital for the IMF would thus increase uncertainty about international cooperation and hamper the handling of cases within the framework of lending activities. Imagine a scenario in which the IMF's counterpart is, instead, an insolvent state of greater relevance to the global economy than in the present case! Would future debt cancellation decisions be complicated or simplified if the IMF already has a documented history of failed debt recovery? The answer is obvious. How to deal with Somalia's debt situation now can have consequences for the future. As I said, this is not the first time Parliament has taken a position on a debt cancellation issue within the framework of the IMF's activities. In 2008, the Riksbank was granted by the Riksdag to write off part of Liberia's debt to the IMF of more than SEK 57 million, recalculated in today's monetary value. Criticism of the IMF's risk assessments in the context of lending activities is therefore justified, as Member States' funds must be mobilised again. Madam President, I would like The mandate of the Swedish democrats by the Swedish people is to manage the citizens' tax revenue responsibly and to prioritise the necessary reforms and investments for a strengthened welfare and increased security throughout the country. When we submitted our follow-up motion in February, we wrote the following: It is needs that have hardly become less since then, rather the opposite. In conclusion, consent would mean setting a risky precedent and giving away Swedish tax money. Sweden can say no. Let's do it. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-76	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the follow-up motion to be rejected. Somalia, as everyone here knows, is one of the world's poorest countries, with a population that has been plagued by civil war for three decades. Poverty is widespread, and the constant drought aggravates humanitarian challenges. The number of internally displaced persons is estimated at 2.6 million people. The lack of reasonable housing, sanitation and water is widespread. Access to health care and education is, to say the least, inadequate. The country is struggling with problems such as lack of access to formal justice, corruption, inequality and gender-based violence. Somalia is now, after a long period of war, in a reconstruction phase, and preparations are underway for general elections this year. It is unclear whether these can happen, perhaps in 2021. The security situation and political disunity in the country pose major challenges. It has been lagging behind for a long time with its interest and debt payments to the IMF, and that is what today's report is all about. The IMF has proposed a model for financing the write-off of Somalia's debt to the IMF. This debt means that the country cannot obtain new loans from the IMF, and so other forms of aid and loan flows have also been made impossible. Somalia cannot therefore benefit from the so-called HIPC programme, Highly Indebted Poor Country, which is a debt relief and debt relief programme for marked low-income countries with unsustainable debts. Despite the fact that Somalia is characterised by this and is in fact qualified for this programme, it cannot be included in it at present, and the negative effects on the economy have been seriously deepened in recent years. Madam President, I would like As the IMF does not have its own resources to amortise or alleviate the debts of borrowing countries, it is proposed that funds from two special reserve accounts within the IMF should be used to cover the financing of a debt write-off for Somalia. The funds for the two accounts consist of claims made by the Member States on the IMF, and in order for them to be used, the IMF must have the approval of each Member State. In Sweden, the Riksbank is our liaison body with the IMF. In order for the bank to be included in the proposed solution, the Riksbank Act requires a decision here in the Swedish Parliament. It is this consent that a large majority of the committee now wants to give to the Riksbank. Somalia's total foreign debt is approximately SEK 50 billion, of which the debt to the IMF amounts to SEK 3.3 billion. For Sweden – listen carefully now – it is about contributing the equivalent of SEK 21 million through the proposed solution. Once the write-off is made, the IMF's plan is to provide Somalia with the opportunity to access new IMF loans and facilities through an orderly, multi-step process. However, a prerequisite for this is that Somalia continues to work with the IMF for a very long time to reform the Somali economy and to put in place a strategy to reduce the high level of poverty. The work was started several years ago with the IMF to improve the tax system, take action against money laundering and terrorist financing and strengthen the governance of the country's state-owned companies. This remains a matter of urgency. Madam President, I would like The motion by the Swedish Democrats suggests that the IMF's confidence would be reduced if this particular debt write-off were implemented. That is not a sustainable argument. The HIPC debt relief initiative for low-income countries with unsustainable debt came into being in the late 1990s, and so far 36 countries have received debt reduction this path without any significant impact on the reputation of the IMF. On the other hand, Sweden's reputation risks being adversely affected if we, together with the other Member States, refrain from contributing to this debt cancellation. No, it is rather a question of unwillingness to take Somalia's problems seriously and reluctance to contribute to solutions. The Swedish democrats therefore set SEK 21 million, which the Swedish effort means for debt relief for one of the world's most vulnerable countries, against efforts to strengthen Swedish welfare. It is strong in stomach, and it speaks clearly. The Swedish democrats, like everyone else in this House, know, of course, that SEK 21 million on the Swedish macro level does not significantly strengthen or impair Swedish welfare. In order not to impair Sweden's reputation in an environment, it is therefore wise to approve the Riksbank's request.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-85	Madam President, I would like I think that the honourable Member himself answers many of the issues raised in the speech. There is talk of political reform, and there is talk of legislative measures to combat money laundering. These are measures that the Swedish Democrats support and hope that Somalia is inclined to take. But these are also measures that must be independent of Swedish tax revenue. These are not measures that basically require some kind of funding. I also think that the honourable Member highlights another important point in this connection, namely the corruption of the political system in Somalia. Somalia is a country at the absolute peak of the corruption index. Is it strategic to donate Swedish tax money to such a political system? I do not think it is responsible policy.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-86	Madam President, I would like Member Dioukarev of the Swedish Democrats can be sure that when this debt write-off is carried out within the framework of the IMF initiative, the IMF will of course continue to make very high demands. That is exactly what I said in my speech. This is not, in essence, about 21 million Swedish tax crowns being processed by not getting to the right use. It is, in fact, a question of our contributing very little in order to get this country out of the darkness in which it finds itself and to be able, together with the IMF, to take new steps towards further development of the country in order to reduce corruption, to increase equality and to reduce the risk of terrorist financing. To say that this SEK 21 million is not important is, in fact, to make a completely opposite assessment of what the IMF does when it makes this request. I rather think that this is about Sweden's reputation in the world around us. The Swedish Democrats now want to reduce aid to 0.5 percent of GDP, which means a total of SEK 20 billion in Swedish aid. This, together with this inordinately weak attitude when it comes to helping to solve one of the poorest countries in the world, shows rather that the Swedish democrats are prepared to compromise Sweden's reputation in the outside world. I think that would be deeply unfortunate.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-88	Madam President, I would like We base our policy on the precautionary principle, responsibility and cautious progress. In this context, I would like to ask a straight question. How can Ingela Nylund Watz guarantee that this money is used in the way that is intended in a country that is at the top of the corruption index? When you create such an incentive system, you absolve a debt without actually making any demands. Rather, I think we should be able to make demands right now. Somalia has a debt to the IMF. At this point in time, we should be able to make demands on the fight against poverty, on political structural reforms and, above all, on countering the type of religious extremism that exists in the country. This tool and this opportunity already exist. It does not take 21 million Swedish tax crowns to be able to make this kind of requirement. Twenty - one million dollars is certainly a symbolic sum in this context. But I was counting on this yesterday because I suspected that this issue would be raised, and SEK 21 million is enough for 266 000 respiratory protection of the FFP2 model for the care that would really be needed here and now. You can of course relativise sums here and there, but the Swedish Democrats have a responsible view of our economic policy. Obviously, the Social Democrats have different starting points.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-91	Madam President, I would like Member Dioukarev falls into what the Swedish Democrats always do when they want to appear as knights of welfare in relation to all other efforts related to, for example, the aid or, as in this case, to participate in helping to make it a little brighter and see a possible way forward for one of the world's absolutely poorest and most vulnerable countries. It's a known strategy. I am therefore not surprised that Mr Dioukarev is putting breathing masks against these SEK 21 million. This is what the Swedish Democrats always do when it is something that does not fit. This isn't about that. This is an initiative by the IMF, which already today and for several years now calls on Somalia to take part in active work to combat poverty, terrorist financing, corruption, inequality and gender-related violence. It's going to continue. This initiative now gives Somalia an orderly opportunity to get its nose across the surface. As things stand, Somalia has no way of getting any other facilities that could help them get out of this crisis. That's what it's all about. With SEK 21 million, through the Riksbank, Sweden can help to give that country a better way forward. This is important for Sweden's reputation. That is what I am most concerned about in this context.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-94	Madam President, I would like Today we have a dysfunctional housing market. Many of our biggest societal problems, such as low growth, lack of integration and insecurity, stem from the problems of the housing market and the lack of housing. If Sweden's recovery after the Corona crisis is to be successful, the housing market needs to function better. It is of great importance now that the effects of the crisis are and will be significant for the foreseeable future. Madam President, I would like A new housing policy reform for better housing provision and greater mobility should be developed. Increased mobility in the Swedish housing market is of great importance, and the Moderates believe that further reforms should be presented in the future to achieve this. The government dares or does not want to act to deliver proposals that lead to more housing. The government's findings in the area of housing policy are extremely weak. Inefficient and costly building subsidies to the developers basically constitute the entire government's housing policy. Several issues should be raised and changed in the context of a more vigorous housing policy: simplifying and shortening the planning process
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-99	For example, reform of the protection of the beach simply to build in attractive areas 中 wide-ranging transparency and simplification of building standards Restricting national interests and increasing access to buildable land - facilitating more people to own their housing and making it easier to enter the housing market
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-103	Madam President, I would like Today, only in central Stockholm, about 50 000 apartments are empty while many find it difficult to find a place to live. This applies not least to those who live in other parts of the country and are in Stockholm and work for some time. The housing shortage is hampering jobs and growth. Sweden's housing shortage has passed into a housing crisis. The proposal to increase the suspension ceiling is a step in the right direction. Taxes have a controlling effect on people's behaviour and decisions. In the long term, the abolition of the ceiling on the amount of the deferral may help to improve the functioning of the relocation chains in the housing market. The whole of housing policy should be reformed so that we can have more mobility in the housing market. Policies should facilitate increased mobility combined with other measures to improve the functioning of the housing market and reforms to improve housing provision. It's a top priority. In view of this, the Moderates believe that, in the long term, the ceiling for deferral on the sale of private dwellings should be permanently abolished in order to make more efficient use of the housing stock. I'm in favour of reservation 2 from the Moderates.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-107	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Left Party's reservation in the report. The Government's proposal is that anyone who sells a private dwelling with profit and buys a new dwelling may be allowed to increase the tax deferral of the capital gain, from today's ceiling of SEK 1.45 million to SEK 3 million. Someone watching the debate at home might think that we are in the middle of a coronapandemia. Should we not focus on protecting the most marginalised, the most vulnerable? Someone else may think of the homeless who sleep on the street, who are forced to walk around the shelters and who cannot protect themselves. What does the government do just when every tax chandelier is needed and when we go into deep crisis? Well, it allows the rich to postpone even more of their treasure. It is about people who have large capital gains in their homes. These are the people we find high up in the distribution of income. And the biggest impact will be the tenth of the population with the highest economic standards. Other income groups are almost unaffected by the proposal. It should also be borne in mind that it is people who are already benefiting from reduced taxes, not least through interest rebates, ROT deductions and the abolition of property tax. But there's a lot more to be had. It reminds a little of the capitalist myths that a strong policy for the few high up on the top makes the crumbs seep down to the majority of the army down here. That is how the government and the bourgeoisie justify this proposal. This time it is said that it will increase mobility in the housing market and make the so-called migration chains actually work. You know what? Actually, you're right. Moving chains and the housing policies that you run work, for the rich. For those who have a lot of money, your housing policy works just fine. It's working fine. For example, if expensive housing is built, as is currently the case, other expensive dwellings are released, usually within the same geographical area. Then one high wage earner can move out and another high wage earner can move in. Voilà! There's the migration chain, which works for the rich. All research in this area today shows that it is impossible to build expensive and large if you want low-income people to be reached. The fact is that there is no evidence that low-income households can get housing through the migration chains. The mobility of the housing market thus works well for the rich. Now the same target group will have to postpone even more of its tax than before. The crazy thing is that it increases the inequality of the housing market even more. You don't even have to use a deferral of profits. It is perfectly possible to pay that tax. We would then receive much more money for welfare, which is really needed in this crisis. If one really wants to do something about the housing situation, how would it be to start building according to needs and create homes with rents that people can afford and not rely on the market and so-called migration chains that still only reach the rich? As demand exceeds supply, more needs to be built. The market is unable to do that. Almost all municipalities in the country need housing. Bostaden has gone from being a fundamental right to a consumer product, like any commodity on the market. It has hit groups with no capital and no contacts. What is needed is an equal and social housing policy in which the state takes a great responsibility for building housing for everyone, regardless of income. These are rental apartments with reasonable rents that people can afford, for people with a weak financial position who need to get over the high threshold into the housing market. Then we would also get away from the housing segregation that has increased in line with increased class gaps and inequality. The system we have today has only fed the richest. It has saturated the banks and venture capitalists and opened up for sales, conversions and renovations. It is deeply worrying that the Social Democrats and the bourgeoisie have totally abandoned responsibility for housing supply. In a rich country like Sweden we have people who sleep on the street, who are forced to walk around the shelters and who do not have a bed or a place to call at home. Their situation is now getting worse as a result of the crisis. We also have a few who make billions. At this point, the government is putting forward a proposal that only benefits the wealthy even more. All you have to do is regret it. I call for the Left Party's reservation to be approved.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-121	Madam President, I would like We have a housing market that does not work, and there are a number of reasons for this. Among the various reasons, there are two that are probably of particular importance. The first is that far too few homes are being built, and the second is the removal taxes along with the various credit restrictions. The consequence of both of these factors is that people do not move to suitable housing or do not find any housing to which they can move. According to the Government, the aim of the proposal we are going to take today is to increase mobility in the housing market. It is in itself welcome, and we Christian Democrats agree that this is important. Unfortunately, however, today's proposal does not solve the problem. The proposal in the Government proposal means that the ceiling for deferral of capital gains on the sale of a private dwelling is set at SEK 3 million. This means that we are keeping the same system that has been in place for many years but with a new limit on the amount of deferral. There would have been a need for much greater changes. The Christian Democrats' picture is that the main problem is the timing of the levying of taxes. We have therefore proposed a model whereby the cap on the deferral of the capital gains tax is completely removed, but also that the payment of the interest on the deferral can be deferred on the future when buying a new dwelling. Our model does not impose profits on sales on taxes, and that means that a large part of the lack of mobility caused by taxes can be eliminated. Instead, in our model, both capital gains tax and deferred interest are paid when no longer deferred. These include, for example, moving to a rental apartment or a special dwelling or dying. In order to finance the cost to the State of obtaining deferred interest and capital gains tax later than the current regulatory framework, the interest on the deferral may be slightly increased to reflect the cost of the State's credit. In this way, mobility in the housing market can increase in a way that is cost-neutral for the state. Madam President, I would like The lack of mobility in the housing market is a major brake block. It means that people cannot move to suitable housing, that older people cannot move to adapted housing, and that young families cannot move to anything larger. It means that students are forced to opt out of study places. It means that young people are forced to stay with their parents. And it has long meant that our companies have had difficulty recruiting competent staff because these people have not found a place to live. Greater mobility will make a large number of homes available. This would have had a major positive impact on individual residents, businesses and society as a whole. It is good that the government is aware that this is a problem, but the policy presented in this bill is far from sufficient. Our model had given much greater mobility, and we want the government to investigate it as soon as possible. I therefore support our reservation, reservation 3.
i-7K8K5HPv3Xeo2GZ3WKmMb4	Madam President, I would like Today's case concerns an increased cap on the deferral of capital gains on the sale of private homes. A taxable person who disposes of a private residence with a profit and acquires a new dwelling may, under certain conditions, be deferred from taxation of the capital gain. An amount of deferral is obtained by deducting the amount of the deferral from the capital gain by the taxpayer. An interest is paid for that amount. In 2009, a ceiling on the amount of the deferral was introduced. Between 2016 and 2020 the ceiling was temporarily removed. From 1 July, the deferral amount would have returned to SEK 1.45 million, which was in force before 2016. A new decision is therefore needed. The proposal now proposes that the tax deferral of capital gains on the sale of private homes should be amended to raise the ceiling from SEK 1.45 million to SEK 3 million. This applies to divestments made after 30 June 2020. When the abolition of the cap was introduced on a time-limited basis, it was assessed that the time-limit increased the incentive to move in the near future, while at the same time creating less tax credits than permanent abolition. According to the Government, these reasons are still valid. With a ceiling of SEK 3 million, approximately 95 per cent of those requesting a deferral are estimated to be able to receive a deferral of the entire capital gain. In addition, the method of calculating the amount of deferral for the purchase of a cheaper dwelling has been changed so that in most cases it has become more generous. I support the committee's proposal and reject the motions.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-130	Madam President, I would like The basis for this reform, as we have heard today, is that there is a great need to increase mobility in the housing market. Point. We all know that increased mobility is in no way a quick fix. This is not something that we resolve by means of an individual reform. What the housing market looks like is an effect of a variety of factors. It is about everything from taxes to fees when you buy and sell small houses, the Planning and Construction Act and rental. The list can be made long. Ultimately, it is also a matter of public transport, accessibility and labour market mobility. It is also about beach protection and national interests, which we have heard about here. This is an extremely complex area. Madam President, I would like The need to increase mobility is the background to the inclusion of capital gains tax in the January agreement. Sweden is today characterised by a housing market with low mobility, where many people choose to stay in a home even though they really want to and need to move. However, the taxes do not make it worthwhile to change homes. This, in turn, leads to completely different problems in the housing market, such as less functioning migration chains and ultimately longer housing queues. For example, many older people feel that tax levels make it too expensive to sell their home even though they would really like to move. Another problem is that there is no place to move. My municipality of residence Nora is one of the cities that has no adapted intermediate housing for the elderly. Older people remain in their villas or apartments until they apply and receive a decision on their place in special accommodation. It is therefore a good thing that the government has given incentives to build adapted retirement homes. However, even if these exist in some municipalities, it is too many difficult to move. Maybe it'll also be a loss deal. There are, of course, many ways to deal with these problems. The deferral cap and the interest on the amount of the deferral are part of this. But of course there is also a great need for a major tax reform. The Center Party believes it is important that any changes in taxes on the housing market must be done with care, step-by-step and care so that people can plan for their housing. It is important that housing policy is designed in such a way that we have an effective use of the total housing stock in Sweden. For this to be possible, it is important that mobility is available so that people can find the housing they need. I note that there are motions in the report that highlight different models of taxation of capital gains and deferred amounts. In our surrounding world there are many examples that Sweden can be inspired by. However, we also need to take into account the fact that each country's housing market is usually unique and difficult to compare. I note that there is broad support in Parliament for further reforms of the housing market in order, among other things, to increase mobility. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal contained in the report of the Committee on Taxation 18.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-139	Madam President, I would like A number of inequalities in the housing market have been highlighted in this debate. People have been talking about injustice. I agree. There are great injustices in Sweden today in the housing market. One of the injustices is that low-income people own their homes to a very low degree. It's an injustice. If you own your home instead of renting it, we know that you earn from it over time. It costs a lot more to rent a dwelling in the long – and actually not so long – race. A few years ago, there was a report that said that whoever owns his home for about three years will benefit from it compared to if it had rented. We must ensure that low-income people also own. Reforms such as flexible ownership and reduced taxes on low incomes are needed, so that money can be saved for an effort. Another injustice is that there are a lot of people in Sweden today who do not get into the housing market. It's hard to get your first home. It can be difficult to get your first tenancy, your first right-of-occupancy apartment or your first house – or whatever the housing situation in the place where you are located. Of course, we need to solve this with simpler building rules, a different land policy in many of our municipalities and so on, so that we have housing built. But, Madam President, that is not what this matter is about. Today, many other parties have stayed in other parts of the housing debate than this debate is actually about. What we are going to talk about today is mobility in the housing market. Madam President, I would like It is clear that it is a problem if a company or an entrepreneur wants to hire someone, but that person does not find a home in the area, so that investments cannot be made and the economic growth that we need to keep the country rolling. It is also a big problem if a person gets a changed life situation and needs to move or find a new dwelling but it is not possible because the housing market is rigid and frozen. One way to ensure that mobility in the housing market is increased – it is not the only way, as pointed out in a few of the reservations, but a necessary way – is to raise the ceiling for the deferral of capital gains in the sale of private homes, as we are debating here today. As some have pointed out, it is clear that the argument that the increase – it is a duplication, which is a rather large increase – will lead to greater mobility is valid no matter what amount we would talk about. The Parliament is to make a decision on this today. I could go up in the speaker's chair here tomorrow and argue in favour of doubling the amount one more time. The same argument would have been valid on day two: we have increased mobility in the housing market. What the Liberals want is, as several previous speakers have said, that we are doing away with this. You should be able to postpone it no matter how much money it is – that much we need to increase mobility. Now, in our economic policy, we are cooperating with the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Center Party. In a constellation where some people want to get rid of the system and some might want to keep what it is today-- what do I know--it's clear that it can be hard to get through exactly what you want. But I am very pleased, Madam President, that through negotiation and through our work in economic policy we have forced with us these great giants in Swedish politics, the Social Democrats, on this massive increase in the amount, a doubling. It's amazing. It will increase mobility. This will ensure that the housing market becomes more flexible, that it will be easier to find a home that is suitable for your own life situation and that it will be easier to recruit people to your own company around the country because they find housing. Madam President, I would like It has been said here in the debate – I think it was by the Left Party; it would not surprise – that this only benefits capital owners and capitalists. It would be a question of people who own their homes, own money and shoes themselves on others by not working for their income but simply owning the dwelling and taking out the profits. But look at the amounts, Madam President! In fact, what this is all about is not people who are big capitalists. It's just rhetoric from the Left Party. These are people who own ordinary homes. It may seem expensive to own ordinary homes. Yeah, so do I. I think it's way too expensive. I don't think it's built enough. I think we have too complicated rules. I think we have too much treasure. It makes it too expensive to find a place to live. The people involved in this matter are not big capitalists, as the Left Party wants it to sound like. It is common people who want to be able to adapt to their life situation. I think it is good that we ensure that they do so and that we have a flexible housing market.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-151	Madam President, I would like We now have a debate on the CU23 report, which deals with the proposal for new powers in the area of consumer protection. Madam President, I would like The government is today proposing a rather large extension of the powers of various authorities to strengthen consumer protection through, among other things, inspection rights and hidden test purchases. Much is good, but not everything. The Moderates have therefore reserved for certain parts, and I support that reservation. Madam President, I would like I am excited to hear how the government parties will respond to the criticism we are making here today. Although it is a good thing that consumer protection is strengthened, there must be a clear regulatory framework and evaluation requirements for the authorities implementing the proposed regulatory framework. We strive in Sweden for our authorities to be so transparent that we can feel confident that they do not exceed their powers. An authority has a great deal of power over an individual or a company. It is therefore extremely important that the balance of power should not shift in the direction of authorities. In today's government proposal, we Moderates are not satisfied with the part of the proposal that deals with the possibility for authorities to buy hidden test purchases, i.e. that an authority can anonymously buy a good or a service without announcing itself. But this does strengthen the consumer's ability to demonstrate illegal or inappropriate behaviour, doesn't it? Of course, but if an authority is to hide its identity, it should be the absolute last resort, we think. Before that date, all other tools from the toolbox must have been used, such as order and supervision that are carried out openly and in the name of the authority. We also want test purchases to be used only if there is an identified direct danger that can be derived from the product or product. We Moderates also believe that there should be well-developed control mechanisms to minimise the risk that regulators use hidden test purchases incorrectly. The authorities must also account for the extent to which they are using test purchases under hidden identity, and it is the task of the government, Madam President, to ensure that this is done. When I read the replies of the government parties in the committee's report, I am puzzled. In their reply, they highlight the government's statement that a hidden test purchase should only be used when other roads are not sufficient. According to the Government, however, there is no reason to prescribe that ordinary test purchases should have proved ineffective in order for hidden test purchases to be used. It is perhaps not surprising that the government writes like this, but now what surprises me is that the committee assumes that the government will follow up on the fact that the government's test purchases are made in accordance with the intentions of the legislation and, if necessary, take the necessary measures. According to the committee, there is no reason to address an announcement to the government. Madam President, I would like The government parties in the committee hope that the authorities will comply with the intentions of the law. And they hope that the government, if the authorities do not, will act. Living off hope, Madam President, can be done outside this House. In this area, we are legislating, and the legislation must be so clear that we can all feel secure both in terms of its enforcement and that it is not being misused. What would it have cost the government parties and their support parties to say, as we clearly say, that it is the government that is responsible for compliance with the intentions of the law and for compliance being monitored and evaluated? What would it cost to announce this to the government? The proposal on hidden test purchases can serve consumers well, but it can also give authorities disproportionate power. The fact that public authorities work under hidden identity is a major departure from the principle that public authorities should work in an open and visible manner for citizens. Madam President, I would like This principle makes the government a major departure from the bill. This, Madam President, is not good for Sweden.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The objective of consumer policy is well-functioning consumer markets and environmentally, socially and economically sustainable consumption. It is important that consumers have good rights and are adequately protected. The vast majority of companies are passionate about their business and do nice business. We see how they are fighting now in the Corona crisis. Then, unfortunately, there are companies that do not have an honest intention but go out with false marketing or act in an unfortunate way. It's never okay. It goes out on people around our country, and it also goes out on all the companies that do the nicest business. I am therefore very pleased to say that the Government has submitted proposals to Parliament on amendments to the Marketing Act and on amendments to the Consumer Contracts Act. The legislative changes will give authorities strengthened supervisory powers. As you have heard, they have the right to buy products under hidden identity, so-called test purchases. The legislative changes are also aimed at companies that violate consumer protection on the Internet. If you have misleading online marketing, there should be a warning triangle. Companies are then required to have a warning triangle on their websites that shows this. With this proposal, we are adapting Swedish rights to an EU regulation. Government parties consider that the supervision of test purchases is clearly regulated and that it is only used in exceptional cases when everything else is fulfilled. The bill states that test purchases shall be used if necessary for supervision under this law. This includes first carrying out supervision in all the usual ways, and it is only if this supervision does not work and proves insufficient that test purchases can be made. In order to determine whether a test purchase is to be made, the Authority shall also carry out a proportionality assessment. That this should be done is in the Administrative Act 5 §. It is also important in this context that the Swedish Consumer Agency only starts supervisory activities when there are suspicions of an infringement. As has been said, a prerequisite for making a test purchase is that the authority has already initiated a supervisory measure. When it comes to monitoring how the legislation works, there are annual reports and official dialogues, which are of course continuous. This will be part of a continuous monitoring system. With this, I call for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for the Moderates' reservation to be rejected.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-173	Madam President, I would like I just wonder whether the honourable Member has misunderstood what the government has actually written about all the other ways out being exhausted and that everything else should have been done. In addition, the government states that the starting point is that a test purchase should be used when other investigation routes are not sufficient. According to the Government, however, there is no reason to prescribe that ordinary test purchases should have proved to be ineffective in order for hidden test purchases to be used. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like This is what we Moderates are discussing in our reservation. We want the government to have a clearer framework for when hidden test purchases can be used. And, Madam President, we want it to be monitored and evaluated. If we look at previous proposals from the Red-Green Government, we see that the Rule Council has repeatedly pointed out that there is no evaluation and that impact assessments are lacking in a number of proposals and legislative proposals. Madam President, I would like This proposal, too, does not contain an impact assessment and there is no requirement for the proposal to be evaluated. This is what we oppose in the bill. I wonder whether the government parties in the committee have not brought with them the fact that the government slips away from the demand for other possibilities to be exhausted and that it is only hoped that they will be.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-178	Madam President, I would like No, the government parties have not misunderstood the bill. We believe that this is breaking open doors. It is clear that if you suspect that a company is not doing well, you start supervision and work in every way you can to get to grips with it. It is only if this does not prove to be enough that test purchases are made. It is included in the legal text and how it is interpreted. As I said, the proportionality assessment is also included, although it is in the Administrative Act and not in this particular proposal. In terms of follow-up, there is therefore a continuous monitoring mechanism in the annual accounts and in government dialogues. We believe that concerns are removed in the proposal that has now been put forward.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-181	Madam President, I would like Mr Palmstierna mentioned precisely what we are a little concerned about: how the legislation is interpreted. We know that, Madam President, only then – afterwards! That is why we believe that there is an urgent need for other measures to be implemented and for legislation to be monitored and evaluated. Because, Madam President, it is a real danger that authorities will have disproportionate power. It is dangerous when an authority can run over an individual entrepreneur with legislation that allows the authority to carry out actions that the entrepreneur cannot foresee. It had to be predictable, and it had to be transparent. This is not just about the ability of entrepreneurs to know what is going to happen. This, Madam President, is very much about confidence in the Swedish authorities.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-184	Madam President, I would like At the risk of repeating myself: the bill states that test purchases should be used if necessary for supervision under this law. It's a clear wording. It is also stated in the Administrative Act Section 5 that a proportionality assessment should be carried out. The things that the Moderates are asking for here are important, and we believe that the criteria are met in the law. Supervision should be carried out, and only if necessary should these test purchases be used. This means that the door has been closed so that this can be overinterpreted or used unnecessarily. This wording, together with the proportionality weighting in the Administrative Act, ensures what the Moderates want to achieve in this case. As I said, there are continuous follow-ups, and there is a dialogue with the authorities. We will also be able to catch up on this follow-up piece. I would like to emphasise that it is extremely important that it is a working regulatory framework for consumers, for all companies that act properly and for the confidence of the authorities. On this point, we agree. We believe that this is clear in the legislative text.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-188	Madam President, I would like Following the Government's letter of 2019's report on the application of the Special Alien Control Act, a number of motions related to the subject have been considered. These are the ones we are now debating. It is an obvious starting point that foreign citizens who pose a threat to Sweden's security should leave the country. If for any reason that is not possible, these persons should be kept in custody or monitored in a safe manner. If that is the case, there is a broad majority in this House. The government is also actively working to remove obstacles to enforcement. The issue of diplomatic guarantees is also raised by the investigation into foreign affairs with security aspects in connection with detention decisions. In addition to the issue of enforcement barriers, the investigation includes a broad review of how Sweden should be better able to settle against terrorist threats. The investigation has also resulted in a series of fundamental proposals for legislative changes. According to the proposal, these are to be brought together in a completely new law. A large number of motions call for additional measures in addition to those proposed by the above-mentioned study. Among other things, there is a call for further or strengthened measures to protect society against persons considered to be security threats, but also for measures to strengthen legal certainty for the individual. A more general review of the Special Alien Control Act is also required. In this context, I note that the report of the study on a more effective framework for foreign affairs with security aspects has recently been submitted for consultation. There is therefore no reason for the Riksdag to initiate a new investigation before the preparation of the current investigation's proposal is completed. However, this does not rule out the need for further legislative work. In this type of case, it is of particular importance that the views of the relevant authorities should be put on the table. It is possible that important points of view will be made during the referral, which should not be overlooked. The completion of this legislative proposal before a new investigation is set up is desirable in order to ensure that we ultimately have the most effective, effective and legally secure legislation possible. In this connection, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 5 and for the Parliament to add the letter of the Government to the record.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-197	Madam President, I would like The threat of terrorism has perhaps fallen into the shadow of the current Corona crisis. However, this does not mean that the threat has disappeared. It remains and will constantly manifest itself in new forms. Sweden has, for a number of years, an increased level of terrorist threats. According to the National Centre for Terrorist Threat Assessment, there are individuals, both in Sweden and abroad, who consider targets in Sweden as legitimate and who have both intention and ability to carry out attacks. An important part of being able to save us from new terrorist acts is to ensure that people who are or can become a security threat to Sweden do not manage to stay in the country. The Special Alien Control Act allows the Security Service to take special measures against persons deemed to pose a security threat. For example, these could be people who can be linked to security-threatening activities. Ultimately, the person may be expelled from the country. The report being debated today deals with the Government's letter of 2019 on the application of the Special Alien Control Act as well as four follow-up movements and a number of motion requests from the general period of exercise. We have three reservations in the report. Of course, we are all in favour of this, but I am only in favour of reservation 2 today. The law on special foreign control has been severely criticised. In a special submission to the Government, the Security Service has pointed out that the legislation is unclear, difficult to interpret and difficult to read. The shortcomings of the law have also recently become apparent as foreign citizens, who pose assessed security threats, have been released because of obstacles to the execution of the expulsions. People who have been assessed by both the Government, the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Migration Agency as being a threat to Sweden's security can thus, in principle, move freely in Swedish society. This is a very unfortunate consequence to which many in Sweden, quite rightly, have reacted very negatively. A fundamental task for each state is to protect its own citizens. In connection with the so-called "Terrorist Agreement" in 2017, the Government undertook to review the Special Alien Control Act. But it took the government more than a year to set up the investigation that was a necessary prerequisite for going to the finish with it. A little over a month ago, the investigation was handed over A more effective framework for foreign affairs with security aspects to the government. It took three years after the government in the Terrorist Agreement promised to review the law. Madam President, I would like The starting point for the Moderates is that foreign citizens who pose threats to Sweden's security should leave the country. If, for various reasons, this is not possible, these persons need to be kept in custody or monitored in a safe manner. That is not entirely possible today. The study has carried out a thorough review of the legislation in this area and proposes a completely new legislation that stands on its own feet and not, as the current law, in its applications is dependent on the Aliens Act. The study also proposes a number of tightening up of legislation. It is now urgent for the government to return to the Riksdag as soon as possible with proposals on the tightening-up proposed by the investigation. But that's not enough. The investigation did not focus on the type of situations where expulsions cannot be carried out because of obstacles to enforcement, nor was it included in the investigation's directive to make such proposals. The committee notes in the report that the committee directives for the recently completed investigation were too narrow and that certain issues that created tangible problems were therefore not sufficiently addressed by the investigation and that the government therefore urgently needs to set up a new investigation to review what additional measures need to be taken to enable society to protect itself against persons considered to be security threats. Such an investigation should, inter alia, examine the conditions for increasing the possibility of holding persons deemed to constitute a security threat in detention in compliance with the principles of the rule of law and proportionality within the framework of the international conventions in force and strengthen the possibilities for monitoring in cases where expulsion cannot be carried out. A person who cannot be expelled or detained is usually subject to a so-called notification obligation. This means that the person needs to report regularly to the police. It is vital, then, that the person who has been deemed to be a security threat and who has been required to notify should also comply with it. The penalty for breach of the obligation to notify should therefore be reviewed. Furthermore, it should be possible to keep persons who have violated the obligation to notify in custody pending a judgment. Furthermore, we mean Moderates, a system needs to be put in place so that obstacles to the execution of expulsions can be removed by so-called diplomatic guarantees. Diplomatic guarantees can be concluded with other states on a case-by-case basis, but it should also be possible to go further and try to introduce the type of system that exists, for example, in the UK with more general guarantees. The government needs to achieve greater success in getting these security threats to leave the country. The threat of terrorism will exist for the foreseeable future. Political action is now required to solve the security problems facing Sweden.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-215	Madam President, I would like We are debating the report on the report on the application of the Special Alien Control Act, the law governing Sweden's ability to simply send people out of our country who are foreigners and pose a security threat. The law is not entirely undebated in this House. Since we entered the Swedish Parliament in 2010, the Swedish Democrats have been exercising on the strengthening of the law on special foreign control. The then alliance government felt that there was no need to tighten up, that expulsion, for example, should not be the norm and that the rules on detention and detention should not be tightened up. That line then held the Red-Green Government for four, five, six years, in fact, until the middle of this term of office. It is this historical development that we have had in the decade that has passed since the Swedish Democrats first exercised to change this law. For every responsible politician in the Swedish parliament it should be quite clear that the law must be tightened up and that it should have been done a long time ago, even before we saw these serious and mediated cases where a lot of people who pose security threats have not been able to be expelled and thus also released in Sweden with a duty to report to the police perhaps once a week. The previous governments of our country have described it as not having to use the law in the last year and therefore we do not need to tighten it up either. Arguments such as the fact that there has been no serious terrorist act linked to the Special Alien Control Act and therefore we do not need to tighten up the law, we have heard years in and years out from both alliance governments and red-green governments in our country. It is governments that have not put the safety of Swedish citizens first. Today, the situation is different. I would like to thank the bourgeois parties in particular for this, which have shown the momentum on this issue. It has gone considerably further and changed its position in a fairly clear way. Now they demand that expulsion be the general rule. We are now calling for the detention issues to be reviewed so that we can keep people in detention who pose security threats to our country. For the Swedish Democrats, this is absolutely self-evident. We also agree with the announcement proposed in the report on a new investigation that goes further and places greater demands on more measures against those who pose a security threat so that they cannot be released into Sweden when an expulsion cannot be carried out. The Swedish democrats have taken a rather clear stance on the issue: detention must be the main rule. Detention should also not only be linked to the possibility of deportation, but must also be able to be used precisely to ensure that serious threats are not released. The safety aspect must be able to be a factor determining whether or not people should remain in custody. It is a principle on which no other party stands. What bourgeois parties in particular are talking about now is to look at how the possibility of expulsion should be interpreted in order to keep people in custody, but when it is ensured that even with diplomatic guarantees you cannot expel even bourgeois parties want to release people who pose threats of terror freely into society. There is the dividing line between the Swedish Democrats and the bourgeois parties. That is why we also have our own reservation in the report, even though we are in the announcement, where we go far further and want to reconsider and be more creative in order to ensure that people who pose a security threat cannot be released in the streets and squares of Sweden or continue to network and spread extremist propaganda to promote, for example, violent Islamism. However, even in the world of Sweden's democrats, there may be cases where people cannot be held in custody. We may be forced not to keep people in custody. Then we must be able to look even wider in a new investigation, the Swedish Democrats believe, at what measures could be taken. The example of Britain was mentioned in the previous speech by the Moderates concerning diplomatic guarantees. We believe that another principle used in the UK, restricted leave policies, could also be included in the new investigation. The bourgeois parties do not want to go there so far, but we hope that this can be the next step in the fight against violent Islamism in this case. Should an imam who poses a security threat be able to visit mosques when the person cannot be detained? For the Swedish Democrats it is doubtful. We think it is necessary to look at the possibility of banning foreigners who pose a security threat from staying in certain places where they risk promoting the violent ideology for which they are to be expelled. Should they be allowed to choose which municipality to live in, for example? No, maybe we don't think it should be reasonable. Here you can perhaps review the risks associated with the place of residence or the residential area. Perhaps you should refer these people who cannot be expelled to live in a municipality where they can hardly network or pose a continued threat to our country. Should they be allowed to use the internet unlimited, communicate unlimited in Swedish media etc.? Yeah, we'll see about that. I think that Sweden must start looking wide and be more creative to ensure that these individuals do not continue to pose a security threat. However, there are no more parties in this House prepared to go. The Swedish Democrats are, as I said, the only party that has been crystal clear in its view of the law on special foreign control. We've been wanting to change the law for a decade. Now we have some limited action on the part of the government. Bourgeois parties want to go a little further. However, the Swedish Democrats want to go the farthest, because we always put Swedes first. I commend our reservation 6.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-228	Madam President, I would like People who pose a security risk should not walk freely on our streets. The police are supposed to keep an eye on them. If they commit crimes, they will be investigated and prosecuted like everyone else. If it leads to a conviction, it must of course be examined whether the person is to be expelled or not. But the law on special foreigner control is about those who do not commit crimes but are still a security threat. This makes the process around how legislation is used somewhat complicated. Because it is complicated and because the rule of law is contested, the Left Party wants to review the law and, above all, transfer the right of decision from the government to an administrative court. There are three major problems with the Special Alien Control Act today. No 1 is that it is now politically appointed ministers who decide whether or not a person is a security threat. I find it difficult to understand that order, how a politician can be more able to take such decisions than a judicial judge at a court – a judge who has better control of implementation and the exercise of authority and who is not affected by opinion polls, January agreements and to obtain different majorities to prove himself capable of acting, a judge who can take in intelligence in a professional way rather than interpreting intelligence from a political point of view. Problem No 2 is legal certainty and evidence. There is not yet a person who has a process of not being expelled according to LSU. This is because in the process with the Migration Agency, the Migration Court of Appeal and Säpo it is not possible to access the information that is the basis for the decision itself. For the person threatened with expulsion, there is no way to defend oneself against what the person is accused of. The evidence requirements in LSU are very low in comparison with the criminal procedure's requirement of Madam President, I would like Problem No 3 are persons who are to be expelled according to LSU but cannot be expelled because they are at risk of torture, for example, in the country of expulsion. Instead of deportation, they should go to a police station and show that they are still in place in Sweden through so-called notification obligations. However, if a person violates the obligation to notify, there will be no consequences at all today. No one has been charged with abstinence from the obligation to report, even though the offence may lead to a year's imprisonment. There is currently an investigation into LSU, and that is a good thing. To this investigation, the Left Party wants to add an additional directive to investigate the rule of law. It must simply be the same high standard of proof for LSU cases as for other cases in courts. There have been mistakes in the use of the Special Alien Control Act. In 2004, Sweden expelled two Egyptian citizens, who were then subjected to torture. Sweden was convicted in the UN torture committee. There are major problems with this legislation. I note that other parties are proposing diplomatic guarantees, something that Sweden had in 2004 when the people were expelled to Egypt. Those guarantees were worth exactly zero and nothing. There is currently a case where a person who has been an asylum seeker in Sweden has been expelled from Sweden to Turkey. The person is accused by Turkey of being a member of the PKK. It will lead to brutal treatment in Turkey, and he will be sentenced to life imprisonment. It is a human right not to be expelled to a country where there is a real risk of torture and inhumane treatment. In Sweden there have been remarkable tours around this case. The person's family has been promised that he will not be expelled for a few days later to see him shown up in propaganda images from Turkey. The Migration Board, the Migration Court of Appeal and the police don't want to comment on the case. This sums up the three major problems with the Special Alien Control Act. There is no clarity and no legal certainty, and it is more about politics than protecting our country from dangerous people. This law must be changed. I request the approval of reservation 7.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-239	Madam President, I would like In 2017, a terrorist agreement was concluded with the government. It was after the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan, committed by a man who stayed illegally in Sweden. It was clear even before then that Sweden had to be able to expel more people. The Terrorist Agreement included a review of the Special Alien Control Act. But it went over a year before the government even set up an investigation, and this investigation does not solve the problem. Nevertheless, the government parties in this House have voted against a committee initiative to broaden the mandate and provide a supplementary directive, given that the mandate was too narrow from the outset. The result is that we remain where we were in 2017. The Christian Democrats want people who pose terrorist threats to be expelled. But the government does not seem to want to do what is necessary for this to be carried out. The threat of terrorism will remain for the foreseeable future. Political action is now needed to solve the security problems facing Sweden. Madam President, I would like It is important that the problem be resolved quickly. The government must do what should already have been done, i.e. set up an investigation with the task of finding solutions to the problem and the situation. Key issues are how enforcement barriers should be assessed and whether it is possible to eliminate them. Consideration must also be given to how cases where it is not possible to execute expulsions should be dealt with and how society should be able to protect itself against persons considered a threat to national security. Furthermore, the consequences for persons who do not comply with a determined obligation to notify should be tightened. It should also be analysed how the other European countries which are also bound by the ECHR are working on these issues and what conclusions can be drawn from their work. Although the Christian Democrats do not believe that the proposals of the inquiry are sufficient, they are a step in the right direction. Member Mikael Damsgaard of the Moderates has well described this. Measures need to be taken to increase the opportunities for both detention and detention. It is unreasonable for those who are deemed to be security threats to be released directly into society. Electronic monitoring should be able to play a greater role than it is today. A person who poses a security threat and has been required to notify must also comply with it. The penalty for breach of the obligation to notify should therefore be tightened up and persons who have violated the obligation to notify should be able to be detained pending a judgment. Against this background, it is important that the Government urgently returns to the Riksdag with a legislative proposal in the parts covered by the investigation's proposal while investigating the shortcomings not covered in the investigation. The report contains a reservation on diplomatic guarantees. Agreements on diplomatic guarantees can be concluded with other states on a case-by-case basis, but it should also be possible to go further and try to put in place the type of system that exists in, for example, the United Kingdom and that we have heard of earlier in the debate. This means that general agreements with diplomatic guarantees are concluded with other countries to which persons may be expelled. I am in favour of reservation 2, which concerns this. With regard to the reservation relating to the anklet, we do not agree with the investigation. The benefits outweigh electronic surveillance to control foreigners who have been expelled because they pose a serious security threat but still remain in the country. The investigation has made a proposal on how such supervision could be designed, and the government should urgently return to the Riksdag with a legislative proposal.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-249	Madam President, I would like The law on special foreign control is a subject that we have put a great deal of political energy into lately, and for good reason. The issue strikes right at the extremely delicate balance that we must take between the security of the nation and of our citizens and the rule of law, human rights and the rule of law. This is therefore a subject that must be treated with the highest quality we can ever propose. Anyone who claims or suggests that this is easy has seriously underestimated the complexity of the issue, or understands it, but does not care either for the central value of democracy. In that case, it is quite clear, regardless, that one is not ready to deal with matters of this weight. Recently, the investigation that followed the agreement between the government and the alliance parties on how terrorism should best be combated in Sweden was presented. It addresses the gaps in the law that, among other things, the Security Service has highlighted. The investigation is good. It includes a large number of robust measures that can really make a difference to our country's security but, at the same time, is based on the obvious fact that we are building our security on the principles of the rule of law. Despite the fact that the investigation impresses, there is still reason to look deeper at just how we deal with cases of people who are considered potentially dangerous and have an expulsion decision against them but where enforcement barriers exist. Every stone has to be turned around. Every idea needs to be heard. A couple of concepts always come up when we debate the subject: the European Convention on Human Rights and diplomatic guarantees. Today's debate is no exception. As far as the European Convention is concerned, even though over the years there has been some back and forth, we now seem to agree that it should be respected – that we must not expel people if they are at risk of torture or the death penalty. Sometimes it almost sounds like this is something regrettable, a necessary evil that we would prefer to withdraw from or renegotiate. But, Madam President, the important thing is not that we are bound by the international convention. The important thing is that we do not want to expel any human being to torture or the death penalty. I hope that this too is a position on which we broadly agree. Diplomatic guarantees make sense and make sense, but we should bear in mind that the states in question have regimes that oppress their population and commit serious abuse. We are talking about Egypt, Syria, Iraq. This is precisely why enforcement barriers normally exist. Hooking arms with such regimes is probably not always very fruitful, and agreements with such regimes must be considered exceptionally weak. But sure, the possibility should not be ruled out. Madam President, I would like You can think what you want. You get to have any crazy ideas, and no thought can be forbidden, however repulsive it may be. But when one's opinion and thinking are translated into anti-democratic activities, incitement to violence or support for terror sects, the limit is the openness of our society. Everyone is free to hold a debate and make their voice heard. But no one is free to threaten, call for violence or commit themselves or contribute to acts of violence. Such acts are punishable, and more will be punishable by new legislation. Even for those who have not yet committed such acts but have a clear ambition to do so, there is a limit to the patience of open society. I would like to support the committee's proposal. With the draft announcement that we in the alliance parties have proposed and which today is the committee's proposal for a decision, we are taking a new step towards dealing with this issue of security as well.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-259	Madam President, I would like The subject of the day is the letter that the government has handed over to Parliament about our special foreigner control. It is a lot about terrorism, and it is very sad reading, given the way things look in the world and the report that forms the basis, about folly, hastideologies and violent love. These are people who want to kill to change, mindless. There is no principle of proportionality; it is a question of killing in order to establish one's own sick regime, dictatorship or whatever it may be. Death, fear and hatred are what these people live on and spread. We're a great country. We have freedom of expression and want to be an open country. We believe that people should be convinced by arguments. But it's not always possible. In the conflict of interests that arises between our mission and the Swedish Security Service's mission to protect the citizens of Sweden against these madmen, one must balance on a knife edge. The fact that we must be able to protect people effectively and the data on which the decisions to send these people out of the country as soon as possible must be balanced with the existence of some form of transparency and control. This is a form of control. However, anyone who believes that this can be taken to a general administrative court and have an open process is at best naive, unfortunately. Swedish democracy has not only the right to defend itself but is also obliged to do so. The question then is what to do with the people who are undesirable and are to be sent out but cannot be sent out because their homelands, to the extent that they exist, are places haunted – not by some positive higher spirit but by something worse. These are places where torture and executions take place and anything but human rights prevail. Should we send these people there? Many people I talk to say to me: Yes, just send them home; they have to blame themselves. But we must ensure that we balance and not at any price and deliberately send a person who is probably to some degree mentally ill to a certain death. This is also contrary to the international obligations which at least we Liberals think constitute a standard that we should sell into the rest of the world and not depart from ourselves. Having said that, there is now an investigation proposal that is moving in the right direction, in which we are actually tougher when it comes to being able to use more extensive coercive measures against these people. This is a step in the right direction. It is also unpleasant but absolutely necessary on this knife edge between naivety and the general attitude that they should only be locked in or sent to death without our concern. I would say that we are trying to go a liberal way forward. You want to work with the area of stay. It is not just a matter of notification, it is a matter of delimiting the area where a person is allowed to stay. There will be higher penalties for people who return and thus violate a ban on staying in the country. You should also be able to withdraw a residence permit in these cases. The issue of electronic surveillance is growing and has been addressed in the investigation. It is found that this does not add to what is desired. It is written, which is also my view, that the Security Service in practice has pretty good control of these people – but probably not all of them, we should be aware of. But those who are famous, I think you have a pretty good eye on. The investigation also looks at this with diplomatic relations, which have come up in the debate and which several parties want to go on. On the Liberal side, we believe that the question has been resolved as to whether these diplomatic relations are working. Just say: you will not receive any aid, but if you receive these people, you will receive assistance. However, diplomatic guarantees are a little problematic. They have been applied, and we in the Liberals would like us to look at this again – it is necessary. That is also why we are behind the announcement by the committee that we should look again at this, which goes against the will of the Social Democrats. The investigation is complete. It will collapse in referrals, positive and negative. Use this, and then we go on and look at both what kind of monitoring we can have and how long the lock-in can be – we must also be prepared to protect people in Sweden from this madness. We also make sure that we work with monitoring and diplomatic guarantees, as I said. This should be investigated, and I therefore call on the Liberals to approve the committee's proposal.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-270	Madam President, I would like Although some terrorists have been called on to stay away from Europe right now because of the spread of covid-19, international terrorism remains a real threat. Society and Sweden need effective tools to prevent actions. The Special Alien Control Act allows a person to be expelled if specifically required for national security purposes or if it may be feared that the person will commit or contribute to terrorist offences. In this context, the secret police have an important role to play in identifying security threats. After a notification, an appeal is made by the Finnish Immigration Service, which can be appealed to the Government. Before the matter is decided by the Government, the Migration Appeals Court shall give its opinion. If the opinion shows that there are obstacles to the enforcement of the death penalty or torture in the country to which the person is to be expelled, the government is bound by it. The expulsion cannot then be carried out. Madam President, I would like For the Green Party, it is fundamental that Sweden respects the international conventions to which we belong. If the expulsion of persons who pose a security threat is likely to result in torture, death penalty or other inhumane treatment, Sweden is rightly prevented from carrying out the expulsion. This was the case in the past, and it is still the case. We must always bear in mind that Sweden is a rule of law and that any regulations made must be compatible with the protection of human rights. The government has just carried out a review of the Special Alien Control Act, and the report of the investigation is now being referred. Among other things, the report proposes new coercive measures to increase the possibility of controlling persons who pose security threats and cannot be expelled. Therefore, there is no reason for the Riksdag to initiate a new investigation. In this connection, I would like to call for the approval of Amendment No 5, which is common to the Green Party and the Social Democrats.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-277	Madam President, I would like We are in the middle of a historic investment in Swedish police. The funding for the Police Authority is the biggest ever. For the period 2018 – 2020, the contribution is over 7 billion. Until 2024, the agency will grow with 10,000 more police employees throughout the country. It is an important initiative, which will make a difference in the fight against crime and in the work for a safer Sweden. The target of 10,000 more police employees is challenging, but gradually we see how the agency is growing. A few weeks ago, we were able to warmly welcome 610 new police aspirants to the agency. Only in my own county was the addition of nine new police officers, which is incredibly important when we have a police officer who is locally present throughout the country. Madam President, I would like Sweden should be a safe country for everyone. It is essential for our society to stay together. Society should be strong enough to protect people from everyday crime to serious organised crime and terrorism. Increasing social security is one of the government's and social democracy's most important priorities. It requires hard, patient and determined work over a long period of time and in a wide range of areas of society, both with law enforcement and with efforts to prevent people from getting involved in crime. This part is incredibly important in our debate. It is about being able to focus on what we are doing to combat the crime that exists and to prevent new people from getting involved in it. The single most important initiative to increase security in Sweden aims to get more police officers in the streets and squares and more police employees who can clear up crimes. Since the government launched the offensive effort on more police officers in 2016, we have now passed 4 000 more police employees in the agency. At the same time, we are implementing strong reinforcements of the whole legal chain. Gang crime is a serious social problem that must be combated from all sides; men's violence against women as well. With about fifty penalties, more resources and a stronger and more efficient chain of justice, we simply move forward the positions. The action programme against gang violence in Sweden is in the middle of implementation. These are both more stringent penalties and more and more powerful tools for law enforcement authorities, as well as social measures that stop recruitment to the gangs in the long term. Madam President, I would like The report we are debating today includes the motions on police issues raised during the general period of exercise. We in the committee reject the vast majority, sometimes because we think they are directly bad and sometimes because they have a focus where work is already going on within the government or because the government has announced that proposals should come to Parliament. But many times it is also because we do not believe that politics should be inside and in detail governing the Police Authority and how to organize their work there. With the major police reform, we have said that it should be a common authority and set the framework for the agency's work. I do not think the agency will be better or more effective because we here in Parliament every year, based on motions, will make decisions on which units to have or how to work or prioritise in detail. There are also some moves that we support. I would like to touch them briefly. The first one is about dance conditions. Demands for dance permits have been in the Order Act since the 1950s and have regularly been involved in the debate and discussion here in the Riksdag. The committee has also said in the past that it wants it to be abolished. The question has been investigated, and work is under way within the Government Office. I fully understand that this is an issue that has had to stand back in prioritising efforts to tackle gang crime and to strengthen legislation in many areas. I also think it is quite right to focus here and now on combating the pandemic we are in. But when we get through all this and Corona is no longer our everyday life, the message of the committee and Parliament is clear: The dance state is to be abolished. The second issue concerns customs law enforcement activities. Although the situation at the moment in coronatides is different, for a number of years we have had a major problem with international theft leagues. Some parts of our country in particular are affected. These theft leagues account for a large part of the housing breaches and the theft of, for example, cars, boat engines, car parts and agricultural machines in Sweden. This is something we can never accept, and it is good that the government has given the authorities increased resources in recent years and that new tools have been added, not least linked to border zones, and that more tools are on the way. It will have a major impact on the fight against cross-border crime. The government has also previously commissioned police, customs and coastguards to work together to see how to stop international organised crime. It is fun to find out about the accounts that came in the spring and to see how the authorities have started to cooperate more closely, got more efficient management and have been able to face this together with strength. But it also becomes clear that we need to do more. Here the committee shares the government's line that the Customs Agency needs to be given increased powers. That is also what we are making known today. Step by step, with determination and perseverance, we will push back crime and make Sweden safer.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-295	Madam President, I would like This is an important report. It concerns very important issues: Swedish police and the conditions for it to operate and do its job. This is an urgent matter. Right now, the corona is on everyone's lips, for perfectly understandable reasons. But, Madam President, more things are happening in our society – fortunately, perhaps one should involve. And citizens have every right to expect that the parliament in general and the government in particular, which actually leads our country, have the ability to deal with several different issues at the same time. The security crisis that Sweden is experiencing is fundamental. Things that previously raised very big headlines are often just announcements. There is something flickering by in the morning while cooking breakfast for the children or while watching the news in the evening. It is really deeply depressing with a society in which, unfortunately, people seem to have become accustomed to shootings and bombings. But it must never really be everyday in Sweden. It must never be normal, because these things do not belong in Sweden. Unfortunately, the figures are pointing in the wrong direction. The shootings were already last year, when we discussed these important issues in this House, at a very high level, as they did the previous year. They were then at such a high level that even crisis talks between the various parties of the Riksdag began, and the promise was made time and again. If there has not been a shortage of the last year, there are press meetings with politicians in responsible positions where change is promised. Now things were really going to happen. The work would be a top priority. The citizens were promised to see a clear improvement soon. Eight months have now passed since the end of the gang talks. But what has happened? Is it as positive as we can hear the government party describe – that organised crime is being pushed back? Or are these points produced in a meeting room while citizens feel something else? I think the answer to the question is in the police's own statistics, because the figures do not lie. We can evaluate the situation today and compare it with last year, for example. I am sorry to say that the shootings have not decreased in number. The shootings do not remain unchanged. The shootings have increased by 21 per cent compared with the same period last year. It's the same with the bombings. Explosives have not decreased in number compared to the same period last year. Explosives do not remain unchanged compared to last year. Explosives have increased by 12 per cent compared to 2019. Madam President, I would like I am convinced that the police are doing their very best. Many police officers in our country – I have spoken to many of them – are exposing themselves to great trials and even great risks in order to carry out their work, to be able to create order and to improve the safety of streets and squares for all people in our country. However, it is clear that the main objective – to reduce the number of shootings and explosives – has not been achieved. The responsibility for that, I mean, does not fall on the police. They do their job according to the conditions they have. The responsibility for the development of society lies primarily with the government, whose rhetoric of action and change and whose promises that things would soon happen are not at all matched by the political proposals that have been put on Parliament's table. They have stubbornly said no to many of the proposals that could actually have made a difference. They have not even taken all the measures that were said eight months ago to be the top priority. They said: Let's make change. Eight months later, however, work on several of these things has not even begun. Is it really having the necessary crisis insight? Is it really doing what it takes? Is it really to see what Sweden looks like in the spring of 2020? I think that Sweden needs to change direction. There are political proposals at Parliament's table. It's about getting more cops out and making sure more people get out on the outside. But there are no shortcuts there. Attractiveness in the important police profession must be strengthened. It's about raising a salary. It's about improving career paths. It's about making police training pay, just like it was before. These are things that I think could have an effect in the short term to get more people to apply for this important profession. These are punitive measures to ensure that those who have the bad judgment to commit crimes and who choose the course of the crime have a clear consequence and will not soon be released again and can commit new crimes. It is about improving the police tools so that the police can search for, not least, weapons and explosives that do not belong in society. It is also, of course, a question of prevention. It is about ensuring that the important role of social services and their work are strengthened. It is a matter of ensuring that they are better placed to intervene early and very clearly against the person who commits their first crime. We know, Madam President, that the person who robs his peers today is the same person who shoots and blows up tomorrow if we do not put a stop to this development. We have often heard gang criminals ask: Why did no one stop me on time? Why did responsibility fall between the chairs? There has not been a lack of conversation with social services. But I am thinking of those reforms. It is all too rare today, for example, for people to be moved to another environment, to pick them up with their roots removed from their criminal identity. It is only to be noted that there are very large shortcomings there. Madam President, I would like This report contains four different announcements. It is, for example, a question of purifying the police's duties. This is a very important issue in order to ensure that the police have the necessary resources to focus on what really matters to the citizens today. It's about the crimes of animal rights activists. It is also an important issue that affects a great many people in our country, who have their property destroyed and who are even threatened only because they are doing their job. There is now a majority in Parliament to tighten up that legislation. I would like to express my special thanks to the Center Party, which has been a driving force for us to be able to get this in place. We also need to strengthen customs law enforcement work. Summer is approaching, even if it may not feel that way today. This also brings the theft leagues that year in and year out on their theft tours in Sweden and who steal cars, car parts, boat engines and horse saddles. One problem for several years has been that customs simply lacks legal conditions and the possibility of detaining vehicles with suspected stolen goods at the border, which in practice means that it sometimes becomes almost free. This is not a new issue. Here, too, we have received promises from the government in the past. This would be dealt with. However, the latest information has been that it is not even certain that new legislation will be presented, despite the fact that several years have passed since the issue was raised for the first time. But it is good that there is now a majority in Parliament so that we can hopefully ensure that the government assumes its responsibilities and brings out the important legislation. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to endorse reservation 24.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-312	Madam President, I would like Swedish police today have major challenges compared to just a few years ago. The increasingly clear segregation leads to increased insecurity, which of course has direct consequences for the police. In recent years we have seen increased polarisation in society, and in many areas of exclusion confidence in society in general and the police in particular is in decline. As these areas become more numerous and overcrowding increases, it is easier for serious criminals to advance their positions. Every two days, there are reports of shootings involving gunshot wounds, often fatal, rape, robbery– even of children– and other serious crime. Many of these crimes come to the attention of health care and the rule of law, but underground are protective activities, drug trafficking and social misery which are the breeding grounds for future crime. Serious violence, an increase in the number of rapes and offenders who cannot be prosecuted are urgent police issues that cannot be resolved. In order to overcome these challenges, we politicians need to agree across block borders in order to arrive at a long-term legal policy. Madam President, I would like Police work is a unique work that differs from almost all other jobs. There are unique demands. The profession is surrounded by a unique responsibility and is associated with unique powers. This requires both legal knowledge and training in a variety of fields, practical skills and physical skills. Police work requires a mix of theoretical training and practical craftsmanship and, not least, police experience in order to master and understand the profession fully. The core activity of police work is to prevent, intervene and investigate crimes. This work is best done and managed by trained and experienced police officers. It is therefore important to maintain professional professionalism for police officers, just as it is important to retain professional teachers and health professionals. Sweden has a very well-trained police force, and we have a great need for these police officers who can take on the demanding and often dangerous tasks they are faced with. Knowledge and skills can never be compensated by a rapid increase in the number of civilian police workers, as is happening today with the aim of reaching 10 000 police workers. Many civilians are employed without any minimum basic requirements and without any requirement for relevant police training other than a short introduction or a few weeks course. Then it is expected to replace police skills. This is a very worrying and dangerous development. In the short term, this can lead to individual mistakes. In the longer term, it risks undermining confidence in the entire judiciary. Although many of these civilian police workers have other trainings and experiences, are nice and do a good job based on the conditions they have, it is a very worrying trend that runs counter to developments in most other professions, where one is expected to have a longer relevant education and as a police officer also a special ID. Because there are too few police officers and too many workloads, managers at different levels are forced to send civilians on missions where these individuals are not the right resource for the task. Despite the fact that civil servants should not deal with searches and other situations where there may be a risk of violence, this occurs. Civil servants are not prepared for the threat and violence picture that is out there. A situation can change rapidly, and if you do not have the right training and equipment, it can easily deteriorate. We need civilian police staff with specialist expertise in areas such as economics, the environment, criminology and law. Different complementary competences are important. But it must be the right person in the right place. What, then, is the solution to this? We need to ensure that the police profession is valued through higher salaries, better working conditions and, not least, that the police are relieved by civilian employees in the field of non-police work. Having said that, there is, of course, a need for civilian police staff to handle tasks that are unnecessarily burdened by the police. The police have very many tasks that are not about fighting crime. A number of these should be avoided in order to be able to focus on law enforcement. Much of the police's time is spent on administrative work. There, civil servants could relieve the police far more than is happening today. The police take care of about 60,000 drunk people each year. They have committed no crime, but well-trained policemen drive them, lock them up and then keep track of them in a sobering cell. A significant part of the business is therefore devoted to taking care of drunks and people with mental health problems. If these people are not violent, it should be a task for health care or any other appropriate unit. Other examples are that the police take care of dogs and cats. They also transport people in custody long distances across the country. When social services and others go home, there's only the police left. The police take care of society when many others are not present. The police are there all year round, around the clock doing a lot of things that are not noticed in the statistics because these data are not measured. If we want higher police presence and better law enforcement, we politicians need to review how we allocate resources in society and who is responsible for what tasks. We need more managers and police employees with a police degree and experience in police work. Madam President, I would like Today, we are calling on the government to investigate how criminal animal rights organisations should be prevented in their harassment of law-abiding farmers, hunters and others. It is welcome that this is happening, but it is a mark with too narrow a range. The Swedish Democrats have long advocated and continue to advocate the criminalisation of participation in criminal organisations. Such legislation would focus on a number of organisations, such as those now covered by the announcement, but also other violent organisations such as left-wing and right-wing extremes and other violent organisations that seek to influence society through criminal acts. We are waiting patiently for the day when more parties take note of this and once again join in Swedish democratic criminal policy. Until then, this step is both welcome and necessary. Madam President, I would like I will conclude by saying a few words about protected personal data for police officers. It has become increasingly common for police officers, especially those working in external service, to request protected information. It is not uncommon for police officers to be filmed by the public during interventions or investigations to be exposed to threats. Protected personal data is an important component for those police officers who want it so that they can feel safe and dare to do their job fully. In order to ensure the security of police officers and their families, the Swedish Democrats, together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, want to see a system in which protected personal data is granted to the police who request it. Madam President, I would like The police are the guardians of security. Swedish police are too important to turn into an item in a budget. We must stand up for the Swedish police in all situations and for the laws that we decide on. Swedish police should feel that we politicians fully support them. I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-334	Madam President, I would like The police are probably the authority that all citizens of Sweden have a relationship with – for good or for evil. That is probably also why the reorganisation of the police in recent years has attracted so much interest and been examined so closely by the outside world. We have followed the way the police have gone from over 20 different authorities in the country to a coherent authority. In addition, I myself have followed it closely as a member of the National Transparency Council of the Political Authority for two terms of office. You can say it's been a tough trip for the police. Some things have improved, but some things remain to be done. Accessibility needs to be improved. There are still long telephone queues and long processing times for some cases. Not least, emergency times must be reduced. Madam President, I would like In some rural municipalities, emergency time can take off hours or more – if the police come at all. Today it doesn't really feel like we have a police officer for the whole country. This is not acceptable. With regard to the number of police officers, it is nice that we should increase the number of police officers by 10,000 by 2024. Only then can the police seriously overcome issues of accessibility, emergency times throughout the country and, not least, the fight against crime. However, this requires a clean-up of police activities. I don't think it makes sense for the police to handle dance conditions, which may mean that restaurants have to apply for permission when they have a troubadour-- if people get up and dance. I'm glad the police will probably get out of this now, because this time we'll make it happen, right? Nor do I think it is a police task to administer permits for hotel operations. It is a somewhat outdated provision that does not encourage entrepreneurship very much either. The law enforcement that the police can do in connection with this supervision may be resolved through cooperation between authorities. If anyone is interested in illegal hotel activities, it is the municipality. In this connection, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 4. Madam President, I would like The most important thing about renouncing police operations is that the police can devote more resources to the most abominable crimes, which cannot wait for us to have more police in place. These include sexual offences, which have tripled since 2014, and offences on the Internet, especially child pornography offences. P4 Uppland reported on Monday that the number of cases where children are suspected of sexual abuse online is increasing while the number of investigators is decreasing. More people will be hired. But child pornography material seized has been up to a year without an investigation having started. In the shock digitalization we are currently in, due to the pandemic, where children and young people are asked to be at home, work and study, the exposure is total. And in fact, we have no explicit strategies to protect children from the increase in abuse that is now taking place online – not us, not the school, not the police. Friends! We have discussed this before in this House. One in 500 computers in a workplace shows abuse material. One in 100 users are actively searching. In the public sector, abuse is committed every week. Friends! We must ensure that detection tools become mandatory in all public computers, not only to block pages but also to track users. This must be done in order to protect children, to find and prosecute perpetrators and those who produce and distribute pornography online. I also call for reservation 32 to be approved. Let me say a few words about animal activism – this incomprehensible phenomenon where one does not really understand the motive. Violent and extremists actually threaten, destroy and cause more suffering to animals. How can they expect this to be a successful path? Previously, this was more linked to animals in cages. At least you could understand the motive. But when the measures taken by the activists make it worse for the animals and that hunters are threatened when they seek traffic damage in the wild; what do the activists achieve? In the last few years, we have even seen animal rights activists interfere with cow release. It's out of my mind. I can guarantee that a cow feels much better– feels a thousand times better– in a modern barn today, where the cow can go loose all year round, even if it is indoors, than in the idyllic, romanticized picture of what it was like to be a cow in a barn in the 50s or 60s. There's no comparison. I am very pleased that there is a majority in Parliament to mark against animal rights activists. There shall be a stop to public funds for identifiable organisations. It shall be a clear and detailed notification for the victims. It should be clear where the private land line goes so that it is possible to evict people. And above all, there should be reliable statistics and clear crime codes. It is good that there is a majority in favour of the proposal in committee, and it is a pity that some parties do not support it. We're heading for a summer that might be different. More people will vacation in the Swedish countryside – and that's a good thing. But there are things that some do not look forward to any summer, namely that crime networks – often international – commit criminal offences in Sweden. Systematically, boat engines, quadricycles, chainsaws, petrol and diesel are removed from their rightful owners. Many times the rule of law stands in hand. There is nothing as dangerous for confidence in the judiciary as when customs realizes that the car they stopped at the border contains stolen chainsaws, but the car and its owner cannot be held until the police arrive. Now the so-called collaborative investigation has concluded that customs powers need to be strengthened in this area. Stop, seize and retain goods or drivers while waiting for a surrender to the police shall be a matter of course – even if it takes an hour or a day. The current detention facility is too restrictive. I am pleased that a united committee is now pressing the government for this to be put into place quickly.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-351	Madam President, I would like The Left Party wants a present, locally established and knowledgeable police force that is present both in the countryside and in the suburbs. We want a police officer who knows his residential area, has a fair salary and a good working environment and wants to make Sweden a safe country for everyone. The police have one of the finest missions you can have; to create a Sweden for everyone where everyone is safe and safe and trusts each other. According to a research report from Stockholm University released yesterday, crime has generally decreased in recent decades. That's really good. Yet many feel very insecure. Explosives and shootings occur all too often. The feeling of cohesion is weak right now. Sweden is torn apart due to increased economic gaps. Society is more complex, and so is crime. It is now complicated to investigate crimes, and many different competences are required. It's about everything from how victims react in crisis to connecting dressings and finding stored information in a mobile phone. It takes an extremely competent police officer. Then it is interesting that the bourgeois, together with the Swedish Democrats, believe that the police's tasks should be refined, as if the police are currently doing a lot of unnecessary work that is not part of investigating crime and creating security. It is turning a blind eye to the complexity of police work. That is also why the same parties refuse to see that police training must become a university education with a vocational qualification. This is something that the police union, the Polisförbundet, thinks is extremely important in order to increase attractiveness and make more people want to apply for police training at all. For the police to be able to do good work, support for the police must be high among the population. Unfortunately, it is not in all groups. There are misunderstandings and unclear communication from the police, which means that it can be difficult to understand why, for example, the Nordic Resistance had to demonstrate outside RFSL's premises in Almedalen last year. This was something that made an enormous number of LGBTQ people, and many others, felt a great fear of their security. The decision may be taken correctly from a legislative point of view, but it created fear and concern. The police's work in communicating and working at demonstrations and conventions needs to be improved. The Left Party wants clearer training measures on issues of the Code of Conduct and the Code of Order. Today, there's a multiplicity of police work, and that's a good thing. But the work focuses almost exclusively on who is recruited to the police, not on how the police's work is to be done. It is deep in the police force that it is the white man who is the norm, and on that basis much of today's police work is taking place. That may be why racial profiling occurs too often. The report Randomly selected by Civil Rights Defenders and the Department of Criminology at Stockholm University shows that racial profiling is not about rotten apples within the corps, about individual events or about certain residential areas with different ethnic composition. These have proved to be bad excuses. Racial profiling is still taking place. People with other ethnicity are more often pointed out as suspects, to be criminals, than people with traditional Swedish appearance. And it's forbidden. That is why a general and long-term upgrading of skills is needed, not only for local police officers working in vulnerable areas but also for the police as a public authority. It is a question of multicultural competence and the complexity and difficulty of police work. Therefore, much knowledge is required. Madam President, I would like There is also an incredible amount of good work done by the police, and when I ride a radio car with the police in Region East every year, I am deeply impressed by every policeman I meet – from the police who sit next to the woman who has been raped to the police officer who investigates child pornography crimes. I have often raised the issue of working environment, equipment, IT skills, anchoring in vulnerable areas and all that needs to be improved. Much has improved, and much needs to be improved. But we have an amazing police officer in Sweden today. I'm in favour of reservation 14.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-362	Madam President, I would like It is a comprehensive and feedy report with many different proposals, motions and reservations being debated now. This is also evident in the debate, which is going in a slightly different direction and which highlights various aspects of the report. I wanted to focus in particular on the fact that the report contains proposals for four announcements. Parliament seems to be making decisions on requests to the government to return with sharp proposals, and quickly. An announcement concerns customs, where the Parliament is in complete agreement. Today, Parliament will once again demand that customs be given more powers. Most of the burglaries and thefts in Sweden are committed by international theft leagues. When they get to the border with stolen goods, customs cannot stop them today. The Christian Democrats demand that the law be amended; customs must be able to stop and detain both stolen goods and persons. The government has been ducking the issue for years. In February this year, Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg said that the law would be changed, but since then nothing has happened – on the contrary, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson has repeatedly denied that a change of law is under way. The government is trying to elude the issue, and those who are cheering are Europe's theft leagues. The lock for the pantry Sweden is still unlocked, and we can expect new theft raids when the borders are reopened after the coronapndemine. Parliament is today demanding amended legislation. It's not the first time, but I hope it's the last. The government must now act. However, as I said, there are question marks in the announcements that have come from the government. In a written answer to a question here in the Riksdag in March, the Minister of Finance swung, and only in an interview on 2 May, it was also unclear what the government is actually doing – what proposals they are working on. That is why today's message from the Swedish Parliament is clear. A completely united parliament will decide that this needs to be addressed and that the government must return, and urgently. Madam President, I would like Violent animal rights activists have in recent years become increasingly confrontative and active. Hunters, farmers, animal farmers and so on all testify to threats, vandalism and violence. So - called demonstrations, similar to harassment, are held near their plots, their borders and their lands. Not infrequently, these places are far from the nearest police station. This crime has gone under radar because the Security Service has not prioritised it as political extremism or kept statistics on it. It has to change. The Christian Democrats in this House have pushed too hard against the extremists who, under the false flag of animal welfare, are attacking entrepreneurs, families and people in rural areas who are working on organic farming, the management of the game population and keeping our countryside alive. The so-called animal rights activists are a threat to all of them, but by extension the violent animal activism threatens our future food security and free enterprise – and ultimately, Madam President, our democracy. The government is doing far too little to stop this, and I therefore support the proposal for a declaration on this matter contained in the report. Madam President, I would like Furthermore, the police must have time to fight crime. Everyone agrees, but far from everyone realizes what it means. Today the police are strained by tasks that are not directly law enforcement. Much is about transporting people that others could take care of – and taking better care of. It is a question of transporting sentenced people to prison and transporting them. Correctional services have been commissioned to take over this, but there is more to do. This could involve transporting drunks to sobering units, which, for example, security guards or other transport functions could do better. To ensure that a suicidal person is hospitalized, cared for and cared for, and the support needed, is now in the police. Here the Christian Democrats have previously put forward proposals to introduce psychiatric ambulances that would both provide much better care and relieve the police. All in all, these calls take a lot of time. Up to half the working hours, sometimes more, on different work sessions are spent on just drunks and people with mental health problems. There is much more to be done here to relieve the police, but above all to provide the support that people in a vulnerable situation need. We often talk about more police officers in the Swedish parliament, but we also need to talk about what the police fill their passports with. That's why I support the announcement that the police are being refined. I also call for the approval of reservation 2, which deals with administrative support. Experience from Uppsala shows that administrative assistants can further streamline and increase the number of police officers in external service. If you hired 375 assistants, it would free up working hours equivalent to up to 750 police officers in external service, according to the Police Federation. There are no shortcuts. We need to invest in getting more police officers, and we need to increase the attractiveness of the profession through targeted police wage initiatives – but we also need to see how we use the police forces we already have. That is why I am in favour of reservation 2. Under the coronapem, the police have also made efforts to enable police officers working in the police houses today to go out and work in external service. As many as 700 people have been produced. I think it is very positive and that you need to look at whether you can keep some of them in external service in the future. We need to focus on getting more police officers, not far ahead of time, but here and now, given that the problems of increasing crime are so great.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-374	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The police have made a long journey in recent years. We have a whole new organization in place. This did not happen without friction, but today we have a police officer who is in a position to work effectively. We have a Swedish national police officer, and that is very important. We have 32 458 employees in Swedish police. 20 458 are police officers – some of them are aspirants – and 12,000 are civilian employees. All of these are making great efforts to reduce crime and increase security. The measures that have been taken in recent years to gather together and strategically try to control the Swedish police have been good. I think that impressive efforts are being made during the current Operation Rimfrost, but we can also note that, despite this, shootings and explosions continue and that the situation continues to be serious. We have seen that digitalisation has finally taken major steps forward, but there is more to do here. As regards other administrative support, apart from technical or digital support, we in the Liberals point to this in reservation 2, among other things, together with others. This is where the police need to get better. The recruitment of new police officers is a particular issue. An important part of the January agreement – paragraph 69 – supported by the Liberals is that we should have 10 000 more police workers. This is linked to the fact that we want to increase police density and increase efficiency, but it is also linked to the fact that the population in Sweden is increasing. We have to have more cops in place, and this costs. It costs so much that we have to have better police salaries. It can be noted that between 2010 and 2014, police salaries increased by an average of SEK 3,200. Until 2018, they increased by 3,700, and we hope that by 2022 they will increase even more. For the Liberals it is an important part to improve the conditions for Swedish police. But it is not just about the issue of wages and the fact that wage agreements are getting stronger and stronger again, but it is also about other things. I mentioned recruitment. It is – and has been above all – a problem that too few want to apply. The recruitment authority has been partially down this year, partly depending on the corona, but the admission system now in place is more sensible and better. However, it is difficult – one cannot compromise with Swedish, talent and other things if one is to have police officers who are discreet and can use the state's monopoly of violence to reduce crime and increase security. Now there are five training courses in place, which is very important. We need to do more, and it is a responsibility of the Liberals, in part, to ensure that the conditions and the will to apply for it are increased within the framework of the January Agreement. But, as I said, it's not just about pay. I believe that it is a matter of prioritising and refining the police's tasks. Several people have been into this. When you dream of becoming a police officer, it is not the idea that you want to be a psychiatric ambulance; someone else can do this. There are many people in Sweden who feel bad, but it is the police who too often have to pull out several times the same day for the same person who is in crisis and to prevent a disaster. We can't have that. Others can do this, and perhaps even better. It is also about all the transport and hands-on cases that need to be handled. Many of these must be involved, of course, in the case of persons who are dangerous, violent or severely drug-affected. The drunkenness has been mentioned – all these people who find it difficult to put the cork in the bottle. As a result, people cannot take care of themselves, and they too often end up in a cell with the police. They should, of course, end up in health care, partly to get help to check if they often drink too much, partly for health reasons. It happens even from the death of people as a result of alcohol poisoning, and this is not the police experts on. We need to streamline our duties. When it comes to lost horses, cats, spiders, snakes and mine holes, it is the police who get involved. We must also do something about this. We've been talking about this forever. It's time to put your foot down. Liberals demand that the police be police officers. We believe that leadership and further training are important. In our contacts with the Police Federation, this is quite obvious. If we are to have more police officers who want to develop, they must be given the opportunity to develop in the profession. Here, too, more can be done. Several police officers with whom I have spoken– almost everyone, in fact– also point to their wanting relevant legislation, because sometimes it doesn't make sense to take the same drug driver in Karlskoga time and time again. We are unable to ensure with criminal and procedural law that this person is given care and treatment and probably a longer time lock-in to get help with their huge problems. Right as it is, such a person kills someone. Then it is not the police's fault, Madam President, but the responsibility lies with us here. We need to have more relevant legislation for people who relapse into crime and who have serious problems, whether their driving force is their own misery – unfortunately – or whether they are simply looking to usurp economic benefits through crime. It's also about social services. I meet many police officers who are desperate for all the young people who are in what I usually call a mental ice age, where only the crimes attract. We can see in the media today that the activities of the sports movement are decreasing, but they are increasing in the gangs. We can't have that. Kids are going to play basketball, dance, go to the Scouts or do the theater. They can paint or do whatever they want, but they shouldn't hang out with the criminal gangs. Here we have much more to do, because the police do not have the opportunity to be a recreation centre. Young people should activate themselves, not in crime. On the Liberal side, this report also points out that cooperation with other authorities is important. The police must be allowed to become even more prominent in cooperation on serious crimes. We have debated this here before, and it is solid. Cooperation with customs is also included in this report. Customs must become a clearer part of the fight against crime. It was said earlier that Sweden cannot be a pantry – the Christian Democrats said it in this House, and I think it was very good. We see that the problems of theft leagues are decreasing, but we need to have better interaction between law enforcement authorities. Now this is on its way. Liberals are very happy about it, although it has taken far too long. Another point we make in the report is that we are now reviewing the regulatory framework for security guards. They will complement. It will be a while before we have so many more police officers that security guards are not needed to the extent that they do today. It is an out-of-date piece of legislation, and it is an important complement to reducing crime and increasing security for citizens. There are reservations, but this is about to happen. Speaking of pantry, we have a breach of stores. People step right into Ica Maxi and eat a grilled chicken on the way out, and you can't do anything. How hard can it be to have a ban on access here? For Liberals, this may also apply to libraries and baths, which are important places where gangs and crimes should not be allowed to ravage. Today we have lunch bag home, so no one will have to starve in Sweden. It's not a right to go in and steal food or whatever it is at Ica Maxi, Coop Forum, Willys or whatever their name is--I don't want to advertise any particular supplier in these times of debate on lobbying. Drunk driving I mentioned earlier. We need to do much more here. We were talking about ordinary drunk driving, but we need to allow more random checks so that we can move forward in this area. Of course, people who drive around drugged on the roads are harming others on and off. Crimes committed by animal rights activists have been mentioned here in the pulpit. I agree – these are people who are completely blinded by madness and refuse to accept that we in Sweden allow you to sell leather jackets and that you can be an eco-bond. This can't stand some people. Here we need national strength to gather better. This is also included in the report. Finally, Madam President, we do not live on an island. Sweden – hopefully also after Corona – is an open country where we work together with other countries in our vicinity. We welcome the intensified cooperation between the Nordic countries with cooperating Swedish-Finnish and Swedish-Norwegian police stations. This is excellent. At European level, my friends, it is absolutely crucial. In an open Europe, which is the fundamental idea of the Liberals and which I also believe is very good for Swedish citizens in every way, we must also make law enforcement more effective. That is why the strengthening of Europol, European police cooperation, which we advocate in the long term, is so important. That is why, Madam President, I am satisfied that, on behalf of the Liberals, I am only in favour of reservation 49, but of course I support all the reservations. I'm sorry for running over time. I got so involved.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-398	Madam President, I would like There is much to be said about this report. However, in my speech I will focus on the motion on safe and secure football and living supporter culture. I've been going to football for almost 20 years. Since I was twelve years old, I have been sitting or standing at Stockholm Stadium or Stockholm Arena. I have experienced euphoria, sorrow, fellowship, frustration, ecstasy and pure joy. Unfortunately, many times I have also seen what does not belong at all in a Swedish arena or in society overall of course. I have seen sexism, racism, homophobia and in some cases violence. Of course, we are united in condemning as much as we can. But, and this is an important but, it has gone in the right direction; it has improved. In almost all ways, disorder of order has decreased in Swedish arenas over the past 10 – 15 years. It's not a coincidence. It is a consequence of collaboration and dialogue. Police, football clubs and supporters' associations have all joined forces behind the shared vision of safer football for all. They've been working together. Together, they have created an approach that is dialogue-oriented and built on national and international research. This has made Sweden an example that now attracts interested people from the rest of Europe. From country after country you come to Sweden to study how we handle these issues. The consequence and the positive trend is that the security of the arenas is great and that the experience of security is great. When Swedish elite football implements its annual satisfied-supporter index, it shows that 17 000 respondents feel safe in Swedish arenas. And remember who are the supporters! It's anybody. It's a friend, a grandmother, a father or a neighbor. The positive trend has been steady until recently. The police have put the successful Swedish strategy all the way. Instead of engaging in dialogue, it has begun to subject its permissions to arbitrary and late announcements. These terms are about in different ways making it more difficult and banning different types of expressions of supporter culture or love for their team. These are unnecessary restrictions on the number of supporters per section, on rules against the tiphone, for example which messages should be placed on banners, and so on. The new approach used by the police is called the "conditional stairway". It creates the experience that the police see the supporters themselves, all the supporters, as the problem instead of addressing the few in the context of the disorder. Since this method is legally insecure and partly concerned with collective punishment, it threatens to undermine confidence in the police as an authority. And it is not better that the police keep the documents on which they base their decisions secret. The risk is that this will have the consequence that supporters will turn against the police, that confidence will be eroded, which in itself creates more uncertain matches. Madam President, I would like I want more people to experience euphoria, grief, community, frustration, ecstasy and pure joy in Swedish arenas. But it must be done safely, and then the police's methods need to be fundamentally reviewed. Otherwise, they themselves contribute to the insecurity that they claim to want to combat.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-407	Madam President, I would like A well-functioning police service is a prerequisite for a secure democracy. The police should be able to work preventively against crime, while at the same time being able to act quickly if something happens. They should intervene against those who violate the laws but also be able to meet citizens, victims and relatives in a good way. It is a tough job, and it requires that the police have good opportunities to carry out their missions. The environmental-partisan and social-democratic government has made a historically unprecedented effort on the police with a massive addition of resources. Among other things, the number of employees will increase by 10,000 in the Police Authority by 2024. But a safe society with low crime also requires a focus on crime prevention. It is with reduced marginalisation and vulnerability that we can really create a more secure time and future. Time and again, the police themselves highlight the importance of a compensatory school and a functioning safety net to prevent crime. An equal school, early intervention and equal access to care and support are the most humane and effective ways in which society can prevent it from going wrong. Madam President, I would like If things go wrong, the focus must be to support reintegration into society. Punishment should always have as one of its goals that the sentenced person should be able to return to a life that is law-abiding. There must also be possible exit routes for those in a criminal context. A national defector program is a point against gang crime in the government's 34-point program, and a joint mission has been given for its execution. So far this year, several types of crime have been reduced, such as apartment offenses and assaults at the restaurant, as people stayed at home more than usual. At the same time, violence within the four walls of the home has increased. Unfortunately, this is not a new social problem. Nearly one fifth of all assault offences in 2019 consisted of relationship violence where the victim and the perpetrator were in a relationship. The risk is that the number of darkness is high. Reporting your partner to the police can be very difficult. It is therefore essential that the police have the right skills to deal with those who have been abused by a loved one. Even children are severely affected by domestic violence, either because they themselves are victims of abuse or as witnesses of abuse by one guardian. When children are victims and witnesses, it is of great importance that the police have the right skills. The interviewer shall have a specific training course and follow the guidance available in the field. Crimes in close relationship, crimes against children and honour crimes are types of crime that need clearer focus from society and from the Police Authority. As Minister for Gender Equality Åsa Lindhagen says, we can never accept that people do not have power over their own lives. It is therefore gratifying that the Government is pressing for the need to increase the competence in these areas in the regulation letter to the police. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to emphasise that important work is under way to strengthen the ability of the Political Authority to carry out good work. With a good working environment, good conditions for doing the work and more colleagues there are conditions for the police to contribute to a safer Sweden. I would also like to take this opportunity to ask for the approval of reservation 31.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-416	Madam President, I would like I called for the approval of reservation 3, which was wrong. I am behind the announcement of the crimes of so-called animal rights activists and, instead, am in favour of reservation 51.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-417	Madam President, I would like I think there are many of us who are very proud of our country in the difficult times we are in. Our democracy is strong, not only when we take the necessary distance from each other and spend more time in our forests and soils and are reminded of how beautiful a country we live in, but also when we look out over the world and see how states use the Corona crisis to suppress their population and restrict democracy. One expression of this is that we are discussing today issues that do not have direct bearing on covid-19. It may seem strange, but to me it is sound proof that democracy works. It is an important debate that we have today. One can see it as being about democracy in itself. A democratic state does not violate the human rights of its inhabitants. It must also do its utmost to ensure that no one else does it either. The fight against organised crime is the fight for the freedom of our citizens. How this struggle is conducted is also a question of democratic ideals. The rule of law must be protected when we choose the means to achieve our objectives. Much has already been done, but more needs to be done. In order to hit organised crime hard, we must prevent young people from entering it. This work does not fit within the Committee on Justice. It's about a good school, early social work, work and faith in the future. Criminals must at the same time be arrested, punished and then come out better. There is no contradiction here. We cannot afford to put important efforts against each other. Criminal policy is not for the one-eyed. On the table of the Committee on Justice, there have been a great many good proposals on how to fight crime in our time. If we had had a slow government, I would have gladly voted in favour of many of the proposals put forward by the opposition, but for me politics has never been about breaking open doors. The government's on the balls. Now a lot of investigations are working to eject the best possible legislation in detail to reach where many movements point. Conversations across block borders have also been conducted to take new joint action against gang crime. This resulted in a to-do list for the government that has come to be called the 34-point program. Here are some examples of the fruits of this work. In order to remove serious criminals from the street, it will be investigated whether more crimes often committed in gang environments need to be punished more severely in order to reflect the seriousness of the crime and provide the possibility of mandatory detention. This has worked very well for the weapons crimes. What we're talking about is robbery, aggravated assault and serious blackmail. The penalty for young adults should now be limited in the case of serious crime. To this shall be added everything else that the government has initiated outside the gang talks. Recently, we in this House tightened the penalties for murder. Now we're putting a lot of money into the police. The government's objective of having 10,000 more police employees by 2024 has already led to a significant increase in the number of police staff. These were some examples of how we strengthen freedom in our country. The right to a fair trial is another human right that a democracy must uphold. Anyone who prevents the judicial system from investigating crimes and holding the perpetrators to account is hitting our democracy. Gangs that threaten victims and witnesses in order to avoid facing the consequences of the law should face severe opposition from a determined and united democratic society. Here too, the government is at the forefront of work. An investigation is now working to enable stronger legislation. At the same time, it also investigates how to better protect witnesses. Few phenomena threaten freedom in our country as much as sexual violence. According to studies, one in five women has suffered sexual violence. The Government has therefore commissioned an investigation to work with: 中 review the provisions on sexual harassment and consider whether a serious crime should be introduced 中 analyse and review the rules on criminal liability for sex offences at a distance and on the exploitation of children for sexual posing; 中 analyse whether the concept of sexual intercourse in the Criminal Code needs to be changed 中 investigate certain issues of trace-proofing after sexual offences . review the scale of penalties for sexual offences and propose any changes that may be necessary to adequately reflect the seriousness of the offences. In addition, I would also like to mention the investigation into criminalising the call for someone to commit suicide. It is a horrendous behaviour that we have been able to read about in the newspapers and which, of course, should be punished during its own criminal harassment. The government will soon be in a position to bring forward a legislative proposal to Parliament. This was a sample of everything that is now happening in the field of criminal law. Unfortunately, we don't have time for everything today. Finally, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 27.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-435	Madam President, I would like We shall now debate the motion report on criminal matters. In many respects, criminal law needs to be tightened up to better reflect the seriousness of the crime, to provide victims with the redress they deserve and, not least, to repress crime. Of course, there is not a solution to increase security in Sweden, but there need to be a lot of different things, not least crime prevention. We Moderates want zero tolerance against all forms of crime. This means that crime should be combated, whether large or small. Moreover, successful law enforcement work cannot focus solely on the type of crime that receives the biggest headlines – gang crime – but must also focus on the type of crime that is a bit carelessly described as everyday crime. But, Madam President, it must never be everyday to accept crime. Crime and insecurity not only harm individuals who are victims of crime, but crime also damages confidence in the whole contract of society. It is a dangerous development if people begin to doubt society's ability to maintain law and order. Madam President, I would like We Moderates have many good proposals, we think, in the area of criminal law. I do not have time to go through all our motions, but I will focus mainly on the announcements that we propose that Parliament address to the government. We have a government that is setting some kind of world record in the number of press hits, but there is very little concrete happening out in the streets and squares. The results are missing from the promises that have been made. We note that, in the case of many of the promises made to the Swedish people, the work has not even begun. You can always describe it through points of speech – that something is going to happen or that something is going to happen – but we should stick to what it actually looks like. The work is going very slowly, and this is hard to get away from. At the same time, there is another type of force for action elsewhere. In the report, the Committee on Justice is no less than seven announcements to the government. One of these concerns severe punishment for normal rape. It is an announcement that Parliament is once again addressing the Social Democrats and the Green Party. In the National Security Survey of the Council for Crime Prevention, more than one in three young women now testify that she has ever been subjected to a sexual crime. Many young women, as well as women of other ages, recognize the fact that one sometimes chooses a different route or way of travel because of fear of being subjected to crime. It is not acceptable for so many women, for fear of being subjected to crime, to have their freedom restricted in this way. Madam President, I would like Rape is a very serious crime that should have a higher penalty than today. The government must listen to the Riksdag and urgently return with a bill to scrape the punishment for rape. Breaking and entering, especially in your own home, is a very integrity-impairing crime that affects too many people in Sweden. This weekend we could hear on the news that criminal gangs are now taking advantage of the Corona crisis and breaking into premises and shops where there is less activity now than before because both work and association life takes place digitally. We have also heard of gangs that deceive older people to try in different ways to get into the elderly's home and steal valuables. It's just terrible. We Moderates have been pushing for a long time to introduce a new crime classification for what we call burglary with a minimum sentence of one year's imprisonment. In this report, the committee once again proposes an announcement to the government to return to Parliament with such a proposal as a matter of urgency. This report also proposes an announcement of increased penalties for grand theft. Madam President, I would like It is all too common that the victim of a crime is threatened in various ways not to report the crime or that the witness of something is frightened to silence. Anyone who forces someone not to tell us what has happened, or who threatens a witness, threatens our entire rule of law. Society must show strong opposition to this type of crime, and witness protection must be strengthened. Following this debate, we will be debating the report on procedural matters, where we Moderates have a number of reservations, among other things, about anonymous witnesses. In this report, a majority in the committee proposes that the Riksdag announce to the government that the penalties for abuse of the law should be tightened. Madam President, I would like Furthermore, the Committee on Justice proposes that the Riksdag address an announcement to the Government regarding a restraining order. A person associated with criminal groups who have committed repeated crime should be prevented from returning to, for example, their old residential area. The aim is, of course, to ensure the security of residents in a particular area and to counter and break up criminal groups. Furthermore, the Committee on Justice proposes that the Riksdag should issue an announcement to the Government that legislation on confiscation of criminals' assets needs to be tightened up. Madam President, I would like In addition to the announcements that I have now announced, the committee also proposes that the Parliament should issue an announcement to the government that the call to commit suicide should be criminalised. In addition to these proposals, we have moderated several other proposals which unfortunately have not won a majority in committee this time. These include the strengthening of criminal law protection for blue light personnel, the strengthening of penalties for gang criminals, the revision of the statute of limitations and the abolition of the so-called 'quantity rebate'. Of course, we Moderates support all our proposals in this report, but for time to come, I only ask for reservation 33.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-456	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the report on criminal matters which deals with many of the issues that affect a great many people in society who are victims of crime or who know someone who has been victims of crime. And, of course, those who carry out the crimes are very much affected by the debate we have today, the decisions we take and what the government finally chooses to proceed with. There are a number of announcements in this report, based on the support of the Swedish Democrats, in which we call on the government to do certain things. Many of these announcements are those that we have made in this House in the past. We have chosen once again to address announcements to the government because we feel that there is no proper governance in justice policy and precisely in the area of criminal law on the part of the government. Perhaps it is a little because it is precisely the opposition in the Swedish parliament that often directs announcements to the government that cause the government to actually do something in the end. But it is also most reluctant that the government does just that. Believe it or not, we can say from this pulpit that we should tighten the penalties, but we can mean completely different things depending on which party we belong to. When we Swedish democrats say that we want to tighten the penalties, we mean that it should be a consequence for the convicted and a redress for the victim. But when a Social Democrats say that they want to tighten the penalties, they mean that it should be a consequence for the convicted but also an opportunity for the convicted. These are the various points of emphasis that we have and which often lead to such differences of opinion as to whether the penalties are sufficient or not. When the Social Democrats choose to tighten the penalties, they do so with the emphasis that the convicted person should have the opportunity to become a better person and ignore everything from the victim's perspective as a rule. That's what I think the public's bothering. People all too often feel that very serious criminals can commit very serious crimes but that penalty rebates, quantity rebates and opportunities are included for the convicted while ignoring the right to redress for the victim of the crime. There is the dividing line in legal policy and in criminal policy. I think that is important to point out when it sounds like the Red-Green Government wants to tighten the penalties. It should not surprise you to be disappointed in the end if you want to see clearer consequences for those who commit very serious crimes. To overcome this, of course, it requires that we have a government that emphasises redress for victims and prioritises the possibility for those who have committed serious crimes to ultimately become better people. So we need to look at how we tighten up the penalties so that they also include a greater part of redress for the victims and become a greater social mark against what is serious crime. In this report, like several other parties, we have a great many reservations about moving forward with clearer criminalisations that lead to more serious consequences for those who commit the crimes. This is, for example, what has been raised in several debates, i.e. participation in criminal organisations. There we continue to talk about animal rights activists. But I'd like to call them animal rights terrorists. This is what defines this group. It is not the concern of animals that defines this group of individuals but the working methods, and it is terrorism that these individuals engage in. They want to influence legal industries through violence, threats and intimidation. In the previous report, we have an announcement to the government on this, which also points out that we may need to look at the particular crime of participation in order for the judiciary to have access to these individuals. They may have committed many individual crimes with a low penalty value. But the context makes it very serious consequences for those who are exposed. In this way, the many crimes of low criminal value can be seen precisely in their context and lead to the judiciary getting more muscle to go after a higher penalty scale to get at individuals who may be more difficult to identify for individual crimes but who in a clear context are part of the criminal activity. It is precisely the crime of participation that I believe is very important in order to get to the animal rights terrorists and to provide redress for the industries that are being subjected to this activity. Another very clear dividing line in this report is shown by the Swedish Democrats' reservation 49, which relates precisely to the life sentence and what we have chosen to refer to as a custody judgment, which exists in various forms in Norway and Denmark, among others. We in Sweden lack the ability to keep people in prison for crimes with a fixed-term punishment, despite the history of these people and clear signs of relapse into crime. These may be ideologically motivated terrorists who commit crimes with a certain penalty value which is fixed in time but which, at the time of release, are in danger of committing very serious crimes. There must be an opportunity for the judiciary to keep these individuals in prison, just as can be done in Norway and Denmark. So far, only the Swedish Democrats see that this need exists. This can be the case with repeated cases of female abuse, where we have many clear examples of how there are shortcomings in our society. Men can beat women to death and come out after a time sentence and then beat women to death again, again and again. Although the prison services know that there is a great risk of relapse for these people, they are released – with the policies of the Social Democrats with even two thirds release. Here is a very clear dividing line. The Swedish Democrats are presenting to the Swedish Parliament the proposal for a retention sentence as an opportunity to ensure that no dangerous individuals are released into society and commit new serious crimes that affect innocent people. Madam President, I would like That is the reservation, reservation 49, which I would like to endorse in this debate.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-469	Madam President, I would like I think there are times when all thinking people despair when they question the meaning of what they are doing. Not infrequently I can feel frustration that important issues are pushed away behind symbolic issues that at best can make Sweden a little safer but which are often used mostly as bats in the fight for the headlines. However, this is not such an opportunity. The report we are now debating, the criminal law report, gives me hope and confidence for the future. It contains a large number of serious proposals which, in the vast majority of cases, have been made in the best sense. Not everything is fully thought out, and other things can surely encounter both practical and principled obstacles. Nevertheless, I believe that all those who have worked with the motions we are now dealing with have had the best intentions. There are a lot of things that really deserve space in this kind of debate. I'm thinking of all the ideas to push back the gang violence. I am also thinking of things that are about protecting us from what is so personal insulting: being subjected to burglary in one's home. Sexual offences are of course extremely serious, and despite the fact that we have fresh legislation in place, there is reason to look further at how we can protect victims and prosecute perpetrators. However, what I intend to dwell on most in today's speech is another, extremely important matter. Common to all the types of crime I mentioned earlier is that they are in fact already the subject of a great deal of political attention. Many of the ideas put forward in the report are those discussed in the gang talks last autumn, and a great deal is becoming a reality. Other things have recently been addressed in new laws. However, in many cases there is reason to go further than the government has done, such as when it comes to penalties for rape and burglary. But it is high time to focus on what most of us think should be at the top of the agenda. It's hard to say without sounding cliché, but the children are the most important thing in our lives. They are our future, and we put their happiness far above our own. At least we should. For many years, the Center Party has been struggling to bring about a law of peace for the very crimes committed against children, a particularly child-restraint crime. If we are serious about children being the most important, it must also be stated in our laws. Children are particularly vulnerable. They are completely at the mercy of adults. Just the purely moral aspect of putting children first is reason enough. But there is, of course, much else to be gained by doing so. Children who grow up in families where violence occurs are much more at risk of developing violent crime themselves. It's no wonder, though regrettable and extremely sad. When it comes to violent extremism, there is a clear connection, well documented in research, with regard to right-wing extremism. It is probably also true of other forms of violent extremism. Perhaps not everyone knows that in Swedish law child abuse is not a particular crime in the criminal code. It should be, Madam President. We must introduce our own child abuse crime involving both physical and psychological abuse. We must also strengthen the protection of children who witness crimes in close relationships. They find themselves in an extremely vulnerable situation and often get psychological scars that remain in place for many years, perhaps a whole life. These children need better protection than is the case today. These children deserve better protection than is the case today. Friends! Colleagues! I do not expect you at this point to change your mind and support the Center Party's reservation on this. But let's discuss it further. I am happy to answer questions and I am more than willing to work forward constructively so that, when we debate next year's criminal justice report, we can agree to put children first and introduce a child-relief crime. I would like to express my agreement to reservation 4 on the child-relief crime.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-480	Madam President, I would like Sweden is now the world leader in road safety. Nevertheless, several hundred people are killed each year in road traffic, and thousands of people are injured. The number of accidents in traffic must be reduced. The Left Party wants to do three things to increase road safety. We want to impose fines based on income, we want more traffic cameras to be set up, and we want a drunk driver who causes a fatal accident to be convicted of manslaughter instead of causing the death of others. Speed is the most important factor in the severity of the consequences of a road accident. Therefore, the speed of our roads must be reduced and more people must comply with traffic rules. And if you drive too fast, you should feel the fine. This is not the case today, as everyone, regardless of income, pays the same amount based on how many kilometres too fast they have driven. It is quite unreasonable for those who have a fat income and drive too fast not to notice when a fine tag comes while a low-income person can have the entire monthly budget overturned. It is a huge injustice that speeding fines are not based on people's income. You shouldn't be able to pay yourself free from punishment. It should feel as hard in your wallet. It should sting just as badly to drive too fast, whether you are a cleaner or CEO. Today it hurts a lot for some people, and for others it is not noticeable at all. There is also a need for more speed cameras. It is an effort that saves 20 lives a year, and 70 people are saved from being seriously injured. Cameras are located where they are most useful, on roads where high speed occurs. Speed cameras reduce speed. This also applies to CO2 emissions. So it's good for everyone. Therefore, the Left Party wants to give Trafikverket the opportunity, in cooperation with the municipalities and the police, to put up more speed cameras in areas where it runs too fast. I'm in favour of reservation 52.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-485	Madam President, I would like Christian-democratic justice policy is based on the realization of human imperfection. Crime has always been and will always occur. It is the task of the state to strive to limit crime as far as possible. It is essential to maintain people's confidence in the police and the rest of the judiciary. A functioning judicial society requires that those who break the law be prosecuted and punished. It is important to protect law-abiding people, to restore victims and to maintain a signal system of what is right and what is wrong. But it is also important to enable the offender to pay for his crime. Madam President, I would like This debate concerns criminal matters. It is clear also in this debate that the Riksdag has a majority that sees a need for action beyond what the government has presented so far. Today's report contains proposals for seven announcements where a majority in committee sees a need for legislation to be amended. The proposals concern various issues. The Christian Democrats are behind all these announcements. I see them as important steps to counter crime. Inciting someone to commit suicide, for example, is a behavior that causes obvious danger or harm to the victim. These are actions aimed at fundamental values such as the right to life and health. As has come to light, in certain circumstances calls for someone to commit suicide may constitute such ruthless conduct as to result in criminal liability under the new wording of the punishment for harassment. However, according to a majority of the committee, this is not enough and therefore a declaration is relevant. Madam President, I would like The number of reported sex offences has increased sharply in the last ten years. In 2007, 12,500 sexual offences were reported. In 2017, the figure had increased to 21 991. A significant proportion is rape. According to the latest national security survey, 6.4 per cent of all Swedes reported sexual offences. 10.7% of all women reported being exposed. Between 16 and 24 years of age, as many as 34 per cent have been victims of sexual offences. In that age category, 44 percent stated that they are so insecure when going out in the evening in their own residential area that they avoid it. Society's response to sexual crime must be unambiguous and powerful. Sexual crime is a gross violation of personal integrity. That is why we Christian Democrats believe that the minimum penalty for rape should be raised from two to three years in prison. I am pleased that there is also an announcement from the committee. Madam President, I would like Housing break-ins are something that affects many people in our country. They are generally considered to be grand theft. In many cases, it leads to a prison sentence of between six and eight months, which in practice often means conditional sentences and fines. As breaking and entering the home represents a major violation of the privacy of the person affected, we want to tighten the penalties for breaking and entering by introducing a new offence – burglary – with a higher penalty scale than that applicable to grand theft. This would mean that more people would be forced to serve prison sentences for burglary than is the case today. A burglary in the home is often perceived as very offensive, although the value of the stolen goods is not so great. Housing offences today lead to low penalties. In order to ensure a reasonable level of penalties for housing offences, a new criminal classification should be introduced. As mentioned earlier in the debate, organised international gangs are often responsible for burglaries and thefts in Sweden. This can range from major shoplifting to theft of agricultural equipment. During the 2014/ 15 parliamentary year, the Swedish parliament announced that the work against housing offences should be prioritised. In the same year, it was also announced that the Riksdag was meant for the government to return with legislation on a new crime – burglary. The Christian Democrats believe that it is time for something to happen now. It is very good that there is an announcement. Madam President, I would like The costs of retail theft continue to increase while traders have few tools to use to curb development. In order to ensure that employees and customers are able to feel safe, it should be possible for traders to apply access bans to those who behave threateningly or steal repeatedly. The inquiry into the matter has been submitted to the government, and we now expect the government to present a proposal urgently to introduce a ban on access to stores. Madam President, I would like I would also like to raise the important issue of stricter penalties for drink-driving and the problems we see with after-suppression. Today, the penalty for drunk driving is a fine or imprisonment for a maximum of six months. We believe that the penalty is too low in comparison with both the risk of alcohol-affected people and the consequences they cause in traffic. Therefore, the penalty for drunk driving and heavy drink driving should be increased. In April 2019 SVT examined which penalty was most frequently imposed for drink driving. It turned out that barely 1 per mil of those sentenced for drunk driving were sentenced to prison. Some half of those who were convicted of aggravated drunken driving got out of prison. The investigation was prompted by a very tragic case. It was about a recidivist, both in drunk driving and in other crimes, who had killed a 14-year-old girl in Central Sweden. He didn't have a driver's license, and the car was grounded. He was sentenced to probation for assault just before the girl was driven to death. If he had been sentenced to prison, it wouldn't have happened. The Christian Democrats have also pushed the issue of a ban on drinking that means that drinking alcohol is not allowed for the first six hours after a traffic accident. Today, it is possible for drunk drivers to walk free when they claim to drink after and not before a car accident, because it has not been possible to prove when the driver has taken alcohol. The parliamentary parties have agreed on the issue of the introduction of a ban on drinking, but the government has chosen to go on the line that it is not a crime in itself to hide a crime. The Christian Democrats are very critical of the government's conclusions and believe that people who put their fellow road users at risk should be stopped and not escape because of a loophole in the law. We therefore believe that a ban on drinking should be introduced. With this, I would like to conclude by saying that we support the announcements made in committee management and also the reservations made by the Christian Democrats in this report, but I choose to vote in favour of reservation 31 only.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-503	Madam President, I would like What if everyone could just behave and follow the law? That would be great. We are talking about criminal law. It is very important, but it must also be remembered that this is part of what is being done to reduce crime and increase security. A lot is about what regulations you have before someone can be punished in Sweden. What is done with young people who should play basketball, dance or do something else instead of engaging in crime before they are 15 years of age, that is, before they are of criminal age? What we do before then, Madam President, is very important. The question is what they do afterwards, if they were first convicted of a crime and get one, two, three, four or five years in prison – whatever. Or no, it may not be the same, but it depends on what crime it is about. What is being done in prison? What work is being done for people to get better out? Do they receive rehabilitation, education or treatment? If they get to work, do they get new knowledge that will make them law-abiding? All of this is important for reducing crime. Criminal law is set to be relevant. I would say that, as it looks today, it is relevant to all of us in here, to the neighbours on my street and to people who are essentially – perhaps apart from some speeding from time to time – law-abiding. People today comply with the law, and the differences in the value of the penalty are relevant to the various crimes and the offences identified in these crimes with props. What, then, does criminal law help? Does it matter if we tighten the penalties for a series of crimes? It is important to remember that the research – although not unambiguous – indicates that there is a clear lock-in effect. It's called a nappacitation. This is quite good when it comes to people who are notoriously unable to refrain from committing crimes. When they're locked up, crime decreases. It therefore has an effect on the reduction of crime. There are a number of studies that clearly point to this. This must be set against having people locked up, even if it is good. However, this is good because, as someone pointed out earlier, criminal law is not just there to be effective. It is also normative. It is not least a question of redressing victims. It is also about in different ways marking for the police, among other things, how to prioritise. The police are supposed to give priority to the worst crimes first. So the question is whether there is a deterrent effect. I believe, Madam President, that most people in this House do not refrain from beating any fellow Member of Parliament today simply because we have tightened the penalties. Let's hope they don't do it anyway. Several are nodding in agreement, which I am pleased about. But I think there's another context outside. Indeed, according to the research, there is no clear evidence of a deterrent effect. This is connected with what I said earlier. People who are locked up can't commit crimes. It is also clear that for people living on crime, criminal law is not relevant. They are not included in the category of MPs, good civil servants, vice-presidents and so on or the neighbors on my street and the people you meet in the grocery store. Then all this doesn't matter. And then we are back in that we need to look much more seriously at people who relapse into crime and people who commit multiple acts time and again, who do not in desperation steal a car but deliberately and cynically engage in taking cars out of the country and be to the great disadvantage of emergency services, insurance collectives and others who pay for this. It is clear that organised crime, serious crime, can only be met with a huge steel hand. That is why we must tighten the penalties for this. Re-explained crime, organised crime and multiple crime lead to incapacitation, reducing crime among so-called lifestyle criteria. There is a story that we are always tightening up the penalties; we have just heard that crime has been reduced. Well, that's pretty good-- then we have a direct connection there. It's a little simple research I'm doing now. But we can also look at the research done after the Supreme Court in Sweden halved the penalties for drug offences. There was a clear trend towards the effects of this on crime – we are discussing the rather serious crime today. This is due to the fact that, of course, the efforts of drug profiters, who live on drug sales, have been reduced when the penalties have been halved. But I will not say any more about this, but I would like to return to the importance of our prevention. As I mentioned in the previous debate on the police: If we are to reduce crime and increase security, social services need to have a completely different mission and quite different tools, so that sooner and more clearly we can ensure that young people stop their criminal activity. But it's also about the end. I would like to point out from the Liberals that sanctions are important. I think it is reasonable that we really should do something in this country. There is a lot that we need to lift after the end of the coronapndemine, once it comes, but what I am talking about is substance abuse. We must ensure that more people who end up in crime are convicted and punished. The penalty must also be given a substantial amount of substance. It can be contract care or treatment in an institution. They need a different kind of help. There are quite a few studies that show that it looks different in different parts of Sweden and that there are too few people who receive care for the criminality that they engage in at the far end in the mourning grounds of the drug swamp. There we need better sanctions. That is why, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 51.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-515	Madam President, I would like I never got any very high grades in mathematics. But one thing I do know, and that's that zero times anything is zero. This makes procedural law so important. It doesn't matter what punishment we have if no one is sentenced to them. But to the equation must also be added Sweden's commitment to ensure a legal system that upholds human rights and freedoms. As legislators in the rule of law, we must strike a balance between efficiency and legal certainty. This makes the debate on motions in the area of procedural law one of Parliament's most important issues. It is through a free and committed debate that we can together be better at finding the optimal balance point. When crime takes new forms, the tools of society need to be reconsidered. Every time must seek its point of balance in the legislation. And our time is now. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to thank all the committed Members of Parliament for the plethora of concrete and exciting proposals that have been submitted to the committee in this part. One factor that is often entirely decisive for the conviction of offenders for the crimes they have committed is that there are witnesses who can assist with their observations in the review of the Court. A study is now working to propose measures to improve support for witnesses and consider measures to strengthen the protection of witnesses. The mission also includes assessing whether the scale of penalties for the abuse of justice, perjury and protection of criminals should be tightened up. The assignment will be presented in May next year. Madam President, I would like Today, we have much better opportunities to use cameras to both prevent and clear up crimes – of course thanks to technological developments, but not least because in recent years we in Parliament have made a series of decisions on legislative changes that have facilitated the use of cameras in law enforcement. A new camera surveillance team entered into force as late as August 1, 2018. But we won't stay there. There is now a legislative proposal that provides for a simplified procedure for the supervision of public transport and pharmacies, areas in which we know that the vulnerability to crime is high. The government's so-called 34-point programme states that the police need better opportunities to operate in border areas in order to combat cross-border crime and gang crime. The Government also commissioned a special investigator to consider whether the Police Authority has access to sufficiently effective tools in border-by-border areas. Madam President, I would like A quick reaction to a crime gives the victim an immediate redress, the perpetrator a clear response to the crime and society a better opportunity to break a criminal path. It is therefore with great pleasure that we have seen the government initiate a trial with faster prosecution for young people under the age of 18 in northern Stockholm. How, then, have the authorities succeeded in shortening the path from crime to trial? Yes, including through faster criminal investigations and new methods of communicating the documents to the parties. In this way, society avoids that the processes get bogged down and take unnecessarily long time. The government has now ensured that the experimental activities are expanded. Madam President, I would like Secret coercive measures can sometimes be absolutely crucial to counteracting and resolving the most serious crimes. This is an important part of a strong judicial system. At the same time, however, it can mean a major breach of the privacy of an individual – for the suspect, but also for persons close to him. It is important to find the right balance point in the balance between these interests. To help us, we have the international commitments in relation to human rights to stick to. New legislation has been adopted on secret data reading, data storage and signal scanning. There is extensive work going on in the field of coercive measures. A proposal for a simplified procedure for certain decisions on secret interception has recently been submitted to Parliament. Furthermore, the report on legal safeguards and secret coercive measures is being prepared. The Government's action programme against gang crime also includes a point that makes it easier to use secret coercive measures in the area of serious and organised crime. It is impossible in a debate like this to tell us everything the government does and has done in this area. But I hope that those who listen at home really see that there is an enormous amount of work being done and that the direction is clear. Sweden takes shape against organised crime and never settles for being one step behind the development of crime. To conclude, I would like to express my support for the reservations in which there is a supposedly different majority relationship in this House from that in committee. These reservations are 7, 11, 19 and 20.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-528	Madam President, I would like The Crime Prevention Council last week announced that the number of reported offences decreased by 5 per cent in April 2020 compared with April 2019. It is too early to draw any conclusions from this. But it is probably due to restrictions in the traces of the pandemic. However, the decrease occurs from high levels. Compared with February 2020, for example, with February 2019, the number of reported offences increased by 10 per cent. In 2019 8,350 rapes were reported, an increase of 6 percent. Youth robberies, i.e. children who rob children, have increased by 125 per cent since 2014 to a total of 2,485 robberies in 2019. The gross violence in gang crime has increased apace. What we call shootings is murder and attempted murder. What we call blasts are powerful bombs. During 2019, 257 crimes of public destruction were reported through blasts, which was an increase of 59 percent compared to 2018. That someone can put a bomb in a property is hard for us here to understand. How one can be so indifferent to the fact that completely innocent people and sometimes even children are at risk of injury or death is completely incomprehensible. Nothing excuses harming other people that way. You always have a responsibility for your own actions. Madam President, I would like The report we are debating today is a motion report which deals with proposals from the general period of exercise in the area of procedural law. In the report, the committee proposes that the Riksdag address four announcements to the Government. The first concerns a review of secret coercive measures. For example, the police should be able to look at a particular person via remote camera surveillance. The second concerns increased possibilities for the use of preventive coercive measures, for example to prevent terrorist offences. The third is that the rules for seizures and searches should be adapted to modern technology. This may, for example, apply to materials contained in the cloud. The fourth is increased possibilities to seize expensive status symbols from gang criminals. Madam President, I would like In addition to the four announcements that the committee proposes that the Riksdag address the government, this report contains several proposals from the Moderates to strengthen the work against crime in Sweden. One of these is a reduced limit for compulsory detention. Today, the threshold for compulsory detention at the minimum sentence is two years' imprisonment. With a view to removing serious criminals from the street, we want to lower the threshold for compulsory detention to cover all crimes with minimum prison sentences for one year. This means, in practice, that more criminals would be locked up directly in connection with the crime and be detained until they start serving a possible prison sentence. Among other things, this change would result in crimes such as aggravated assault, robbery, and gross blackmail. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to mention our proposal on anonymous witnesses. It is extremely important, as the previous speaker mentioned, that people dare to testify even when it comes to serious gang crime. However, there are many who do not dare to testify, even though they really want to stand up for the good of society. I understand those who are afraid. You can ask yourself the question: Would I have dared to testify if my family were threatened? I don't think the answer is obvious to anyone. Witness protection must be strengthened. Therefore, we want the government to return to Parliament with a bill that will allow the testimony to be given anonymously in some cases. Last year, a majority in the Riksdag issued an announcement to the government that anonymous witnesses should be introduced. I hope that the government does not take this important issue too long. Madam President, I would like We Moderates are, of course, behind all our reservations. Today, however, I am only in favour of reservation No 23.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-544	Madam President, I would like We are living at a time when serious crime is increasing in our country. Gunshots are becoming more common, and organized crime has taken over entire residential areas in some parts of the country. It is also a time when insecurity is increasing in people in general. More and more people say that they feel insecure when they are in certain places. Developments are worrying, and we need to take it seriously. Many measures need to be taken to reverse developments. One of them, of course, is that we need more policemen in the streets and squares, something that most people here now agree on. But that's not enough. We need to provide even more resources to the police, but not only to the police, but also to the entire judiciary from the police to the penitentiary. We need to work for stricter penalties. It is not only for the purpose of punishment but also for the protection of victims. In a functioning legal society, those who break the law are presumed to be prosecuted and punished. It is about protecting law-abiding people, giving victims redress, maintaining a signal system about what is right and what is wrong, but also about giving the offender the opportunity to pay for his crime. The fact that we as politicians cannot jointly formulate a clear and clear answer to how this is to be done is incomprehensible. We need to work preventively far more than we do and to prevent young people from falling into crime at an earlier stage. We need to review the powers of the police and the other judicial authorities. We must ensure that the judiciary has more effective tools to prosecute crime in different ways. The report we are discussing today contains a number of such proposals that we will announce to the government. One of them is to expand the possibilities to seize expensive cars, watches and other status symbols from gang criminals, and another announcement concerns preventive coercive measures. the possibility of using preventive coercive measures such as secret interception of electronic communications, secret camera surveillance and room tapping in order to stop serious crime, such as terrorist offences, need to be extended; It shall be sufficient that there is a risk of terrorist offences being committed in order to make use of these means. Madam President, I would like A well-functioning chain of justice, where every part of the judiciary has the resources, powers and means to do what is necessary to ensure the security and security of our society is in everyone's interest. Legal proceedings must be effective but legally secure. The developments we see in society require us to extend the possibilities of investigating and prosecuting crime. One such thing is the duty of witness. It is an important cornerstone of our legal system, but is challenged by criminal elements in society that want to establish parallel societies or parallel legal structures. Threats to witnesses are not an abstract phenomenon but a reality in today's Sweden. Today, many are afraid to testify. This is particularly true in areas under the control of organised gangs, where violence is often a means of threatening or silencing witnesses. Threats to witnesses have become more and more common in Swedish legal proceedings. In order for more crimes to be cleared up and for there to be more convictions, a system of Crown Witnesses and anonymous testimony is needed. With the introduction of a Crown Witness system, there will be higher demands for witness protection. As a result, more people will have the courage to witness, and not just as crown witnesses. It is unreasonable to have a situation in which witnesses sit in the same room as criminals and know that if they say something that does not match the offender's version, it will have devastating consequences for one's or one's family. In addition, the absence of witnesses carries the risk that the criminal will receive a lower sentence and that the offence will be milder or, in the worst case, the offender will go free. This is a development that we Swedish democrats want to prevent. By introducing an opportunity to testify anonymously, the propensity to testify, both in police questioning and in court, will increase. As more people will dare to testify and tell what has happened, this will also have a spinoff effect as more criminals are punished for serious crimes. There is, of course, a back and risks of anonymous testimony. This must therefore be investigated in order to achieve balanced regulation and to avoid the problems that anonymous evidence may pose. But correctly used, it is an effective tool in the fight against organised crime – something that Sweden so badly needs. In the case of Crown Witnesses, this is something that already exists in many other countries and has proved effective in tackling serious crime. This means that a person can tell about what has happened and indicate former accomplices or others with whom they have somehow cooperated in the framework of organised crime. By doing this, the Crown Witness receives some kind of advantage, such as a penalty discount. Properly used is this powerful tool that the judiciary will benefit greatly in the fight against organised crime. Madam President, I would like There are a number of proposals in the report that are positive steps in the right direction. These are proposals that we Swedish democrats have been pushing for a long time and for which we are now hearing in a way that we are of course happy about, although we would have liked to see a faster change in legislation and in some cases we would have liked to go further. Finally, I would like to say that we support the four proposals on announcements that exist. I request the approval of reservation 28.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-564	Madam President, I would like The security of our country is primarily for the police to maintain. As we all know, this is an extremely topical issue. It poses a major societal challenge in many ways and in many parts of the country. In this debate it is a question of combining strong measures with a great deal of legal certainty. This is a report that is full of proposals and full of reservations, and I shall choose to highlight some. Camera surveillance has become an established and effective means of fighting crime. At the same time, we must keep integrity high. The new Camera Protection Act offers more opportunities than before, and more suggestions come. But the Center Party believes that it is a missing proposal: the possibility of camera surveillance in hospitals. We believe that this should be investigated and introduced. The fact that threats occur to people who are the heroes of everyday life, not least today, and who work to save lives is totally reprehensible. I hereby take the opportunity to ask for the approval of reservation 5. Madam President, I would like It is essential that the authorities have access to secret coercive measures. However, there must always be a careful balance between the infringement of the individual's privacy and the interest that the legislation seeks to safeguard. Investigations are ongoing. We have a bill on secret interception, data storage and data reading. In the so-called 34-point programme, there are proposals for measures that can better use secret coercive measures against gang crime. Madam President, I would like Combating serious organised crime is an extremely important issue. Efforts on the whole of the judiciary are crucial here. An important part of the fight against serious organised crime is the willingness, and above all the courage, of witnesses to participate in judicial proceedings. It is therefore welcome that an investigation is now looking at further measures to strengthen the protection of witnesses. This will hopefully lead to more crimes being cleared up in serious organised crime. We note that work is still ongoing in several places to improve the safety and security of witnesses and others who appear before the courts in order for them to want and dare to testify. It is crucial for us to be able to obtain more convictions. Police work on personal security and witness protection has a fundamental role to play in protecting individuals and thus the entire legal system. Madam President, I would like The Center Party believes that the police need to be given the opportunity not only to protect one person but also to take over responsibility for support for this person for some time. It is a responsibility that the municipalities currently have. Better functioning protection could also mean that, for example, women who are victims of violence in a close relationship dare to leave a violent partner. In order to get more people to witness, the rules that limit the possibility for people to get witness protection should be reviewed. It is therefore a good thing that there is a special investigator in charge of considering measures to strengthen the protection of witnesses. The work is in a hurry, and I therefore call for reservation 29 to be approved. Another area that needs to be improved with regard to witnesses is processes where children are involved as victims or perpetrators. It may also apply to children involved in a judicial process as a witness. Today, children are entitled to their own representation when they are victims of crime, but not when they witness violence. Investigations have been carried out about a so-called child peace crime. Children will be victims of crime even when they witness violence between their parents. In LVU cases, cases under the Act on the Care of Young People, children are today entitled to their own representative but not when it comes to investigations within the social services. The Center Party believes that children should always and unconditionally be entitled to their own representation in all investigations and legal proceedings. We also believe that legal proceedings involving children must be prioritised and implemented urgently, considering that the police should streamline their activities. We are prepared to discuss whether and how to safely limit the time-limited processes involving children. Finally, I would like to say a few words about pre-trial restrictions. We discussed – and I think we also decided – this in last year's report. It is important to investigate and clear up both the amount of crime and everyday crime. There are indications that prosecutors are currently using excessive pre-trial restrictions. One can get the impression that in many places it is perceived as an obligation rather than an opportunity to restrict pre-investigations. We assume that the government is actively working on last year's announcement to review why preliminary investigations are closed. This is very important in order to increase the legitimacy of the Swedish judicial system.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-579	Madam President, I would like A functioning rule of law with a functioning legal order is essential for a good society. The judiciary must be developed so that it can meet tomorrow's needs and pressures and also guarantee the legal security of its citizens in an internationalised society. In a good society, democratic values and values are transferred from generation to generation. Without these, relationships between people will not work in everyday life. Trust and trust must assume that respect for each person's unique value is incorporated in every fellow human being. The task of the state of law is to provide a framework for these values. It shall aim to create a community of security and respect between people, and it shall contribute to maintaining the fundamental values of society. The debate we are now having concerns procedural matters, and it is clear also in this debate that Parliament must push the government ahead of it in order to have a sharper formulation of justice policy. I note that, up to this fourth report that we are now debating, there are 16 proposed announcements. As far as procedural matters are concerned, there are four. Madam President, I would like One of the announcements concerns a review of the rules on secret coercive measures. The police authorities are asking for simpler rules to facilitate remote camera use for reconnaissance purposes. The Christian Democrats believe that the police should be able to look at a certain person via remote camera surveillance because in some areas it is not possible to follow a suspect on site with a handheld camera. The Christian Democrats believe that the legislation needs to be amended to allow hidden camera coverage at a distance. Although much has been done in this area, there is a further need to review the legislation and to adapt the rules on secret coercive measures to current conditions. Another announcement concerns increased possibilities of using so-called preventive coercive measures to prevent serious crimes. We want to provide an opportunity to use preventive coercive measures to prevent, for example, terrorist crimes. A majority in the committee proposes an announcement in this area. It is also proposed to issue a notice adapting the rules on seizures and searches to modern technology. I would also like to touch on the announcement of increased possibilities to seize expensive cars, watches and other status symbols from gang criminals. There is a good example: Criminal Assets Bureau in Ireland. There they work in such a way that when a court order is in place, they search and seize watches, jewelry, bags and luxury cars if you can't explain how you got over the assets legally. The Irish model reverses the burden of proof: a person with an expensive watch, an exclusive car or a lot of money needs to account for and prove how he legally earned the assets. We believe that Sweden should also investigate how this approach could be incorporated into a Swedish context. As regards the organisation of the work, it should be considered whether the Swedish public authority co-operation can follow the Irish model with a special civil law unit or whether the best is continued work in collaboration but with stronger muscles and a clear mission that each authority should prioritise the work. We believe it is important to work more forcefully to seize the status symbols of gang criminals. A greater focus on assets would discourage young people from entering crime. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by mentioning the proposals on anonymous witnesses and Crown Witnesses. Witnessing is a social duty in Sweden. There are few legitimate reasons not to appear as a witness. Yet fear of reprisals makes people not testify. There are examples where both bombs and serious violent crimes have been directed against those who have wanted to witness or accepted their responsibilities as witnesses. Testimonies are an important foundation of the judicial system, but they are challenged by elements in society that want to establish parallel legal structures or stop individual trials. It is a matter of direct threats and direct violence in connection with the crime, that people are sought after the crime or that they are offered financial compensation for not participating in the legal process. Many have great anxiety about witnessing. This applies in particular to evidence relating to gang crime and serious organised crime. It is a defeat for the whole of society when people silence for fear of reprisals. That's why we're proposing enhanced witness support. And just as in Denmark, Norway and the Netherlands there is an opportunity to have anonymous testimony in certain exceptional situations, it is time that Sweden also investigates and introduces it. It should be able to operate in specific types of criminal proceedings and when there are serious threats from gangs. Sweden should also introduce a system of Crown Witnesses, which in exchange for certain advantages can break the culture of silence in particularly vulnerable areas. Madam President, I would like We welcome the fact that an investigator has been commissioned to analyse whether it is possible to introduce both Crown Witnesses and the opportunity to testify anonymously. However, it is important that this work is carried out urgently and that the government returns to Parliament as soon as possible with a bill that allows witnesses to give their testimony anonymously. I would like to conclude by saying that we support the announcements proposed after committee management. We also support the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats in this report. However, I choose to apply only for reservation 27.
i-be75a8ad4ea29e93-598	Madam President, I would like Most of the procedural law is regulated. Its core is regulated in the Code of Criminal Procedure, a terrible old law that came into being in a completely different Sweden. However, the principles of need, purpose and proportionality are important for when the state is to be allowed to intervene – when to use coercive measures, secret or not; when to arrest, arrest, seize things held by criminals and so on. I think it is time, Madam President, that we took a broader approach to this. However, it is very bad in a motion report like this, where there are a lot of creative proposals from our colleagues in this House, and a lot from ourselves, about what we are going to do to essentially streamline the measures to combat crime in general and serious crime in particular, the people who have chosen to be completely out of the law. From the Liberals' side, we point to a number of things – both in the majority text and in a number of reservations – which we think are important. It is very wise that has been brought forward from the previous speakers here. We find this with secret coercive measures incredibly unpleasant but incredibly necessary. It must be able to be used more, and we believe that there is a need for a broad investigation into this. We also include the preventive coercive measures, which are even more unpleasant. To be able to use them very early in suspected very serious crimes, such as terrorism, is necessary. There are also transparency mechanisms to ensure that there is a need, a purpose and proportionality behind such coercive use. We also believe that the rules of search to get to the gangs who commit serious crimes are important to review. Not least the government helps with that, and that is good. What was said in the previous interventions by the Christian Democrats about the seizure of status symbols was welcome. Most of these people we meet are hopeless and gross criminals, but they are not by definition sadists. They are completely unsettled and literally go over corpses, create corpses, but they do it to earn money and have status. That's the driving force. That's why it's so important that it doesn't pay off. If we can strike this in the way Ingemar Kihlström so creditably told us in this House, we shall do so. I think that is quite right: take the cars, the gold bells, the bags and what the fabians can be – excuse me, Madam President! Make sure there's smoke! Then it'll be powerful. They are insensitive to prison sentences because they have so little to lose. But being able to live the flea without going to work is their driving force, except that they are totally callous. On the Liberal side, we do not think it is unproblematic with anonymous witnesses. However, the question of Crown Witnesses has been conducted by the Liberals for some time, not least by Crown Witnesses in cases where a witness explains where a crime change is, where weapons are located, where drugs are located, where instructions and documentation about a crime are available to ensure that it can lead to a conviction when the culture of silence has taken over. Kronwitnesses in this sense seem to us to be quite a reasonable measure. It reinforces the interest in telling the truth. Anonymous witnesses are a difficult issue, but the Council of Europe is clear that it is possible to use anonymous witnesses. The central point is the practice of the Council of Europe – that there is the possibility for the defence to question, through the judge, the information provided and that, for natural reasons, these cannot be the only evidence because the witness is anonymous. But there are opportunities, and the judge – who is the judge – always makes his own evaluation of the evidence. Of course, an anonymous witness alone is rarely enough. This is also reflected in the Council of Europe's practice. There I think that Sweden is taking a step forward. Then there is the same thing here, Madam President, as with the other reports on cooperation between authorities. If the police cooperate more and more in the Nordic countries and at European level, we believe it is important that the prosecutors also do so. When we talk about Europe, we see it as important to bring together the power of Europol, but also of Eppo, which is the European Public Prosecutor's Office. It's central to reaching power. It is not unproblematic, I would like to emphasise, but it is an increased strength in an open Europe where it is all too often felt that criminals benefit far too much from transparency. They should not be able to wreak havoc, as we discussed earlier today. Madam President, I would like On behalf of the Liberals, for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 31, but, as always, I support all the Liberal positions in the report.
