i-5710f0140e75dd18-1	Madam President, I would like This spring has certainly been a trying time. In just a few months 4,891 people have died in covid-19. It's someone's mother, someone's daughter, someone's grandfather, someone's son and someone's life partner. They are mourned by tens of thousands of loved ones, and they have the sympathy of millions of people. It is a great tragedy – and a great failure – for Sweden. Madam President, I would like It is also a trying time for all those who have now worked in health care for several months to care for those who are ill in covid-19. In many ways they have neglected their own lives, and they have worked day and night to save lives. While many others are now happy that travel restrictions are claimed, many of the health care staff are wondering if they will really be able to be available at all. Politics is also being tested. The political decisions we have taken here in the spring and which we will continue to take in the coming months will be of great importance and will mark the whole 20th century. I am pleased, Madam President, to note that all eight parties in Parliament in the Finance Committee here in Parliament have been able to work together for the good of Sweden. Madam President, I would like From the Moderates we have pushed the government in three important areas. Firstly, for several months we have been pushing for large-scale testing. Secondly, we have pushed for a Corona Commission to get started, and as soon as possible. Thirdly, we have really pushed for crisis packages that save Swedish jobs and Swedish companies. Madam President, I would like Without the Moderates, not all the necessary emergency packages that we have decided on here in Parliament would have been in place. We have presented important and elaborate proposals that save jobs. The Moderates proposed and pushed for the introduction of a business case. We proposed and pushed for state aid for the rental costs of companies. It was after the Moderates had demanded the abolition of employers' contributions that the government and the cooperation parties finally agreed to reduce employers' contributions. And it was the Moderates, along with the other opposition parties, who ensured that the interest on tax credits was halved. We proposed just a few weeks ago SEK 100 million to save regional airports in the crisis. This weekend it was clear that the government agrees – good! Not least, Madam President, it was we Moderates who, on 7 April, already presented the proposal for turnover aid to the worst crisis-stricken companies. This proposal then presented the government three weeks later, and we will take a decision on it in here tomorrow. All of this has made a difference for affected companies. It's saved jobs. Madam President, I would like The crisis is now entering a new phase in part. Although the situation is still acute for many companies, there is some lightening. The number of bankruptcies per week is in line with last year's levels. The economy is no longer in free fall. But the crisis is deep, and its effects will be very long-lasting. Therefore, crisis measures need to be adapted to a more prolonged crisis. Among other things, I would like to send the government and the support parties the advice to allow those who are now short-term laid off to take part in education, so that this will not be a lost year for them. Madam President, I would like As many of the restrictions are now eased in line with increased testing, support should be adapted to focus on those parts of the economy that are particularly affected by the remaining restrictions. One of the most important tasks in the years to come will be to repress unemployment. Just now, there were not too cheerful data and statistics from the Employment Service, which predicts that unemployment will be 11% in March next year. 11% – despite many of the efforts we have made! Unfortunately, Sweden entered this crisis with significantly worse conditions than many other European countries. Unemployment among immigrant women reached record levels just before the crisis. Total unemployment was higher in Sweden than in all comparable countries. The same year that Sweden would have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU, according to the Social Democrats, we received, instead, almost the highest. It is five years of a complete lack of really important structural reforms for increased employment, reduced unemployment and strong growth that Sweden will now have to pay dearly for. And it will be not only in the form of high public financial costs, but mainly in the form of passivity and dependency on benefits and the feeling of not finding a place in the labour market. Madam President, I would like Sweden also entered the crisis with the lowest forecast growth per person across the EU. It was in this situation that Sweden entered the crisis: that is, exceptionally equipped, with a wasted boom in the back. This means that the crisis will hit us harder than would have been desirable. As soon as the acute crisis is over and when the crisis measures have been rolled back – for that they will – the work line must be restored in Sweden. People want to get back to work and not be left out. It is entrepreneurship, jobs and growth that can lift Sweden and reforms for precisely this, not increased contributions that lock people into exclusion. At the same time, Madam President, it is already high time to make a major integration reform. I have said this many times in this House. We want a grant reform with language requirements and education. These are reforms that Sweden would have needed very many years ago, but it is time and time to tackle them now. Of course, there are not only problems with high unemployment that remain since before the pandemic. Unfortunately, crime has not taken a break in these months either. For example, even though last year was a record year, shootings continue to increase. There have been 120 shootings this year, and it can be compared to 110 the same period last year. 18 people have died in these shootings this year, compared to 16 the same time last year. The inability to repress the gross violence is one of the biggest failures of this government. Over the past few weeks, we've seen criminals attack police officers, destroy stores, and set cars on fire. As late as the other week, a family in Gothenburg saw their moving car plundered in connection with a demonstration. The son's drawings were spread on the street. Is that what we're supposed to do? No, this is about the safety of ordinary people. That is why we have more resources in our spring motion, which we are deciding on here today – and I am now calling for immediate approval of reservation 1 in the FIU20 – and we are pointing to the need to improve the conditions for police officers. They need better wages. We need paid police training, and cops need better tools. But we also need to try to re-recruit newly retired police officers. It needs the police to provide security. Finally, Madam President, normally this time is usually the last debate the Committee on Finance has. This is not the case this year, because we are still in a crisis. Tomorrow and next week, discussions, debates and decisions will continue. However, I would like to take this opportunity, now that both we and the Minister for Finance are here, to thank her for this spring. I know it's been a tough, hard job. I can't imagine how tough. Thank you for the good cooperation of the Social Democrats and other parties here in Parliament! None of us will be able to relax completely. The crisis continues. As I said, we will come back tomorrow and next week and perhaps more times. We will never take vacations from solving this crisis. We will always be prepared to do so. But I still wish you all a few nice hours, days and maybe weeks in the hammock or wherever you like it best. That also applies to you, Madam President.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-28	Madam President, I would like Of course, there is still a great deal of uncertainty in this economic crisis. Forecasts do not usually be completely reliable, and now even less than usual. I think it may be important to be humble in view of the fact that neither I myself nor the Minister for Finance – or the President, for that matter – is in jail with some particular spåkula and is able to determine exactly what measures are needed and exactly when they are needed. We don't. No one does. On the other hand, it is my conviction that the discussion on economic crisis measures should not be about whether we should spend relatively much or relatively little less money right now. The discussion should be about whether we should invest a lot of money now or whether we should do it later. Are we going to spend a lot of money now, saving jobs and businesses? Or should we do it then, on unemployment insurance and subsistence support? If we invest more money now, on jobs and businesses, we don't have to invest as much money then. If we invest less money now, we need to invest the more money then, on unemployment and on social security. That's what the connection looks like. Money will have to bet however we twist it and turn it around and no matter what we think of it. Then my conclusion, Madam President, is that it is better to invest more money now, so we do not have to spend as much money then. The government has reduced employers' contributions marginally. It's in itself good. The Swedish Democrats believe that it should have been completely abolished. It would have saved more companies from bankruptcy. But even this marginal reduction will expire in just a few weeks or two. It should, of course, be extended, in our opinion, at least over the summer months of July and August. The system of short-term lay-off, with short-term workers, is generally good. It is also good that the government made sure that it came into place in any case fairly quickly. It initially had an upper limit that allowed 60 percent lay-off, which may not help the company that has experienced a high turnover of up to 100 percent. This has since been adjusted, following criticism from not least the Swedish Democrats and the other opposition, to 80 percent. Of course, this is a step in the right direction, but of course those companies that have had a 100% turnover rate should also be able to lay off up to 100%. What the government chooses to call conversion aid, which we are going to debate and decide on in this House tomorrow, I am not making any sense at all. What are the companies going to do about it? They're going to reset their operations to become viral immunosuppressants? How? How do you do that? If I had been Minister of Finance, I'd say this is survival aid. You – the companies – are going to survive, and we politicians are going to help you with that. You don't have to change anything of your business. Just get through this! Furthermore, Madam President, this support will only apply in March and April, i.e. two months. In my world, the economic crisis did not end in April. Apparently, it's the government's assessment that it did. I don't share that assessment. I think the government has made a rather serious error of judgment. These three examples, Madam President – short-term lay-off, reduced social security contributions and conversion aid – illustrate a little what I started with: as little as possible is being done at the moment, but expenditure will have to be taken – like cursed – later on. Higher unemployment and more business failures mean, everything else equal, higher expenditure and lower tax revenues. Unfortunately, there does not seem to be support for a more expansive line, if we call it that, because the government parties with their obeying parties C and L are against this. I'm sorry about that. If we look a little forward, Madam President, we can see that the municipalities and regions were in a vulnerable economic situation even before this virus pandemic broke out. The situation has not improved for obvious reasons. The fact that the state needs to strengthen the local government sector temporarily in crisis is quite clear, and so does the government to some extent. We support this. But we cannot have a system where the normal situation is that we have a community sector that goes on its knees, and as soon as a crisis arises, the state shovels over a sack of money and hopes that the problem disappears. Last time, it was the migration crisis, which is still up to date, although the media narrative is somewhere else today. One cannot just throw a sack of money at the municipalities and regions in the short term and think that the problems will disappear in the long term. The solution must be precisely long-term, sustainable and lasting. In their reservation, the Swedish Democrats propose that the regions should retain large parts of the property-related tax revenue that today goes unabridged to the state. It can be about hydropower up in Norrland, the manufacturing industry in Svealand or wind and nuclear power in Götaland. Today, industry and electricity generation pay property tax in full to the state. Let this tax go to the region concerned instead! It strengthens the economy of the regions, in the long term and in the long term. Of course, it strengthens all regions, but it strengthens Norrlandslänen relatively most. The four northernmost regions – Jämtland, Norrbotten, Västerbotten and Västernorrland – are strengthened in relative terms most. And these four regions are larger than all the other regions together, even though only about a tenth of the population lives there. That is to say: low population density and sparsely populated areas mean, everything else equal, higher spending on welfare activities, public transport, infrastructure and so on. Of course, we can do this reform in parallel with the development of the municipal equalisation system. The clever thing here is the incentive structure itself: this kind of reform creates political incentives to maintain and attract the manufacturing industry and electricity generation. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 2.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-41	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for approval of the Left Party's reservation. Crises like Corona probably make us all think about what's important in life. I think the vast majority of people might have figured it out before, but now they have been strengthened in that faith and thought. It's about our loved ones. It's about health. I also think that a lot of people have gained new insights about how important it is that we solve things together – that together we are so much stronger than we are each other. Madam President, I would like Imagine how much better quality and working conditions we would have had in health care and care for the elderly if the same effort had been put into providing resources there as in reducing taxes. Think of so many political debates that have been held and proposals that have been raised, and think of the struggle that has been going on over the decades to reduce taxes and the competition that has been, not least in this House, about who can lower taxes most – unfortunately, unfortunately, most often for those who already have the best. The tax cuts and privatisations we have had have led to under-funded welfare. Not least, care for the elderly has been greatly affected. It has been the municipal activity that has probably had the most cuts. But, of course, care has also been severely affected. But the policies that have been pursued have also led to increased economic inequality and to a more fragile build-up of society that is ill prepared for a major and widespread crisis, a pandemic, such as covid-19. In this House we have had many debates on welfare and taxes to finance welfare. Many parties have competed for who can lower taxes the most. I would have thought that this pandemic would have put an end to this debate and that new insights would have come into politics. But when I read in the newspapers about Liberals and Centers' desire to get back on tax benches, I am easily frustrated and saddened, because resources for welfare are also about better continuity and thus better quality in elderly care. Continuity is about quality – it goes without saying. If the person who comes is well known and knows the person, is educated, knows the person's needs and knows what it needs, it obviously becomes better quality. But what about continuity? I usually ask the old ones when I'm out practicing in home care, and I often get answers: There are so many coming, and everyone is nice and good, but I don't really know who they are. If we look at continuity, we can see that in Danderyd's care for the elderly, 43% of employees have fixed-term contracts. The average in Sweden is 25 percent. In Stockholm it has been measured that 25 different people can come for two weeks to an old person with extensive care needs. Back in Gävle, I heard about a man who had had 50 people for a month. If it is bad now with fixed-term and hourly employment and part-time work in elderly care, you do not even dare to think about what it will be like if the proposals of the LAS investigation are implemented. Even thinking about the idea that you want to tear up the employment security that exists indicates hopefully a lack of understanding – because you can do something about that. But if it is neo-liberal ideology that is behind the patchwork, we are in trouble, and then we will all be on trial forever. Underfunded welfare has consequences in terms of stress, time hunting and never having time. An old woman I visited in Ockelbo said: What if there was someone who had time to sit down with me when I'm going to eat instead of just putting that lunchbox in the microwave and then leaving? Imagine how much better the food would taste then! That's the way it is. Imagine how much we could prevent if the staff had more time. Imagine how much we could take advantage of the old man's own skills and get more participation. Imagine how much nutrition we could prevent. Underfunded welfare is primarily borne by us women. It is we who need it most because of old outdated gender roles. It is we who work in it, and it is we who are allowed to intervene and take care of children or aging parents when the business has quality deficiencies or is not sufficiently expanded. More than 100 000 have lost working hours or stopped working completely because care for children and the elderly is not enough. It is possible to put an end to this by financing welfare on the basis of the needs that exist. In the spring proposal we are now debating and about to decide on, we can see that the cuts will continue. We already hear about how to cut down on the time for the shower and say: Greta, the shower will go faster today, because we have got even a little less time because we have to save money. The trade should go faster. We hear about the closure of retirement homes, about the announcement of pre-school teachers and teachers, about larger classes, about fewer who can be with children in fritis, about reduced help for disabled people, addicts and vulnerable children and about increased fees. The Left Party has proposed substantially increased state subsidies based on existing needs. We have also pushed for the Social Democrats, together with their partner parties, to spend more money. This has been the case twice this year, but it is clear that more is needed. Just listen to a nurse, a nurse, a teacher or a nanny and you'll hear. What they want to hear after all the hard work and all the tributes are that there should be an end to the time of cuts, that they should have more colleagues, better working conditions and wages and more time to carry out the tasks they see need to be done. Because it gives better quality. If we received these additions of resources, there would also be much more to be seen in the activities carried out and for the benefit of all of us. Madam President, I would like Many of the proposals made by the Left Party have been implemented. For example, we have proposed to remove the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal. This was not the case, but it became a withdrawal premium. We pushed early for a strengthened unemployment fund and that it would be easier to qualify, and so it has become. These two reforms should not be temporary but should also apply after the crisis, because it is clear that people should be able to afford to be at home if they are sick, and you should not be poored if you lose your job. We have also proposed that railway maintenance should be increased when so many trains are not running and that broadband expansion should receive more money, and that is how it has become. However, we have not yet received a moratorium on evictions during the Corona, nor has there been any reduction in the rent for those most affected by Corona. Companies have had such an opportunity, but not those who lose their jobs. Ordinary people must be given the opportunity to cope with the crisis, because if you lose your job and your income dives, the rent is the same after all. We have also proposed a hemester package of initiatives for everyone, especially for children and the elderly. Yesterday we were able to read in the newspaper about how many summer holiday activities have been suspended and how now more and more people have been charged because the government and their partner parties have removed the support that existed for free summer holiday activities. We think it would be very good to have such activities, not at least a year like this, because we want the activities to be accessible to everyone and that they should exist. Surely they must be adapted to the restrictions, but surely children should be able to participate in football schools even if the parents cannot afford it? Sure, I'll let them go to swimming school or dance activities or whatever. Old people who are isolated in their accommodations should be able to get more out of outdoor theatres and concerts, and outdoor life could be strengthened before this summer as well as various places to visit. A hemester should simply be good even if everything around you is changed. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to address the need to look forward and clarify how we want to see Future Building Sweden. We believe that the state should have an investment plan that is built on the basis of the necessary climate change and for the needs that exist due to extensive housing shortages and neglected infrastructure. An investment plan that shows what kind of building society you want to see is good from a democratic perspective, as citizens can see what is planned and what is not planned for. We want to see investment aid for beautiful functional preschools, schools and retirement homes. A lot of these need to be built in order to cope with demographic change, and then it should be visible on the premises what is valued in society: health care, school and care. We want to see a comprehensive expansion of offshore wind power. We want double tracks between Gävle and Härnösand and main tracks for fast train connections. Trains should be chosen because they are needed, for the sake of climate, because they are comfortable to ride with and because they walk on time. They're supposed to be able to compete out of the flight. There is a need for electrification of the transport sector, support for industrial change and energy efficiency. Madam President, I would like We solve common problems and needs better together than each one individually. Together, we are stronger. Let us build an equal society, a green society and a society where welfare is the focus. It should be a society with good working conditions and where women's rights are strengthened. That would be a real community building!
i-5710f0140e75dd18-67	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Christian Democratic motion, No 3604, to be approved. I would also like to make it clear that we have not taken part in the decision on our amending budget and that we intend to abstain in this vote because it concerns adjustments to the current budget, which we do not support. Madam President, I would like Three things have guided us Christian Democrats in their efforts to take Sweden through the crisis: to protect health and care and its staff, to protect jobs and businesses and to protect civil society. We have tried and are trying to be a constructive opposition party that is working actively to ensure that the government's cooperation with the Riksdag can work well and that crisis measures can quickly come into place. We are working to come up with proposals for improvement and to lift perspectives that have been obscured, but we also do not hesitate to point out what has gone wrong. Let me say something about care and care. It is good that the government has made resources available for direct costs of the pandemic and increased general state subsidies. I am also pleased that what we in the Christian Democrats called for in our Spring Movement – additional general contributions to the municipalities in order to cope with the welfare and avoid warning in the crisis – is now becoming a reality. Parliament has again shown that we can push forward changes and crisis measures when the government is too passive. However, the crisis also brings to light a number of things that were not sustainable before and that, together with the pandemic, are now in danger of creating an almost unsustainable situation. It is about the staff of care and care. Crisis packages are still needed to resolve their situation. And it's needed now. We have staff who have been working extremely hard for a long time and who still do not know whether or when the recovery will come. Together with the pandemic that continues, increased summer load with accidents in summer tracks and the care debt that builds up with cancelled and postponed treatments and operations, it is clear that thanks and speeches about heroes are not enough. Political responsibility is also needed to cope with this, to deal with the debt of care, to safeguard the quality of health care and to ensure that the pressured health care provider finally rests. Solutions must be sustainable even after the summer. If after the holiday the nurses are immediately thrown into new moving carousels and 70-hour weeks, the sick leave will run. We do not believe that 21 regions and 290 municipalities will implement and manage this on their own. It is also necessary for the state to act more forcefully. We have proposals, but we are also without prestige as long as it is feasible and helps. We are prepared to negotiate such proposals if necessary. We now need help in a situation that is in danger of overpowering staff. The same applies to the staff of the elderly. In the short term, we need to stimulate the conversion of hourly contracts into permanent employment in the care of the elderly. And long-term work is needed to improve conditions. The Christian Democrats have for a long time been making extensive proposals for staff to get sensible management, for the shared tours that hit people's family life to be down to a minimum, for staff satisfaction to be improved and for increased staff continuity that increases quality and strengthens the relationship between the user and the employee. It is good that there now seems to be soil for carrying out such reforms. Madam President, I would like We must continue to protect jobs and businesses. Sweden is now receiving a turnover subsidy. It is an issue that the Christian Democrats have been pushing forcefully. It would have to be extended in time and adjusted in detail, but it is good that it is in place. It was also good that the government, the parliament and the authorities acted early on to ensure that the credit market would work, including through retroactive deferral of taxes – where we Christian Democrats were able to contribute to forwarding and lower interest on the deferral – through credit guarantees at, for example, the National Debt Office and the Export Credit Board. The responsibility for sickness pay, the withdrawal of benefits and the strengthening of the unemployment fund in the crisis are other areas where there has been a consensus. Short-term lay-offs were also important for saving jobs and maintaining production capacity in companies. But there is also a great deal in the protocol on how the January parties, while protecting permanent employees in the lay-off system, forced companies to send other employees into the cold. Thus, in order to comply with the law, the Swedish Agency for Growth has required 75 000 companies to dispose of temporary staff. It is a government requirement for companies to fire personnel, in order to benefit from public support in the deepest recession in manna memory. This has been done when the obvious right, at least in the short term, is to get as many people as possible to get caught in their jobs. It is a policy that goes directly against the experiences of the financial crisis in Europe, the OECD, the Joint Working Group 2011, the investigation and proposal of 2013, the Institute of Economic Development's assessment and the statement of the Council of Finance Policy this year. This is, in fact, the worst crisis policy. Madam President, I would like A number of emergency measures have been taken. By nature, many are temporary. When several soon expire, the government would have to give more information about what is coming, so that there is no harmful uncertainty. They've done it on sick pay. That's good. But in other areas, too, it would be necessary. It is important to dispel uncertainty that creates passive or cautious decisions, not least in the case of private investment, and risks prolonging and delaying the crisis and dampening recovery. Signals about increased taxes on jobs and businesses are at this point not the way to lay the foundations for private investment. Madam President, I would like A third thing is that we must protect civil society, this capillary system in the community body that reaches out to those who are vulnerable or in need, who contribute warmth and community and who promote health and discourage loneliness. It is a place where, through cooperation and meetings, we give birth to faith in the future and hope, not fear and hatred. One thing's worth thinking about. When we like to talk about the importance of the fundamental values and values of society – show respect, solidarity, mutual understanding as a basis for freedom – we need to understand that it is not primarily through opinions but through actions we are formed. This takes place not least in all communities and associations of civil society. But civil society is in crisis as a result of the pandemic. The support is missing or does not work well for civil society, which is not similar to companies, when the crisis strikes broad against Association Sweden. When the waltz fires fail, it is something of an economic disaster for the Scouts. When the sale of Mayflowers, which normally provides income to support vulnerable children, cannot be carried out, they end up in crisis. Sports associations that play a major role in children's and young people's health and community lose a great deal of revenue when sponsorship and events fail. Camp operations are cancelled and participation fees are removed, but costs remain. Civil society associations and relief organisations have shown that they stand up for the victims, even when they themselves bleed. It concerns organisations, churches and communities. Red Cross, City Mission, All Man, Gothenburg Rescue Mission and others reset to reach the needy in the crisis. I believe that it is time for the public to give their full support, so that they can continue their work for community, health and safety and, with their enormous perseverance, extend a hand to the one in need. Together with the Left Party, we therefore put forward a proposal for an initiative to mandate the government to present a crisis package to safeguard a warm and vibrant civil society during and after the crisis. This would include a civil society agency for associations and organisations that are already authorised beneficiaries of public aid but have lost revenue as a result of the crisis, additional support for those who are changing, and the conversion of project grants into general grants in 2020 that will allow associations to feel confident that they will receive the funds even if the projects are difficult to implement. I note that the other parties in the committee have rejected this. Responsibility rests heavily on them. Madam President, I would like It is a new world we live in – and it is the same old world. The pandemic affects all of humanity, and we're the same old people. We live our days in the tension between evil and good, with our desire for freedom, our need for community, our desire to live and experience love, truth, community and a good environment, our responsibility to safeguard human dignity, regardless of geographical or cultural distance, and our responsibility for future generations. We do this with all our imperfection. It is up to us in this House, too, to do what we can for a society where everyone has the chance of dignity at all stages of life. At the moment, it requires more than otherwise, with greater efforts from the public and from our common resources. We will use them in the best possible way to ensure life and health through effective healthcare and care. We will save jobs, if possible, and the entrepreneurship that is so important for the construction of society. We shall protect a vibrant and warm civil society that lays a foundation for the community. That work must continue.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-88	Madam President, I would like During the spring, the world and Sweden have undergone a huge test. Although restrictions are lifted here and elsewhere and hopes for a more normal existence are high, it is too early to blow the danger over. The Corona crisis has primarily affected the lives and health of many people, but it has also led to a very serious economic situation. The global economy has taken a break. Whole industries have seen their revenues disappear more or less. I know that many people are worried about the future, about their jobs and not being able to pay their rent or the interest on their mortgages. When we debate the economic policy guidelines and the spring change budget here today, we note that Sweden has been in a historic and very serious economic situation for several months, which has affected society as a whole. However, we can also note that the political system has accumulated strength, as has been mentioned here before. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the fine cooperation that we have had, not least in the Parliament's Committee on Finance. We have shown that politics can work together and work together to take joint responsibility in a difficult and troubled time. Madam President, I would like As early as February 1st, the government classified covid-19 as a social disease. Since then, we have debated and decided on a string of extraordinary amending budgets with very strong efforts to curb the spread of the disease, strengthen care and repress the economic effects of the virus. We can do that because we have a position of economic strength. The economic policy of recent years has been a lot about equipping Sweden and the Swedish economy with muscles to deal with different types of crises. We have also been able to use the strength we have built up. These are historic measures that have been taken. In total, the direct costs amount to over SEK 250 billion. In addition, we have provided guarantees and credits for an additional close to SEK 600 billion. Madam President, I would like There are many nurses, nurses and doctors and a lot of care personnel who have worked long days throughout the spring to save lives and care for the sick and are likely to do so for quite a few more weeks and months. We all bear a great responsibility to do our best not to spread the infection further, despite the lifting of travel restrictions, to make sure that care is not overloaded and that you get the much-needed break and recovery that you really deserve. In order to further facilitate health care and ensure that you can stay at home when you are ill, we have replaced the withdrawal allowance and removed the requirement for a medical certificate during the sick pay period, while increasing the resources for, for example, infectivity pay. Municipalities and regions play a very important role in the fight against the virus through their responsibility for disease protection, health care and care for the elderly. The government has made it clear that money should not, cannot and will not stand in the way of the important work of healthcare and care. The spring change budget adds an additional EUR 2 billion to compensate for the extraordinary health and care costs of the local government sector. This is also almost a game of numbers – if more money is needed, we will increase the resources needed to meet the costs. In addition to targeted funding for Corona costs, we are strengthening the entire welfare sector through historically large contributions. However, other actors and the state authorities involved in limiting the virus outbreak also need to have the necessary resources. Today, therefore, we are deciding on increased funding for SOS Alarm, which has had an increased influx of incoming calls. The Swedish Public Health Agency adds money to strengthen Sweden's vaccine preparedness. The National Board of Health and Welfare, which is tasked with coordinating the regions in the coordination of available intensive care places, provides the resources needed for that mission. Madam President, I would like The Corona virus has hit the Swedish economy hard. The economic situation remains uncertain. It is difficult to assess and can quickly change. During the spring, we have acted quickly and forcefully to support fundamentally viable companies and thus save jobs. We have reduced social security contributions and social security contributions. In the near future, we will be introducing strong aid for conversion. We have in place a system of state rental subsidies for particularly affected sectors. Currently, it is estimated that more than 10 000 contracts for temporary rental grants have been signed. We have introduced short-term work that is now estimated to cost SEK 95 billion. It is a historic measure to save jobs and Swedish production capacity. At the moment, over half a million Swedes are on short-term leave. In order to support certain sectors in particular, we have targeted support to, for example, culture, sport and civil society. As in many other crises, not least the importance of news reporting and critical review has been highlighted, in this crisis more than ever. Therefore, in our amending budget, we contribute SEK 200 million in media support to ensure that newspapers throughout the country can continue their important activities despite declining revenues. Madam President, I would like Despite the extensive measures taken, many people have lost their jobs and lost their jobs. In order to strengthen their financial security, we have made it possible for more people to qualify for unemployment insurance, while at the same time raising the ceiling of insurance. In addition, we provide funds for more people to be able to train and participate in initiatives that lead to a new job. Employment services are proposed to have more resources to deal with an increase in unemployment and to ensure equivalence across the country. The right to a new start job is extended for those who have a new start job. Resources are also provided for folk high schools, vocational adults and jobs in green industries. We can also see that more people choose to turn to universities and higher education institutions. Funds are therefore provided for student support and CSN. But we also want our young people to have the opportunity to make their first experience in the labour market and get their first salary this summer too. We therefore invest almost 200 million SEK in order for the municipalities to offer summer jobs for young people. Madam President, I would like In spite of the extraordinary situation, other social problems do not wait. The fight against crime continues. Today, nearly 500 police students were examined. As a result, the police are bigger than they have ever been, and it will continue to grow. At the same time, in our amending budget, we are pushing resources to other parts of the important legal chain. At the border, the Finnish Customs should be able to stop drugs and weapons through increased presence. The Swedish Security Service, the Swedish Courts, the Swedish Correctional Service and the Swedish National Agency for Forensic Medicine also receive increased funding. Madam President, I would like During the last parliamentary term, we strengthened Sweden. We saved in the barns and strengthened our welfare by SEK 35 billion. That is why we were able to enter this crisis with 100,000 more people working in our common welfare. There were 100,000 new training places in place in the Knowledgelift, and the lowest public debt since 1977 was a fact. The future is still uncertain. It is, of course, difficult to make forecasts of the future. It is not a message of joy that we normally take part in, although some forecasts look a little better than just a few weeks ago. We do not yet know when the crisis will be over. We are prepared to take further action if the crisis is longer than we all hope to see and to steer and change the various systems in place. But no country, not even Sweden, has infinite resources. Therefore, we should take responsibility for the fact that there is money to kickstart the Swedish economy with once the crisis is over. One day it will be. Then we will be ready to continue to build a stronger society and get Sweden back on track. I support the committee's proposal.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-103	Madam President, I would like It's been a spring that looks like nothing else. Who could have guessed when we wrote on 1 January 2020 that this year would be totally dominated by a virus that from China spread around the world? We have broken all the records, not least in terms of economic policy. The pace and size of the emergency packages do not correspond to anything else in modern times. These are, of course, currently significant degrees of uncertainty. But you can imagine a certain light. Countries around the world, including Sweden, ease certain restrictions. We start shopping and travel so slowly and cautiously. However, it should be recognised that the light is subject to considerable uncertainty. It is easy to see what would happen to financial markets and other things if the opening we are now seeing leads to a backlash and countries see themselves forced to shut down their economies and societies again to prevent a second wave. That would mean not least an economic blackness of a kind we have not yet seen, and then we have experienced a lot this year. It is therefore a very uncertain situation. It's important to be very careful in your forecasts. We tend to pull out the current trend in the direction of the key and say that's how it's going to be. This is what we do when things look worse and when things look better. Right now it may well be that we have a lot of crisis management ahead of us and a lot of tough times and demands for major measures. We hope, of course, that this is not the case without the first tough wave being the only one in the corona management and that we can now move towards a new normality where we are slowly but surely taking steps in a better and more friendly direction. But there is nothing to say that this kind of positive development is given. So it is important to be very careful. Spring's work has taken place on several leaderships. Perhaps it has primarily been about securing central social functions. Some things should simply work in Sweden, Corona or not. Some routes should be operated at least once a day, whether it is 3, 13 or 313 people who need to go. Some ferry lines, not least to Gotland, will continue to work. Some social functions must be maintained almost at all costs. This work has been about stimulating and giving funds to municipalities and regions. It has been about doing historical measures to keep Sweden's jobs and companies under arms and to ensure that important functions can bridge the most acute phase. It is, of course, too early to evaluate what was done right, what should have been done more, what should have been done less, and what should have been done before. There are still far too many uncertainties in which we simply do not know the answer. We can say that Sweden has continued to function. Central social functions have not fallen during these very tough times. Of course, it is above all a question of doing a horse job on the front line, whether it has been about care, care, transport, logistics, food supply, or whatever it may be. It is also, of course, a question of the fact that we have gathered together in this House and, in a very short time, made very many important decisions, and also the vast majority of them in total agreement. There has also been an openness to refine, modify and develop the proposals after discussion in committees and chambers. Such openness and spirit of cooperation are very positive and should continue. That is something we can try to preserve even after the farthest hindsight of the Corona crisis is reached. There are a number of conclusions to draw from the last few months. One conclusion could, of course, be that we need to be more prepared the next time a pandemic strikes. However, I would argue that a more relevant conclusion is that Sweden must build up a humility and a readiness for unexpected things to happen. We're not immortal in any way. We need to have a plan for Sweden to continue to work when unexpected things happen. It could be a pandemic. It could be a crisis or a war in our vicinity. It could be another summer with very large fires. That could be something that I cannot now see. It is, as it were, in the nature of the issue. We will sit down and think about: What will the new Sweden after the corona really look like? One of the basic perspectives must be to build preparedness in a broad way. In the coming year, we will decide on a new civil defence bill. We will decide on the future of military defence. In the coming years, we will make decisions on how to build the Swedish future infrastructure and much more similar. I believe that the various preparedness perspectives need to be guided in a way that they have not been for a very long time. It is by no means a question of building up what once existed. It would have been both expensive and out-of-date. It is about ensuring that important social functions have a plan B. If the normal approach does not work, we already have a picture in advance of how we should act. So more social functions need to act in their planning. We must not lose that lesson if we are now moving towards something better. There is also much talk about, and the undersigned is part of that discussion, that there must be resources for a kickstart, a restart, a way to very practically build the new Sweden. It is only to be noted that there is still too much uncertainty in order to conduct this discussion really strongly. It is about exactly when it can start and exactly how much a Swedish start-up and restart package should cover. The undersigned would like to have some more information about economic development and some more information about the spread of infection and what we believe for the autumn before that kind of reasoning can be carried out entirely. In such a work, a new and more robust Sweden needs to be included. There are therefore clear bridges to build between preparedness and resilience policies and an investment-driven recovery that creates jobs and incentives for companies to invest and develop. I believe that these two greats can be discussed in many ways in a context. Finally, it is also clear that we entered into this crisis management with a great luxury compared to other countries. One of the world's lowest public debt has given us considerable security in crisis management. Like many other countries around the world, we have not had to think so much in terms of whether we can afford it, because we have. We have been able to afford, and more so, to take the historic leaps that we have made in terms of tax cuts by reducing employers' contributions. In this House, we have broken a new Swedish record in tax cuts in a short time. It has been turnover-based support, abolished sickness pay, large contributions to welfare and much more. We have had these resources thanks to the fact that over the last 30 years we have had very tough rules on how the state finances should be managed, how plus and minus goes together and how we slowly but surely bring the public debt down to very low levels. That luxury also deserves future generations of crisis managers. The fiscal frameworks we have are very good and have served us very well. I also believe that the framework needs to be further developed and tightened up. We will ensure that the core is maintained, which means that Sweden should have sound public finances and order and order in economic policy. We need to get away from the very clear trend we have seen in recent years, namely that we gradually undermine the basic idea of how we handle taxpayers' money in the most efficient and responsible way. The lesson we need to learn from Corona management is simply that what worked very well and what has given us great opportunities to act are our very healthy public finances. We must not forget that lesson. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal and wish both the President and the Members of this House a happy summer – in so far as it is a summer this year.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-126	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Emil Källström, for your speech. It is essentially wise and well reasoned. I would also like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the spring, where we have been able to work on the proposals of the government and the January parties and together improve them in several respects. I thought I'd go along with the argument about uncertainties. I agree that we are in a situation where it is difficult here and now to design kickstart packages for Sweden, to find the right mix both in scope and between public investment and proposals that support private investment and possibly private consumption. It is difficult to do in a situation where we do not know the continued development of the economy well enough, and it is also about the spread of infection. Nevertheless, there is a risk that this uncertainty will be accentuated or exacerbated by the absence of information. There are a lot of subsidies that expire around the same time this summer. There is little information from the Finance Minister Emil Källström cooperates with about what comes next. There has been a lot of discussion about public investment, but for private investment security is important. There must not be too much uncertainty about the conditions. I would therefore like to hear if Emil Källström can develop the reasoning a little about this. Emil Källström himself mentioned the importance of private investment to take Sweden out of the crisis, and I fully share that assessment. However, it is also a question of how to look at the extension of aid and when it can be communicated. Is there any news or not?
i-5710f0140e75dd18-130	Madam President, I would like These are difficult questions. To some extent, it is quite clear that an active policy will continue to be needed to deal with the effects of the corona in their various parts. There are, to some extent, two grandeurs here: to extend the very generous and great efforts that have been made this spring in relation to bringing forward state investment and in this way to create business for the companies that are going to bury those broadband cables, to build those railways or whatever it may be. The question is as in which basket to place the bets. It is clear that it is more forward-looking to come to the second basket, that is to say, to use the good finances of the state to advance investment and get started with projects. In this way, we create business for the Swedish companies and thus confidence in the future, investment will, willingness to work and so on. It is clear that the sooner we get to the more forward-looking, the better. I'd rather discuss things like that. But right now there is considerable uncertainty. If we manage to wait until the end of summer and early autumn to put that foot down, I think it is good, simply because it will be a more balanced policy. Then we have to keep track of developments, and that is what I meant by my comment on whether it will be any summer or not. Some types of information may need to come earlier than that, and therefore we have to continue to follow developments as we have done during spring, day by day and week by week. I realise, of course, that I am not giving a rigorous answer to Jakob Forssmed's question. It is simply because I do not have that answer at present, because there is a considerable degree of uncertainty.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-136	Madam President, I would like I'm not sure the question was 100% strict, either. I guess it'll be a summer. We believe that, even if I belong to those who start thinking about D a deserted beach already in the introduction. It's not very healthy; I don't recommend it to anyone. I understand that we do not want to extend general aid at this stage, but there are also targeted aid, for example, on turnover cases. And if you have continued a large turnover case, well, then you qualify for a possible aid extension, otherwise not. It is therefore more a question of providing such a message at an early stage, as it can create a little more faith in the future and a little more opportunities to look forward to what is to come. I think we would all rather be in the next phase, where we have to stimulate and push these things forward. However, I also see a risk that the absence of information on the extension of aid itself could create uncertainty that could be harmful. We know that time is also a problem for companies that have made progress for a while, but where bankruptcy is approaching. Therefore, we must not change mentally too early in the future. This was actually a small contribution to the forthcoming talks that you have with the Minister for Finance. I know that Emil Källström basically protects companies and so on, and now you have to think carefully so that you do not create an increased uncertainty among the companies. This, in turn, reduces the willingness to invest, pending the creation of something great and grandiose later on.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-141	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the pass and the delivery. I'm really taking that to heart. But I almost want to send that ball back too, because I think I see that this is something almost general. Several parties, regardless of which constellation you belong to right now, may wait for further information before you really put your foot down. There are quite a few who have not stated whether they think that this or that form of aid should be extended in this or so many months. I have respect for the fact that many have not done so, precisely because it is such an uncertain situation and it is so unclear what is the most well-targeted right now. It is clear that of the forms of aid that are in place and that we have decided on in this House, some are more focused on companies that actually have problems, while some are more general. And if you are going to open that door at all, it is surely the kind of aid that goes to those companies that have real problems. As recently as yesterday in the Committee on Finance, all parties have said that for the smallest companies, individual firms, there would probably have to be further steps. Then that work will have to be done as quickly as possible. This discussion needs to be held by everyone, and many have not put their foot down. It is clear that those feet will need to be put down in the near future. But the point of departure on our part, and that would be a wise point of departure for the policy as a whole, is to move on to a more forward-looking incentive policy that not only means that companies survive but also that they get new business. A policy that leads to new investments and new jobs is basically better.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. A few weeks ago, I met an intensive care doctor. Many of us read about what is happening in health care, follow the distribution of the Corona virus via the media, have relatives who isolate themselves, but have so far not suffered from death in the family or among relatives. The meeting with the intensive care doctor was for me a reminder that the coronavirus and covid-19 are serious. Those who work in health care, not least in intensive care departments, face the consequences every day of a nasty and terrible virus that destroys not only our society and our economy, but most importantly causes people to suffer. It is done, and it has been done for a long time, amazing and incredible efforts in health care. I am grateful for the work that many people do daily to ensure that health care works and that people survive the corona virus. Madam President, I would like Great efforts are also being made in care for the elderly, but the level of preparedness has not been as good as it has been in health care. We see patients who meet many of the home care staff. We see patients who meet staff who don't know the language well enough, which causes them to get hurt. We see people in elderly care who are affected by the fact that politics has not worked, for example that it took Sweden a long time to close our elderly homes. I myself live in Skåne, where the pathologist and Region Skåne early, three weeks before the Swedish Public Health Agency, decided to close the elderly homes for outsiders to visit. One explanation for the low death rates in Skåne is the fact that in few places there has been a spread of infection. Madam President, I would like Municipalities, health care and our common welfare are strong, but it needs to stand even stronger. What the crisis has shown is how important health care is to us people and how dependent we are on our common welfare. I am proud of our common welfare. It provides security and makes people stronger. Country reports have clearly shown that municipalities and regions see falling tax revenues. This is not because they themselves have resigned employees but because local companies have resigned employees or other companies that had planned to recruit do not do so. We can see a sharp increase in unemployment in the private sector, and it strikes with clinical precision at tax revenues in municipalities and regions. The connection is clear. A strong welfare, which I want, is based on people working and companies being able to hire and grow. That connection has rarely become clearer than during the Corona crisis. Therefore, in our talks with the Government, the Liberals have pushed for more efforts for Sweden's entrepreneurs – large and small. These are the abolition of sickness pay, the removal of employers' contributions for many months, the introduction of turnover support and lay-off schemes. There is a series of efforts that have been made to avoid bankruptcies here and now to keep up employment and to ensure that companies are strong, remain and do not have to lay off people. In this way, we can secure the financing of welfare. Despite more than 200 billion in targeted aid, we still see unemployment rising and hitting our municipalities and regions. Welfare risks not being so strong at the next stage. Looking at the world around us, we see how unemployment in the United States is rising towards the skies and how the spread of infection in the United States is increasing uncertainty, which in all likelihood will cause Swedish export companies – think Ericsson and Astrazeneca – to have it tougher in the next situation when the Americans will not want to buy as much of our Swedish products. It will directly hit jobs and, by extension, welfare when it happens. That is why it is important that, at the next stage, during the recovery, when the economic cycle is receding, we ensure that companies invest and employ. Madam President, I would like It is also important to see at the next stage that those parts of the welfare that are not so much in focus right now will also need to be highlighted. Now there is a lot of focus on health care and care for the elderly, and at the next stage, of course, we need to focus a lot on school. There is nothing so important for Sweden as a country of the future that the school works. We see how some students have not been so much in school, and there is a real risk that it will affect the ability for them to learn enough. This will cause the results of knowledge to fall, and that would be absolutely the worst for our country. Madam President, I would like I am afraid that we will also see that the integration debt that exists in Sweden will become more and more expensive. It is clear that those who are furthest from the labour market, who had difficulty getting a job before the Corona crisis, will find it even harder to get a job after the Corona crisis. Anyone who did not get a job before will now compete with someone who just had a job and has become unemployed. It is clear that there is a risk that exclusion and dependency will deepen, that integration debt will grow deeper and stronger. It's dangerous for our country. There we must intervene in politics so that the debt of integration does not grow ever more sharply. Furthermore, it is important to build a modern and realistic climate policy. The climate crisis is here. It did not happen during the Corona crisis, but it existed earlier, but it is also now tangible. It is important that this issue is not driven by ideological blind spots or by placard politics, but rather by a modern and realistic climate policy. Sweden will contribute to reducing emissions, and there will be less emissions on our planet. We'll take responsibility for it. It is about electrification of our roads, that more people can choose public transport instead of driving a car, to build our cities so that there is an alternative to car. We must realise that Sweden is an elongated country. It is not the car that is the problem, it is the emissions that are the problem, and it is an important starting point in building future policy. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to thank all the parties in the Swedish Parliament for the work we have jointly done in the Committee on Finance. I would like to extend my special thanks to the Minister for Finance for the cooperation we have had in the budgetary work. We have done this together. There have been differences of opinion, as it should of course be, but we have also been able to gather together to do what is best for Sweden instead of dealing with political bickering. Many wise proposals have come from parties in the Committee on Finance who have made the proposals from the government much better. That is how politics should work, that is, together we bring politics forward, make politics better and thereby make Sweden better.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-163	Madam President, I would like I thank Mats Persson for his speech and for his cooperation during the spring. In his speech, Mats Persson spoke about care for the elderly. The need for more staff and continuity has taken place in the past. I can't help being reminded of when we were here a year ago. It was not Mats Persson who stood here at the time, but the Liberals had a representative here. We were then able to note that the proposal made by the M-KD budget to increase the continuity of staff in the care of the elderly had simply been removed by the January parties. The same is true of the proposals for additional resources for people living in shelters to provide extra security for the elderly. In addition, investments in retirement homes were reduced. It is only a year since those efforts were actively removed from the budget that had then won the approval of the Parliament. After all, cooperation between the January parties is governed by the 73-point programme, and by 73 points the elderly have received two-half points in the programme. It has not been the focus of cooperation. It is therefore a good thing that more parties are now highlighting these issues. I won't dwell on the past. It has been, and it was not Mats Persson who was responsible for it. Perhaps that was the reason why it could be removed; what do I know? But if we do not continue to dwell on it without looking forward, I wonder what Mats Persson sees as the most important initiatives this autumn when it comes to improving for the elderly. How does Mats Persson see the increased continuity of staff becoming a reality? That's a pretty good thing to do. That is my question, Madam President.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-169	Madam President, I would like Jakob Forssmed criticises the rescheduling of the budget. It is important to say that we had a discussion in Swedish politics that I did not understand that the Christian Democrats were against. It has been about trying to have fewer targeted state grants and more general state grants. The change we made was partly a result of it. We have invested heavily in municipalities and regions in the latest budgets, and we are now working to have fewer and fewer targeted state subsidies. This is because part of the state grants is so small and consists of so little money that it is hardly worthwhile for quite a few municipalities to apply for them. Now we are on a journey where much of the policy is shifted to more general state subsidies rather than targeted state subsidies. I understand that this is something that Sweden's municipalities and regions are asking for. I understand that most people in the business think that it is better to decide locally how to use the money, and basically I think there is quite a lot in that argument. What needs to happen in the care of the elderly in the future? I think there are several things that need to happen. One is exactly what we have said from the Liberals: there are too many different employees on each user, not least in the home service. It is unreasonable to meet 16 different people during a two - week period. It doesn't make sense. It's about resources. It's about controlling care. It's about having a user perspective, having the individual in focus and center. I believe that much of the debate that has been held in the health care system about having a patient-responsible doctor, which means that, as a patient, at least on paper, you have a doctor who takes responsibility for you, and that kind of reasoning also needs to shape the care of the elderly in the future. I think there's a lot to do. I welcome Jakob Forssmed's commitment, and I am sure that we will do what we can to improve this jointly in all parties in Parliament.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-177	Madam President, I would like That is, of course, a reasonable argument in itself, but that is not what the parties responsible for the budget did. It was not that these subsidies were converted into general aid to the municipalities to remedy these things, but they were simply deleted from the budget. These were specific tools for methodological development, for spreading good practice, for training and ensuring that this route of scheduling and other things can create a more reasonable situation for the staff but also for the users. We know that it leads to increased quality when you manage to have better staff continuity. I can support the general approach of fewer targeted state subsidies. Last year, however, there were still a great many targeted state subsidies, but these particular ones were removed. They were also not replaced by general support for elderly care. In the future, I think there is reason to think about whether to go a middle way, if you can't have a performance-based general government contribution to cope with these things. It should go to those municipalities that improve their staff continuity and improve the working conditions of the staff. It should not go into detail on how to achieve it or have a specific application procedure. But if improvements are achieved in terms of working conditions, management, continuity of staff and staff satisfaction, then you should also be able to get resources from the state as a sort of reward to use. They will then be general for the municipality to use in the way you want. I think that we need to devote a lot of resources to this but also make demands on what we now want to see happen in Sweden's municipalities when it comes to elderly care. Such a middle course, Madam President, would perhaps be something for Mats Persson to support.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-182	Madam President, I would like I'm a big supporter of middle roads, so I listen with interest. We from the Liberals have now, together with the other January parties, come forward with the care lift, which is about this – to make sure that the nurse can become a nurse and to raise the skills of those who work in elderly care. It's, to be honest, not a quick fix. Of course there are things that will take a while to do. But they have to be done, because it is an important part of improving the quality of those living in special housing or home care. I believe that this is an important and good step towards improving quality and providing better working conditions for those working in the care of the elderly. In this way, we can increase the status of elderly care in municipalities, which I think is very important. I understand that there is broad agreement in the Swedish Parliament to invest money in elderly care and to do more. It is an important lesson from the Corona crisis that care for the elderly needs to work better and get a boost in skills. We cannot have it so that a patient meets 16 different people during a two-week period. It's crazy. We can't have that.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-186	Madam President, I would like Sweden is at its best when we help each other, when we do what we can for each other and when we work together towards the same goal. We have really seen this in the spring that has passed. We're still in the pandemic. Every day, major efforts are being made to care for the sick, to reduce the spread of infection and to ensure the livelihood of people. It is life-changing efforts that are being carried out, and they will have to continue. Madam President, I would like Life has been saved, but lives have also been lost. Clearly, we have not been able to protect the elderly well enough. In the evaluation of the emergency management of the pandemic, many will certainly point out elements that could have been better done to protect the groups at risk. However, the fact that we have not been able to protect the elderly will not primarily be attributed to decisions taken this spring but to structural problems. One such structure is the link between gender, pay and working conditions. The health and care professions are largely women-dominated, and it is clear that we need to start prioritising the working conditions of all women who work as nurses and carers. Older people with home care meet far too many people. This is widely discussed but not resolved. On the contrary, it has become worse over time. At the same time as women who work in home care will meet more and more older people in a shorter time, caretakers become older and sicker. In the 1980s, the home care service visited four people during an average shift. 2015 included a shift of up to twelve visits to different people. These are structures that have created the problems now exposed by the crisis, and these are the structures we need to change. The biggest expenditure in the budget we are now debating is support for regions and municipalities. This is money that must now reach care and the elderly in their daily lives and bring about real change. Nobody pays the rent with applause. Together with Sweden's municipalities and regions, the government is now developing funds that will lead to more education and more permanent full-time positions within the care sector. This points out a clear direction for what is needed to ensure that we are better equipped for the next pandemic and improve the quality of life, both for those receiving home care and for those working in health care. At the same time, we can see that during this spring there have been intensive care places in Sweden for those who have needed it. The change that was quickly made at Sweden's hospital has produced results and saved lives. With clear priorities and with action we have been able to achieve a great deal. We should be proud of this and thank everyone who has worked out on the floor for it. Sweden's emergency preparedness will be evaluated and will be discussed. The weaknesses that have emerged in the light must lead to reforms in the future. We must learn lessons from what has happened this spring. Madam President, I would like The time to take responsibility for Sweden's future security should be now. Locking up even greater future military defence expenditure is not taking responsibility for the future. First, we need to look at how civil defence needs to be expanded. Then we need to give answers on how to finance the care of the increasing number of elderly people. Then we may perhaps look at the need for more defence equipment. Who missed bombs and grenades during the spring crisis? If there is a war, it is actually about the truth, and then it is independent media and a strengthened psychological defence that Sweden needs. If we are to lock down expenditure for a long time it should be to welfare – to education and care. Madam President, I would like Today, Sweden's students and students have finished a semester that we will never forget. Even there, in the education sector, a great change has been made. Now students are running out to a Corona adapted celebration. We must ensure that the bright future is theirs, and we do so by ensuring that many are given the opportunity to educate themselves and secure their future. But we also do so by making sure that the world we build up after the coronapndemine is better than the one we have left. We can and we will invest Sweden out of this crisis. We have both the strength and the ability to do so. The Government proposes that we here in Parliament should establish a properly extended budgetary framework for 2020, and that is the right thing to do at this point. We have saved in the barns to be able to crisis manage and to bet forward. While dealing with the pandemic, we need to raise our eyes. We cannot just look to the next few years; we must think long-term. For it is now that we must make the great investments of our time, and they must be green and lead to a more equal society that can cope with climate and justice. Madam President, I would like The tasks ahead are important and great. We cannot afford to push on unilaterally and simply with increased production and consumption. We must ensure that we double benefit from state funds by identifying investments that both strengthen the economy and make Sweden more robust for future challenges. One way is to use aid that we give to the business community as a lever for conversion. During the burning crisis, the state supports companies to survive and to keep as many jobs as possible. The focus has been on rapidly developing funds that save jobs and people's livelihoods. However, when we then step out of the crisis, it should not happen without counter-claims. Let me explain what I mean by an example of the opposite. Expanding airports is an example of how we would bury Sweden in a deeper fossil dependence – it is not taking responsibility. That would be using the crisis as an excuse to get further away from the climate goals that this House has set itself. Our common money will of course be used to invest in things that bring us closer to common goals and that build Sweden robust. Madam President, I would like Swedish companies can be the world leader in the transition to a fossil-free economy. In many, there are now incredibly exciting projects that are ready to start and technologies that lower emissions and make the transformation to a fossil-free economy happen in real life. These are projects that, if put into practice, strengthen our economy with jobs and confidence in the future. Some of them, like once the ball bearings, can spread around the world, lead to a global technological revolution and reduce emissions globally. Now the state has an important task in ensuring that these projects are not put on the shelf because we have an economic crisis. That is because right now we need these efforts at their best. Nor can we allow the brilliant ideas to disappear into other countries. The crisis we are in has exposed shortcomings in our society. Let us learn from them and now invest in what builds Sweden stronger. There's a lot to do. We need to strengthen Swedish food supply and shake off our dependence on oil and the rogue states that control both price and production. A robust and renewable energy supply must be provided. We can build capacity in the electricity grids so that we can implement electrification of the transport sector. Investments in energy efficiency can reduce both costs and emissions forward. The large maintenance debt linked to our va network must be invested away. There will be more dry summers sometime; we know that. This is also a lesson we must take with us. Of course, by expanding broadband, we will ensure that anyone who has now learned to work from home and wants to continue with it can do so regardless of where in the country they live. That's investing in the future. Madam President, I would like It's not going to be like it was before. It is up to us to ensure that society is better than it was before the crisis. We want to see a society where those who need care receive it and where those who care are shown the appreciation they deserve financially. When the economy kicks off again, the start should be green and fair. That's how we build a society where those who now take the student can feel confident and live most of their lives in a fossil-free, strong welfare country. I would, of course, like to support the committee's proposal.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-213	Madam President, I would like First of all, I will say that I share Karolina Skog's picture that everything will not be the same as before. I also see a great need for investment – we are going to invest our way out of the crisis. But I would really like an answer to a rather simple question. It may also be complex, but I think it's quite simple. Yesterday it became clear that the government, as owner of SAS, is providing more resources. It is a responsibility that I think is important in the crisis. Regardless of what you think about who will own SAS and when and how it is important for the state to take responsibility as owner and that we have a functioning airline even when the crisis is over. At the same time, the announcement came that Arlanda's expansion will be stopped. It was one of the ministers of the government, the environmental party Per Bolund, who gave this message. Then there was some confusion, I think. Different parties said different things, and even Social Democrats in the government had different answers. This is an important issue for the future, and that is why my question is: Is there an agreement between the Social Democrats and the Green Party that Arlanda's expansion should be stopped?
i-5710f0140e75dd18-216	Madam President, I would like Let me start with what Elisabeth Svantesson started by mentioning: SAS. The state owns SAS, because there is an analysis that it is a great advantage that it is in Swedish and Scandinavian ownership. We see a development in the world where there may be a buying party that can lead to structural changes in the robustness of the Swedish economy. That is why the government has asked us here in Parliament to enter into sharp negotiations with the other owners. Once the government has said so, it will continue. The Swedish government will then propose to the other owners that strong climate requirements should be imposed in connection with the recapitalisation – just as many other countries have done. The Government also proposes a capital injection to Swedavia. When you look at a crisising company, you obviously look at the situation and the costs. For Swedavia there have been investment plans and expansion plans. At the same time, two things have happened. Flying has decreased in the long term. Even before Corona, flying decreased. Then there's the big case. Then Swedavia has signalled that the investments are no longer valid. Some of the investments were already clear for – it is on Swedavia to put them on the table. Some are not yet handled. The Government jointly notes that in this situation, when both the long-term and the crisis has slowed down, discussions about the expansion of Arlanda will no longer be relevant.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-220	Madam President, I would like I don't know if the answer made any sense to me. I can see that although we are going to change our behaviour in terms of flight – aviation is now down, but it will resume – aviation will be a very important part of the transport sector. We will travel by air both to other countries and within the country. Therefore, of course, Arlanda Airport is also important. But what I understand from what Karolina Skog is now saying is that there is an agreement between the Social Democrats and the Green Party not to expand Arlanda. Is that really so? That message is very important. I fundamentally believe that Arlanda's capacity needs to be increased, especially if Bromma is not to continue for the decades to come, as the Green Party often says. Sooner or later you will hit the capacity ceiling at Arlanda. To stop the expansion at that stage is unfortunate. But I still don't feel that it was a clear answer. Have the Social Democrats and the Green Party agreed to stop the expansion of Arlanda– yes or no? I do not think, Madam President, that the Member of Parliament should hide behind Swedavia. Of course there is a political decision somewhere.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-223	Madam President, I would like In the face of a recapitalisation of a company, if you are going to enter with more money, it is natural and obvious that you look at the conditions for that company long-term and short-term. When it comes to Swedavia, several things are important. We can note that flying in the world and Sweden is decreasing over time. It's not just connected to the crisis. Then we have a drastic case, which is why we need to recapitalise. The government has done a summary of these two things and has stated in dialogue with the company that it will not be necessary to expand Arlanda. The government will therefore not proceed with what has been called Färdplan Arlanda.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-226	Madam President, I would like It is good that Arlanda should not be expanded. I also hope that one day will come when Bromma airport is closed. We are going to expand trains and railways, so that people can move quickly and climately well, simply. My question to Karolina Skog is about Arbetsförmedlingen. Today it was an article in the paper Work, and we have seen elements in Swedish Television in the past. I also have contacts with many employment agencies and also managers at Arbetsförmedlingen. You could say that the situation is under a lot of pressure. Many people have lost their jobs in the crisis and need to be registered, but the Public Employment Service has not been given the resources to do that job. The employment services have less resources today than they had when there were far fewer unemployed. This has consequences. Above all, it has consequences when you do not have time to enter people. They'll have to wait a very long time to get a refund. But the rent will be paid, and the food will be paid. People are left in limbo. But it also has consequences for a lot of people who today may be further behind the line – people with disabilities or who for other reasons have been unemployed for a long time. They do not get the help and support they need to get into the labour market and get a job. Cooperation with municipalities is also removed in many places, as is the presence around local employers. This makes it much more difficult to push down unemployment and ensure that people get into work. What does the government intend to do to change the situation of the Employment Service so that people who become unemployed can get the support and help they actually need? I am thinking above all of those who were unemployed even before the crisis.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-233	Madam President, I would like The labour market in Sweden has changed in an extremely drastic way. The government has taken a series of measures to address it, but this is also a work that analyses the situation while reforms are being presented. A main focus has been to expand training places in several different reforms. I think the most important thing for Arbetsförmedlingen is that they have places to lock people into. In a situation where there will be no great influx of jobs to channel people into, the expansion of the breadth of the adult education sector is extremely important. The government has also made efforts to strengthen or perhaps above all to hold back the reduction. Ensuring that there is a presence throughout the country has been an important focus for the government. Targeted efforts have been made on this. We have also strengthened Arbetsförmedlingen in this situation. But this crisis came along with a huge reform of the Employment Service. It is clear that this has put enormous pressure on the authority. The fact that these things happened so close to each other, unfortunately, we cannot make it go away. Of course, this means that there will be a very big pressure. We need to keep a close eye on progress. It should not be that people have to wait to get in touch with Arbetsförmedlingen. It's supposed to be there for people all over the country.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-238	Madam President, I would like Of course, there will be great pressure when so much happens in a short time, but I did not hear an answer about what the government intends to do in order for Arbetsförmedlingen to get the resources that are actually needed to meet this pressure. I had contact with the employment agency last night. They then told us that part of the time they have they have to spend teaching the new private actors, i.e. the Public Employment Service has to train the new private actors. We also know that the government has cut substantially the appropriations for the Employment Service. The employment agencies I spoke to before the crisis said: we do not even have the time, because we lose so many employees, to face the unemployed. And we don't have the money to invest in those we have time to meet. If the situation was so before the crisis, I think Karolina Skog can well imagine what the situation is now. The thing about presence in the whole country, it's still a little bit like that. Last night I was able to read about the consequences of the fact that the Employment Service is not present in Söderhamn, for example. You cannot continue the work that you had with the municipality to get the long-term unemployed into work. It was well known, and it was a very good result. But it's now destroyed. My question remains: what does the government intend to do to ensure that the Public Employment Service is given the necessary resources and that people who have been in unemployment for a long time receive efforts and support to enter the labour market? This applies to disabled people, to people with short education and, above all, to people with a different language background. So what does the government intend to do to ensure that something happens in the right direction?
i-5710f0140e75dd18-244	Madam President, I would like Now we have a situation where, unfortunately, many people have lost their work in the spring. Many of them may be close to getting it back when the economy starts to grow again and the Employment Service lists are filled up. For many, it is wise to focus now, during this period, on short or long training for conversion. It is a task throughout the labour market. Another is, as Ulla Andersson says, that we must manage to keep the focus on those who are long-term unemployed, the group that still exists. I note today that the combination of these two developments, together with a major reorganisation of the Public Employment Service, means that we will be following developments very closely. I see that there is certainly reason to come back with reforms that ensure that the Public Employment Service is given the opportunity to carry out its mission.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-247	Madam President, I would like Swedish civil society and Association Sweden consists of 250 000 organisations, is the employer of 180 000 people and engages millions of people. It plays a major role in our society, and in times of crisis this may be particularly evident. The public measures and recommendations taken to reduce the spread of infection have increased the vulnerability of many in our society, and civil society has been there for them. At the same time, Association Sweden and civil society themselves are very strongly affected by the economic crisis, not least by the recommendations and restrictions. This means that revenue is falling. It also means, when companies cannot contribute as they usually do, that you lose big revenue. This applies to sales, camp operations and premises that cannot be rented out. This quickly became the reality for the broad civil society in Sweden. According to a report, which I believe many have taken note of, the overall impact of the revenue step is estimated to be well over SEK 1 billion, and then the sports movement is not included in the amount. I know, Madam President, that the Green Party, like us Christian Democrats, often has a great interest in protecting civil society. Nevertheless, I mean, support has been small, late or not adapted to the reality of civil society. According to a new survey, 50 percent of the organisations' representatives are now concerned about what their future should look like at all. And nine out of ten feel that the government's support package is not adapted for them. We and the Left Party have proposed a committee initiative to produce a crisis package for this, but it has been rejected today. My question is: what does the government intend to do instead?
i-5710f0140e75dd18-252	Madam President, I would like Jakob Forssmed is right to say that the Green Party, like the Christian Democrats, is really protecting civil society in Sweden. This spring has clearly shown what a tick it is for all of us. Very important efforts have been made. One of the first measures taken by the government in these times was to direct contributions to the clearly affected cultural and sports sectors, where many non-profits are active. Gradually, specific contributions have been made to organisations aimed at victims of violence, women and vulnerable children, and also to those working to reach older people, who are now in isolation. So, of course, targeted contributions have been made. That is not to say that we can see that everything is peace and joy. Another important focus of the Green Party has been that the efforts designed for the business community include the business of the non-profit sector, for there are quite a few associations that have one leg there. They conduct business such as secondhand trading. I have had close contact with this sector to ensure that it is included in the conversion support that is on the Riksdag table. It has been one thing that the sector has put forward as important, and it is one of the things that has been in the focus of mine and the Green Party during the spring.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-255	Madam President, I would like I am aware of the things the government has done. That is why my criticism remains. They have been good but completely inadequate. In my opinion, support for the sports movement is not enough either. I do not think that money has been given where there has been an opportunity to distribute it. I understand this in the first, early perspective. The government needs to make more effort to reach the broad civil society. I believe that this is not happening. Today there was an opportunity to come forward with an initiative to put further pressure on the government. I understand that Karolina Skog rejects it, along with several other parties which, I think, have not really taken in reality. Karolina Skog himself mentioned the conversion aid. There have been some changes. For example, the requirement for F-tax has been removed, but CSOs still say that the support is not adapted to them. These are the wrong comparative months. Many of them are too small but cannot apply for the grant together because they have different company numbers. They should be able to seek it together as a group for it to work. Much of the activities of the organisations are later than the reference months of March and April, and the aid cannot have an effect on them. The same applies to the definition of the amount of turnover. Not all of their revenues are included in the amount. So it is not adapted to them. On these issues too, I have put forward proposals in the Committee on Finance that aid needs to be changed in order to be able to benefit fully from the aid. But this has also been rejected. So my question is: What comes instead? Why do you reject all these proposals, Karolina Skog, without presenting alternatives to civil society? If you're going to do this, when are they coming?
i-5710f0140e75dd18-261	Madam President, I would like I am quite convinced that Jakob Forssmed knows and understands that, in the first place, I am not acting through committee initiatives, although we have reached an agreement several times this spring. That's how we can work during a time of crisis, but it's not my way of working in the first place. It has been an important thing after dialogue with the non-profit sector, to the extent that it has been possible. There is, for example, a critical European Commission in its back looking closely at how we shape conversion aid. The aid was initially only intended for companies, but we have ensured that it includes the non-profit sector, including by removing the requirement for an F tax note. This is an important measure for some parts of the non-profit sector in Sweden. It is a measure, but we need to look at the whole picture. I think it is good that Jakob Forssmed is highlighting the non-profit sector, so that we get it on the retina and have it with us now that, as has been repeated many times here today, we really follow developments and sum up. As a whole, we have done exactly the right things, based on how it has really come to pass. We will have to take that review with us when we start up the business again after a few summer weeks. We are in no way finished dealing with the economic crisis we are in the middle of.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-264	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank you for a good debate. I would also like to thank the Committee on Finance for its constructive and rapid action in the spring. In an acute crisis, we have been able to put aside the usual debates and gather together to take Sweden through the crisis, for the good of Sweden. I would like to express my special thanks to Emil Källström, Mats Persson and Karolina Skog for many and long evenings at the Ministry of Finance. I would also like to extend warm thanks to the staff at the Finance Committee's office for their prompt and correct work under severe pressure. Your efforts, that of both Members and officials, have made a big difference to Sweden. I hope now that everyone gets a well-deserved rest this summer and comes back with new energy. It will be needed. This crisis is by no means over. Although pressure on intensive care places has eased, many Swedes die, and the risk of a second wave is obvious. There have been many sports-related metaphors to describe this crisis, and I myself have been guilty of some of them. But unlike both the vasal race and the marathon race, no one knows how far to finish in this particular race. For many, it feels as if the acute phase is now over; and so perhaps it is. But it is also true that our endurance is now being put to the test. Here I know that frustration is great in many who ask: How long will it continue like this? Not least, many who are over 70 years of age or who belong to other risk groups testify to loneliness but also to the fact that they feel identified as weak and helpless. Many also bear a feeling of injustice that some live their lives almost as usual while feeling locked up and isolated. It's not fair, is it? The virus is unfair, and it will not be negotiated with. Therefore, there is no alternative either. As long as we do not have a vaccine, everyone must adhere to the recommendations of the authorities, so that we keep the spread of infection down, relieve health care and protect people at risk. Keep your distance, wash your hands and stay at home if you have symptoms. But we also need to consider what we can do to help others. Keep in touch with loved ones who feel lonely. Try to find ways to socialize that is safe from the spread of infection. And for us to get through this, we have to endure. But in order to cope, we also need to support each other, both as fellow humans and as a society. Madam President, I would like When this House decides today on guidelines for economic policy, it is in a situation as serious as it is difficult to assess. The world economy has suffered a decline in demand for historical proportions in terms of both the size of falls and speed. Sweden's export industries have suffered both falling demand and extensive disruption in supply chains. In the labour market, the number of unemployed is rising, while employment and labour force participation are falling. The public financial impact is falling tax revenues at both central and local government levels. Although a certain rise can now occur in the economy, it is from a low level, and uncertainty remains very high. It also keeps the readiness to take new crisis measures high. I can say this because Sweden has been saving in the barns during the good years, and we entered this crisis with the lowest public debt since 1977. Unlike many other countries, Sweden has not only great room for manoeuvre to deal with the initial phase of the crisis. We also have economic muscles needed to support the recovery of the economy that will sooner or later be carried out. Madam President, I would like In addition to the Spring Economic Bill and the Spring Change Budget, the Government has so far submitted a total of nine amending budgets to the Riksdag. The crisis measures taken by the government are historic in scope and speed. The direct public financial impact of crisis measures now amounts to SEK 250 billion. In addition, hundreds of billions have been made available in loans and guarantees. Several of the previous speakers have explained the government's emergency measures, and I will not list them all. But I would like to remind you of the four steps that the government, in cooperation with the Center Party and the Liberals, has been working on. The first is that health care, disease protection and care for the elderly should have all the necessary financial resources. Here I would like to highlight in particular the fact that the state is taking the bill for all the reasonable additional costs that municipalities and regions have in healthcare and care for the elderly due to the Corona virus. The government's message to all health care workers and elderly care workers who are now struggling with many and long hours of work is clear: a lack of money does not, will not and will not stand in the way of your important work. In this context, I would also like to clarify something else, namely that Sweden does not take any economic account in the fight against the virus. Saying something else is wrong. The second step of the strategy is to alleviate the economic effects of the virus. To save people's jobs and livelihoods, viable Swedish companies are supported with financial assistance so that they can overwinter the crisis and quickly return to full business whenever possible. Not least, state aid for short-term lay-off has enabled hundreds of thousands of Swedish employees to fall in working time rather than go out into unemployment. According to the Government's latest forecast, 1.3 million employees will benefit from this support for the current year. At the same time, however, it is clear that not all jobs and businesses will be saved. That is why we also work with increased security for those who become unemployed. Already 100 000 Swedes have lost their jobs, and the figure is likely to rise. That is why you need support in order to be able to return to work and have security during this period of unemployment. That is why unemployment insurance has received more reasonable levels of compensation and, together with the relief of the membership conditions, we see that the large membership of the a-kassas under the alliance government has now been brought home. But as important as financial security is, it is also that there is a clear way back to work. This is why the pace of the expansion of the number of training places in recent years has been further increased, so that those who become unemployed will be met both with clear requirements and with good opportunities to replenish skills or take the opportunities to completely transform into a new profession. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say something about the economic recovery. As part of the emergency packages, general state grants to municipalities and regions are raised by SEK 26 billion, of which SEK 12.5 billion is permanent. Thus, municipalities and regions will have the necessary breathing space to avoid mass layoffs and major cuts in tax revenues. This strengthens care, education and care, but it is also a powerful policy to meet the economic downturn. In recent years, an increasing number of researchers have also pointed out that public consumption and public investment are a very effective policy to meet economic downturns and to save jobs. Sweden therefore has a historic opportunity to carry out strong investments that drive the economic revival while addressing our long-term societal problems and challenges. Not least, Sweden has great investment needs in welfare. At the same time as many children are born, the proportion of older people in the population is increasing. This requires new preschools, schools, health centres and retirement homes. Not least, the entire care for the elderly will be extended because the 40th generation that is now beginning to come up in its 80s and that has built up this country during its working life will of course also have the right to a safe old age. But this is not just a question of morality – because it is a moral issue – it is also an issue of economy. Because if the care of the elderly is not enough, it is only a matter of time before people of my age, usually women, start to fall into working hours or leave the labour market completely to take care of their old parents themselves. That is why, during the last term of office, the government invested SEK 35 billion in welfare and has announced large additions of resources even during this term of office. In fact, 100 000 more employees now work in welfare compared to 2014. However, if even more people are to be recruited for, for example, care for the elderly, we must continue to provide resources so that all employees receive the right training, reasonable working conditions and wages that are viable. We can not only secure a safe and dignified old age for our elderly, but also create many important jobs in one of Sweden's real future industries. The second area in which we need to invest is, of course, climate change. The crisis offers an opportunity to speed up efforts to make Sweden the world's first fossil-free welfare country. Investments that reduce Sweden's emissions and break our dependence on oil not only create jobs here and now, but also represent our generation's chance to hand over a more sustainable society to our children and grandchildren. But the climate issue is also a matter of our future prosperity. Sweden will have a leading position in the global climate race for investments and innovations. It creates faith in the future and sustainability, and not least it creates jobs. Jobs, Madam President, must now shape all other policies. This applies not least to Sweden's young people who now go out into adulthood and will make a living on a hard-pressed labour market. Therefore, every young person should have good opportunities and clear demands to get to work. You need to be ready to reposition your plans and go where the jobs are, start studying a little earlier or choose a different education from the one you had in mind. At the same time, all young people who find it difficult to find a job should also know that there is help to get. Our young people should not begin their adult life in long-term unemployment and inaction. We are facing many serious risks right now, but if it is something that Sweden absolutely cannot afford, it is a lost generation of young people. This is also a generation of young people who have taken a huge responsibility and made great sacrifices in this crisis when both upper secondary schools and universities have had to switch to distance learning. Many young people have not been given the education they might have needed, and those who have graduated from high school in recent weeks have had to make great sacrifices in order to protect our elderly and at-risk groups and support the health care staff and elderly care staff in order to limit the spread of infection. When we study the CV in the future, we will remember that those who graduated in the spring of 2020 are a generation that has made great sacrifices and taken responsibility for Sweden and for their fellow human beings. Madam President, I would like The first steps are now under way in the preparation of the budget proposal for 2021. In addition to a strong policy for jobs, welfare and climate, Sweden must also continue to address other societal problems. It is clear that we must continue to strengthen Sweden's emergency preparedness and defence. Many residential areas are plagued by everyday crime and violent crime. More foreign born – not least women – must come to work, with the freedom and community and self-determination that come with their own livelihood. As the economy turns and it starts to rise again, of course, we must also build new economic ramparts for the next crisis. The cooperation between the government, the Center Party and the Liberals has shown during the spring that we have the power to act and that it is there when Sweden works together. Now work continues to take Sweden through the crisis. I also want to take the chance to wish everyone a really happy, though something unusual, summer.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-301	Madam President, I would like We have talked about – and introduced and implemented – crisis packages and measures. The temporary reduction in the employer's contribution will expire in June, i.e. about quite exactly two weeks. The conversion aid, which is not yet in place but which hopefully comes into place in connection with tomorrow's vote, expired already in April. So it has expired even before it has even come into place. The higher rate of short-term lay-off, i.e. the lay-off aid that allows up to 80 per cent lay-off, expires in July. I really want nothing more than to start planning and working on the next phase of this – to strengthen the business community in different ways, lastingly and in the long term. The point of a market economy is not to avoid business failures at all costs; it is almost the opposite, if you are going to be a little crass. Darwin could as well have been an economist as a biologist. I believe that the difference between me and the Minister for Finance here is that I do not think this crisis is over yet, but I think we will have to extend a few of these aids at least a few months or over the summer months. The question is, in short: is there any likelihood whatsoever that the Minister of Finance will land in the same conclusion as I do?
i-5710f0140e75dd18-305	Madam President, I would like I will begin by recalling that the crisis measures taken by the government are quite unique in size and have not been seen in previous crises in Sweden, both in terms of support or assistance to companies and in terms of measures to support municipalities and regions in this situation. Throughout this period we have tried to be very flexible and tried to follow developments very closely, work on different scenarios and then, based on developments, come up with measures quickly and quickly. Of course, we at the Ministry of Finance continue to closely monitor economic developments to see what additional measures – if required – would be most appropriate to come up with based on the development. The measures we have taken so far have slightly different end dates. The conversion aid is, of course, an aid for the turnover step in March and April, but it will be paid out this summer and will, of course, make it easier for many companies. Short-term lay-off is something that will run virtually all this year, and this will of course be important for many companies. The deferrals on tax accounts will also run for a long time. So these are a little different phases. I also think it is important to say that now that the travel restrictions are released, there is an opportunity for the tourism and tourism industry, which would otherwise have been under great pressure, to perhaps even have a good summer if you adapt the business. It is clear that the conditions are slightly different from what they would otherwise have done, but of course we follow the development and see what we judge is best balanced. We also see a slight upturn in the economy, and we also need to look at it a little more closely.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-310	Madam President, I would like I was thinking a little more specifically about the tourism industry that has the majority of its activities and its turnover just during the summer months – campings, guest harbours, amusement parks or whatever it may be. Is there any information for this industry? There are about 30,000 people who have been given notice or lost their job. It's normal, or quite common, that there are quite a lot of young people coming in and working. It is clear that it would have been a positive signal to this industry, or to this industry, if one could have said that the temporary reduction in the employer's contribution would have been extended not only in June but also in July and August. It could have been a rather strong signal to a modest cost in this context. My question, then, is whether there is any specific answer to them. Madam President, I would like Finally – since I forgot in my speech at the beginning – I wish the President, the Minister for Finance and the Members of this House such a happy and pleasant summer as the conditions allow.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-313	Madam President, I would like The tourism industry can, of course, benefit from all the support available, both short-term lay-off, rent support and conversion aid. There are also opportunities for the tourism industry to take part in the possibility of postponing taxes. We haven't worked very much with sector-specific support, except for rent support. Here, of course, we will see how things develop this summer. It is also the case that now, given that many Swedes are now planning a holiday in Sweden, there is an opportunity for the Swedish tourism industry to have a really good summer. Given that you are able to adapt your business to the current restrictions and to keep your distance, there will be good opportunities to have a summer where you get substantial revenue.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-315	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your speech. Thanks also for the cooperation during the spring on a wide range of issues where we have been able to hook arms to make Sweden better and take Sweden through the crisis! We received gloomy figures from Arbetsförmedlingen today about the prospects for many who have lost or are at risk of losing their job. We can see, as the Minister for Finance also did in his speech, that without the lay-off aid it would have looked far worse. It is very good that the government got it in place and that it increased both the subsidy and lay-off rates in the system. There is, however, a lump in the Minutes, I think, with regard to this support, and this is about temporary employment. We have a system in place in Sweden that has not changed during the crisis. This means that the Swedish Agency for Growth has asked 75 000 companies to date: Have you fired enough fixed-term employees, consultants, substitutes and other people with fixed-term employment? If you have not done so, there will be an automatic no to your application for lay-off aid. I asked the Minister for Finance about this in April, Madam President. The Minister for Finance then argued that this would be a new approach, despite the fact that this issue has been present in the Swedish discussion since at least 2011. But the Minister of Finance also said that she was prepared to review the aid, look at it with open eyes and go through if there is reason to change this. But that has not happened. And the damage has become even greater, and now it's basically done, is my assessment. If the Minister of Finance can nevertheless venture to evaluate the aid, I ask the question: Was it not wrong here? Was this not an unreasonable requirement to impose on companies in such a deep recession, and should these people not also be included?
i-5710f0140e75dd18-320	Madam President, I would like Jakob Forssmed has pointed this out several times. Of course, it is important to look through and consider whether the aid has been designed in the best possible way. I believe that we will be able to continue to discuss this in the light of the next crisis. I think it is important to distinguish between the two systems of short-term lay-off. A system applies in a deep recession that affects the whole economy and applies to the whole labour market. Then this requirement is not included. Then the compensation levels are also significantly lower. There is also no requirement for companies to show that they have serious economic problems. Then there is the system that we quickly lifted at the beginning of the crisis and which applies to companies that for some reason have major economic problems. Here it is the coronapandemy that causes you to have major financial problems. This is a much more generous system than the other system. The fact that this requirement exists in this system, not in the general system, is because not all parts of the economy have been affected, but there are sectors where there are jobs. I really think we need to look at this in the future, because what we have seen in the spring is that there are vacancies in the green industries, including agriculture and forestry, but also in the elderly. There you still need labor. Then we can discuss whether this crisis has been so deep that those who would still have been unemployed should be able to take those jobs. That is something that I think we really need to look at in the future. But what we have seen in the spring is that there has been a great demand for labour in not least the green industries.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-326	Madam President, I would like I do not think this is quite connected. I agree that it is a problem that the two systems have existed in parallel and that the government chose a system for a normal economic situation and to screw up the subsidy rate and lay-off requirements in this system. But is it really the view of the Minister for Finance that Sweden has not been in a particularly deep recession? In all crises there are always some positions that are vacant. However, the system referred to by the Minister for Finance is intended for a normal economic situation. That's what makes it so problematic. The OECD evaluations show that those countries that had systems during the financial crisis that did not involve temporary staff changed them to include temporary staff. The Institute of Economics has pointed out that it would be desirable at this stage for the scheme to include temporary staff. I cannot interpret it in any other way than that the Finance Minister thinks this system is good, because there have been many chances of changing it. She thinks it is better that people who have a certain form of employment go into unemployment and that those who have a different type of employment can get caught up in their employment. I think it is a bad crisis policy in this very worrying situation. I thought we agreed that we should try, at this point, to get as many people as possible to remain in employment, at least in the short term, because we know what will happen if unemployment persists. If people get into unemployment, it's a long way back. It is from the worker's perspective the whole basis of the lay-off system that it is worse to end up in unemployment. I still thought there was agreement on this.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-331	Madam President, I would like It is important to recall that we have screwed up the level of compensation in this system and that these are different requirements from those in the general system, where workers themselves take a greater part. I think that is important when discussing this issue. When the worst crisis is over, we will see if we could have done otherwise and if it had been better. It is also important to recall that entire industries have been calling for labour in this crisis as well. One thing you need to think about is how to design both the temporary and the permanent system in the best possible way. It is a bigger issue than that of temporary staff. There we have a situation with medically trained personnel who are short-term laid off with government money while the health care system has a great shortage of staff. I think there is more to consider when it comes to how these systems can be developed in order for them to function even better than they have done during this crisis.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-334	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance addresses the elderly in his speech, and that is a good thing. It needs to be highlighted and debated, and above all it needs resources. The Minister of Finance also notes that if the resources are insufficient, women of her own age will be required to fall in working hours or to stop working. But that's already the case. There are reports showing that over one hundred thousand relatives have already lost working hours or stopped working completely because elderly care is not sufficiently extended. Nevertheless, in their budget, the Moderates and Christian Democrats removed the targeted state contribution of 2 billion, which had provided about 4,000 more employees. And the government, together with its partner parties, has chosen not to keep it. The January agreement hardly mentions care for the elderly despite the fact that it has been well known for a long time that care for the elderly has had a great need for additional resources, despite the contributions we made during the last parliamentary term. These are constant cuts, constant time pressure and stress. Food boxes can stand in the refrigerator for five days and up to a week. You have to stand there and look at those lunch boxes and wonder what kind of food it will be this week... not so good for your appetite. Staff will run in and have to run out again. The staff are talking about having too little time, and the older people are talking about getting too little time. And we know it's fixed-term, part-time, and so on. We spend huge amounts of money saving jobs and businesses – it's very good – but at the same time there are cuts in elderly care. Why, Minister of Finance?
i-5710f0140e75dd18-340	Madam President, I would like It's great that Ulla Andersson brings up elderly care. But in order for us not to be too gloomy, I would like to start by saying that there is an improvement potential in care for the elderly but that we have an amazing elderly care staff. There are so many wonderful staff who work and support the elderly and really struggle and work to deliver the highest quality. Many older people are also very satisfied with both home care and retirement homes and have a nice relationship with the staff there. It is also cooked very good food at our retirement homes in Sweden. This does not mean that there are individual players who can improve quality and that it is an area that we need to expand widely. I see that this will be a major and important task in the future. It's something we've been working on in recent years, and I'm happy about the collaboration I've had with Ulla Andersson about just strengthening elderly care and increasing the number of employees. One of the main points of the January agreement is additional resources for municipalities and regions, and elderly care accounts for a large proportion of local government expenditure and budget. This means that care for the elderly is a central part of what we have said in the January agreement that we should spend resources on. It has also been important during this spring, when the efforts that municipalities and regions have received in the form of general state subsidies have been historically large in scale. This will enable elderly care to maintain quality also through this crisis.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-344	Madam President, I would like Yes, there are very good staff, and many old people are satisfied with the efforts they receive. But I practice quite a lot in care for the elderly, and then I get the same answer from both the old and the staff when I ask what is needed: more time, more resources, less stress and better continuity. That is the common thread of all the answers I have received over the years. This is clear. Although the Minister of Finance says that the government has provided resources, both she and I know that cuts are taking place. We can read about how to spend time on showering to save money, how to shop even faster than they already do, how to shut down retirement homes and how to cut down on staff, especially on accommodation with dementia. In many retirement homes, the food is good, but the food in the microboxes that home care runs in and stuffs in the refrigerator is not of the best quality. Older people may need to take part in cooking for them to have an appetite and not to suffer from a lack of nutrition. We know that there are many times, and that gives no quality. Full-time and permanent contracts are needed. Is there a long-term plan for how to secure the resources for welfare and how to make the staff want to stay and that new ones want to go there? We need 130 000 by 2030 to cope with today's quality in care for the elderly – and yet we cannot be satisfied with it, given how it looks and what we have experienced during the corona. Despite the fact that the staff are really struggling and doing everything they can, the resources are far too scarce. Happy summer!
i-5710f0140e75dd18-352	Madam President, I would like I share Ulla Andersson's view that resources are too small and that we need to invest more in care for the elderly. I am pleased with the joint work of mine, the government and Ulla Andersson during the last parliamentary term in order to strengthen care for the elderly. I am proud of the additional resources that we have been able to provide during this term of office, not least this spring with 26 billion in general state subsidies. However, I see that we will have to do much more in the future. This year we have, among other things, worked with an older care lift, which means that people can get employment and education at the same time and where the state pays the salary during the training period. This means that more people will be able to get a permanent job. More resources and more staff are needed, and staff must have reasonable working conditions. There is a need for permanent employment, for this will create continuity, high quality and security – both for staff and the elderly. Sweden needs a longer-term development of elderly care so that more people gain continuity through more permanent employment and more trained staff. It is therefore a good thing that municipalities have been able to expand their professional skills with more training places in the care professions, because more staff will be needed here.
i-G61qCUyLc3sTUWphDQi87g	Madam President, I would like Belgium, Malta, Bulgaria, the Netherlands, Cyprus, Poland, Denmark, Portugal, Estonia, Romania, Finland, Slovakia, France, Slovenia, Greece, Spain, Ireland, Italy, Czech Republic, Croatia, Germany, Latvia, Hungary, Lithuania, Austria and Luxembourg. It is all EU countries except one. What do all these countries have in common? Since autumn 2014 until February this year, all these countries have had a better development of their unemployment than Sweden has had. Sweden is therefore the last on this list. This concerns me, Madam President, and over the years to come our most important task will be to combat unemployment. Does the Minister of Finance share the view that we have had too poor a development despite a strong boom? And if we look ahead, what structural reforms are needed to push back unemployment in the coming years so that even the many who became unemployed before the crisis can get back to work when it turns around?
i-5710f0140e75dd18-360	Madam President, I would like Finland, Denmark, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Slovenia, Croatia, Greece, Austria, Hungary, Italy, Spain, Portugal, France, United Kingdom, Ireland, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg and Germany are countries with lower employment rates than Sweden. We therefore have the highest proportion of the population employed throughout the EU. All these countries also have lower labour supply. The reason for Swedish development is not that we have low employment, but that with our historically high labour supply, we outperform everyone across the EU. In recent years, the rising labour supply in Sweden has surprised many assessors and forecasters. Employment is therefore not bad without very good labour supply. This is fundamentally positive, because if you are to get into work, you must of course be in the labour market. I am concerned that unemployment, not least youth unemployment, is at risk of increasing in the future. But it would also be very worrying if labour supply were to be reduced, not least for those who have now entered the labour market, namely women born abroad.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-364	Madam President, I would like It is clear why we have not had structural reforms to repress unemployment. After all, there is no problem with it, said the Minister of Finance. Despite the fact that there have been more long-term unemployed since Stefan Löfven and Magdalena Andersson became ministers in the Swedish government, this is clearly not a problem. I share the view that it is fantastic that we have had strong employment trends, but I can never share the view that it would not be a problem for more and more people to end up in unemployment. We cannot give up the fight against unemployment. I and the Moderates will fight every day for many years to come to implement real and important reforms to push back unemployment. It is about training and conversion. It is a question of getting an education obligation that really is an education obligation. It is a benefit reform and a tax system that favours entrepreneurship and can provide more jobs. The list can be made long. I hope that when we come back this autumn we can continue in the same constructive spirit to come up with proposals for the good of Sweden. However, if we do not share the picture that it is a problem that so many people are unemployed despite strong employment developments, it will be difficult to agree on important reforms to push back unemployment. Let me make it very clear: I will not come back here after the summer with a happy face because employment has increased. That's good. But we had high unemployment even before the crisis – it hit all the time high for immigrant women – and I will fight it every day.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-369	Madam President, I would like The fact that we Social Democrats want to combat unemployment, I believe, has not escaped anyone. But it is not possible to say otherwise when it comes to an international comparison in which Sweden stands out than that this applies not only to unemployment but also to labour supply. This is due not least to the fact that women born abroad are now part of the labour market. They have entered the labour market. This is due, in particular, to structural reforms implemented by this government in relation to parental insurance, education obligations and the removal of support in order not to work, such as the custody allowance. These are structural changes that we have made in order for people to enter the labour market. Then, of course, we will take further steps to get to work as well. Extra services are such a measure that many, not least foreign-born women who are new to the labour market, who have now come out with the increase in labour supply, have also taken a step into work. In addition, the further development of outreach methods and education is of course the way forward. But it is only possible to say that in an international comparison Sweden has a uniquely high labour supply and a uniquely high employment rate, not least because so many women work in Sweden. We should be proud of this – while ensuring that we continue to fight unemployment.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-374	Madam President, I would like The situation in the economy is gloomy. People's lives are shaking in their foundations. Sweden was not equipped to face the current Corona crisis. We already had a housing shortage. The medical system was already on its knees. We already had a lot of unemployment. We already had poor pensioners. We see, in the footsteps of the pandemic, how fragile and unstable capitalism is. Neo-liberal consensus prevails here in Parliament on austerity, on budgetary surpluses and on the fiscal framework. The framework requires that it is saved in the barns, while the community building has fallen. The framework is based on neo-liberal ideology. The public sector has been regarded as bureaucracy. It's supposed to be restricted, as they say. Private capital was said to be more effective. Since the 1980s, it has been said that the public sector is too large. It's supposed to shrink and become private, you've been told. That is what we are reaping the fruits of today. And then there would be such formidable growth. What is now growing are the profits of new private companies in tax havens. Today we can see what this effectiveness has meant in terms of decommissioned emergency stocks and the abolition of good health and medical care. Better school, it said on Moderate whale posters in the '90s. The school was privatized, and the educational result was bad. But the profits were great and good. As a socialist, I stand in total opposition to the policy being pursued now. The economy is there for the people, not the other way around. The people's elections take precedence over big business, as the Social Democrats said earlier. I believe that the objectives of economic policy should be full employment. The government budget can go with the required deficit. Arbitrary targets for budget deficits and sovereign debt – as in the fiscal framework and the EU Treaty – should be totally rejected. Work for all, full employment, should be the objective of economic policy. Unemployment will be eliminated after decades of permanently high unemployment. Everyone who can have a full-time job on a contractual salary. A general employment programme is to be created in which all those who have not been able to find a job are to be employed. This eliminates the need for degrading unemployment management, such as the Job and Development Guarantee. A great deal of useful work will be done. We can afford to put people to work. We can no longer afford to waive that requirement. Work for everyone is a gender equality issue. Unemployment hits women in particular. Madam President, I would like The right to work is an integration issue. Unemployment is particularly hard on those living in suburban areas. There's a lot of people out of work there. Work for everyone is also a youth issue. Young people are hard hit by politics. Full employment is a matter of power. If we have full employment, the threat of unemployment is losing its momentum. This strengthens the position of the workers. When everyone gets a job, we can also continue to shorten working hours. The goal is that a working week should not last longer than 30 hours. As a socialist, I reject any relaxation of labour law. This policy is based on a lie that insecurity creates jobs. The Social Democrat who stands up for such a policy betrays everything that the Swedish labour movement has fought for. Unless you as an employer can offer a secure and permanent employment at a good, contractual salary, you have no future in the Swedish labour market. Madam President, I would like Housing is a social right, not a commodity. Housing is a responsibility for society. With the right fiscal policy, we can afford substantial investment in the housing sector. Large new production of public-interest rentals. A state-owned building and housing company shall be established. The housing issue is a gender equality issue. The lack of housing makes it particularly difficult for women who separate to find a new dwelling. The housing issue is also an integration issue. People with foreign background are far more affected than others by overcrowding and housing shortages. We have seen this during the Corona crisis; we have seen how it affects. The housing issue is also a youth issue. Today, there are a quarter of a million young people living at home with their parents, although they would rather move. When we give the young people the right to a home, we open the door to their, and our, future. Madam President, I would like Any proposal on market rents shall be categorically rejected. If you cannot offer a good dwelling for a reasonable rent as a landlord, you have no future in the Swedish housing market. The Corona crisis shows that social welfare providers are those who work in health care, school and care, not Jacob and Marcus Wallenberg. To this end, health care providers should be strengthened, and they should be given safe and secure employment. We're not going to have any more cuts in welfare. Well, well-being should provide security for everyone. In concrete terms, this means that state grants to municipalities should be increased in order to achieve the objectives. We clearly see that pharmacies are not suitable for profit-making business. The apotheque will be transferred to government. We have seen too well during the Corona crisis how the privatised and cut-down elderly care is lacking. The Swedish school will become a world-class institution. Resources will increase and staff will increase. The purpose of the school is not to create profits for private venture capitalists but to provide knowledge and know-how. The school will give children what they need to become full citizens of society. This is so crucial that the school should be run by the state. Everyone must receive equal training. The religious schools are going away. We don't need dogmas and superstitions. We need science. The gender apartheid and standards of honor of religious schools must cease. The school is supposed to counteract segregation, not the other way around. Madam President, I would like Private companies have no interest in any welfare – only in profits. A good and safe pension should be a matter of course. Words such as "poor pensioner" and "retirement anxiety" should never have to be pronounced. The shameful pension policy now under way is to be buried. Pensions should be increased substantially. No one should be poor because you're retired. The starting point shall be that the pension shall correspond to 80 per cent of the final salary. Good pensions are also a gender equality issue. The vast majority of pensioners today are women. This injustice must be removed. The road and rail network shall be in the international top class. The energy and transport sectors will become fossil-free. Public investments should be the engine of the climate change transition, not excise duties on plastic bags. We have also learned from the Corona crisis that large public investments need to be made in order to have an acceptable level of emergency preparedness. Then it is not good enough with slim storage and just in time deliveries. Public investment helps to provide jobs for all. Madam President, I would like Taxes do not need to be increased in order to achieve the objectives of economic policy. On the other hand, they have other important functions in society. Through taxes, we will radically increase equality. There is no social benefit in that a CEO earns as much as 61 industrial workers, nor in that a top capitalist like Antonia Ax:son Johnson pays a smaller share in tax than a regular employee. Capital has managed to buy many politicians who aim for well-paid lobbying careers, such as Filippa Reinfeldt at Wallenberg-owned Vectura and Göran Hägglund, PR consultant for the care capitalist Onemed. Changes that the people want to see, such as a ban on profits in welfare, lack support among bought politicians – who, on the contrary, support changes people do not want to see, such as market rents and loosened labour law. Strong tax measures will drain this swamp of corruption. Income over 200 000 SEK per month shall be taxed at 75 per cent income tax and income over 400 000 SEK per month at 100 per cent. A higher income than that is not a reasonable remuneration for any job. A wealth tax is to be introduced. The part of a fortune that exceeds about SEK 47 million shall be taxed at 5 per cent annually. This is an economic policy for the people and the future. This is the path I want to see Sweden go. And there are a lot of people who agree with me. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to express my support for my accompanying motion for the spring economic proposal.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-409	Madam President, I would like In today's joint debate, we are also debating the FiU21 report on our amending budget. However, I would like to begin by commenting on the supplementary amending budgets that the government has submitted in connection with the pandemic and against which the Swedish Democrats have had a great deal of objection. As a rule, we have not objected to the proposals themselves, but rather to the fact that the measures have been put in place too hesitantly, too slow and too defensively. We were at the beginning of the crisis and talked about, among other things, the abolition of employers' contributions, the increase and expansion of unemployment funds and turnover support. There has thus undoubtedly been a range of proposals at an early stage to be inspired in order to deal with the crisis more aggressively. The alternative cost in this context is to allow fundamentally viable companies to be shut down and destroyed, resulting in a run-down mass unemployment. That's what we see the beginning of now. Madam President, I would like Within the framework of this amending budget, we have tabled a specific opinion to explain our positions. In the situation that Sweden is in right now, we have come to the conclusion that the scope for the government to deal with the crisis should be given when the political dividing lines allow it. However, there are, of course, areas and priorities in this amending budget which nevertheless seem somewhat strange. For example, media support is being increased for unclear reasons. The budget does not show convincingly why the media industry, which is certainly going through a tough period like other sectors, should be given special treatment. It is an industry that has the same opportunities and conditions to lay off staff. They have lower employers' contributions, and they will have the same conditions to apply for so-called conversion aid. The crisis measures and incentives taken and taken under the coronapandemy will be financed by an increase in public debt. That bill will of course be paid for by future generations. Therefore, money cannot be scattered to the right and left, but every invested tax chandelier must have a clear purpose and a broad, damaging economic effect. The government must therefore already be one step ahead of and act responsibly when it comes to investments that are not absolutely necessary to save the Swedish economy. Support for the media industry cannot be seen as a socially critical and vital priority. To invest SEK 200 million in addition to the half billion invested in media support in extraordinary amending budget 167, thus not far from SEK 1 billion, is an obvious wrong priority. To use sports terminology, it seems more like a friend's pass, i.e. that the government gives tax money to friends in the media industry, than a serious and logical effort. One area in which the efforts made in this budget are absent is mental health. The pandemic brings major social changes, unemployment and involuntary loneliness, which consequently increases the risks of anxiety, self-harm and high suicide rates. Government efforts in this area were reduced even before the crisis. For example, the national helpline was closed. There are certainly local efforts on various forms of telephone support, but national mental health should also be given priority at national level. The conditions vary depending on where in the country you live, and thus the conditions for getting an equal support function in different parts of the country vary. Let me take a third example. A politically coloured and realistic re-prioritization is when you spend millions of SEK on working with so-called gender mainstreaming. This assignment has been given to the Gender Equality Agency, to which the name remains Sweden's least equal authority with 100 per cent women in the management team. This is certainly not a problem for the Swedish Democrats, but perhaps it should be for those parties who have spoken out for quotas. But even if we ignore the political opinions about the agency, because it's an authority with a clear political purpose, it's a completely crazy priority, no matter how you twist it and turn it around. We have a pandemic of a rare kind, the worst economic crisis since the depression of the 1930s, with hundreds of thousands of deaths, millions of infected people and health professionals screaming for basic protective equipment but having to do with reused masks. The Government will then invest SEK 5 million in gender mainstreaming. I am speechless, Madam President. I would like an explanation on behalf of the Swedish people. Why does the government reduce the grant to Swedish emergency preparedness by SEK 5 million and increase the grant to the Equality Agency by SEK 5 million, i.e. the corresponding amount? Why is that? How is this priority defended? I would like a representative of the government, an environmental party or a social democrat, to take a line on me and explain it. With this issue hanging in the air, I would like to take this opportunity to wish the President, the committee and the officials a nice summer.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-420	Madam President, I would like Today, it is proposed that the Riksdag approve the Riksbank's conclusion of a credit agreement with the IMF for an amount that would double Sweden's lending to low-income countries. This is not the first time that this will come from the IMF. In 2008, we paid off Liberia's debt. In 2016, the Swedish Parliament granted a credit of the same kind that is on the table for decisions today to low-income countries. Just recently, the government announced its intention to transfer SEK 30 million to the IMF's debt relief fund. And just over a month ago, all parties in Parliament, except the Swedish Democrats, decided that Sweden should write off Somalia's debt with SEK 21 million. This assembly thus has a documented history of sending millions of dollars to other countries and calling it loans, to write off what other countries owe Sweden at the next stage. Therefore, it is intellectually dishonest to describe this type of activity in any other way than as mere subsidy activity. The Swedish Democrats will vote against this statement for both reasons of principle and substance. Our approach to grants and assistance is that these should be under Swedish control and supervision so that the electorate can more easily demand responsibility. Neither tax funds nor central bank money should be put at risk by transferring political power far beyond the control of the Swedish people. As we increase the distance between creditors on the one hand, that is, the Swedish people, and aid recipients on the other, such as countries such as Uzbekistan or Somalia, it becomes more difficult for voters to demand responsibility. This creates problems in the form of a democratic deficit in an organisation where we have already seen our total voting power reduced to a modest 0.93%. This case leads to the same basic issue as when we talk about the EU, the Banking Union, military alliances or something else where political accountability is made more difficult and the Swedish people see their influence reduced to a minimum. The answer to the principle that citizens' confidence and influence are managed and guaranteed by free and universal elections will be given in an hour's time, when we see which parties in Parliament vote to outsource Swedish democracy. Madam President, I would like The committee justifies this so-called lending by referring to the emergency situation arising from the coronapndemin. The problem with this logic is that in that case Sweden is also qualified to receive loans from the IMF. The government's Corona strategy has undeniably put Sweden on the map, with an excess mortality among the population and with an excess mortality on our retirement homes. Is there something we're missing here? This request comes when even our country is going through the greatest disease crisis in modern times. In addition to the humanitarian consequences, of course, our society is also faced with major economic trials, resulting in strong GDP cases, bankruptcies, mass unemployment and deflation. At the same time, the government has not been able to achieve the same level as our Nordic neighbours in their efforts to deal with the socio-economic consequences of the pandemic. It opens up for a discussion about the snapshot of the Swedish economy, as the government is clearly not prepared to empty the barns and more to launch an offensive strategy. In the context of lending under the PRGT programme, this context is relevant as creditors are considered to belong to financially strong Member States. Can Sweden be defined as such right now? I don't know the answer to that question. In its calculations, however, even before the pandemic, the Institute showed that public finances were not sustainable in the long term. The Financial Policy Council's report for 2020 calls the government's sustainability calculations of the standard in the public sector unrealistic. And the surplus target has not been reached in a backward-looking perspective. Is Sweden a financially strong Member State when poor pensioners are forced to pick cans and cancer patients die in anticipation of surgery? Sweden is the country with the highest proportion of homeless people in the Nordic countries. We have the biggest employment gap in Europe. And in May Sweden had the highest corona mortality per capita in the world. Is that the image of a financially strong Member State? If you still hesitate, I think you can ask the nurse who is in the front line against covid-19 but does not have basic protective equipment. You can ask the doctor who is forced to decide who lives or dies, because there are not enough care places. You can ask the relatives who have seen their loved ones get their priorities removed because of resource shortages. Look them in the eye and tell them that Sweden is a financially strong Member State! With all due respect, it is perhaps Swedish health care, if anything, that is qualified to receive loans from the IMF. Madam President, I would like I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-430	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal of the Committee on Finance to be approved in the report and for a brief explanation of why we support it. Pandemin covid-19 affects the whole world and our Swedish society. We are hit hard by the virus's rise. The government's efforts to secure resources are only invaluable. They are designed to ensure that municipalities and regions where health care is provided have enough money to deal with the crisis. Sweden can do so because we conduct a responsible fiscal policy that now ensures that resources can be added to save both lives, jobs and businesses. Nevertheless, it is important that we have with us that we are an international player. Even if we are affected by the virus, we are relatively strong. Not all countries are in the same situation as us, with an expanded welfare and internationally competitive company that contributes to that welfare. We in Sweden have been hit hard by the virus. Great efforts are being made every day in the welfare system as a rule, and the shortcomings have been brought up to date in a very clear way in recent times. In any case, the efforts of the last few months are only incredibly impressive and valuable. There are many of us who feel a great deal of gratitude for the m. In the light of various issues to be considered by the Riksdag, such as this one, I think it should be said that welfare cannot be taken for granted. It is far from all the countries of the world that, like us, have a developed economy and a general well-being in this situation. I personally think that in many ways, including this, we should help to make the world a little better place, so that people have their needs met and rights protected and so that the economy can develop. Sweden, which has a small and export-dependent economy, has a long-term interest in countries outside of our own well-being. We want them to have a stronger economy than is the case today, because we are profiting from it in a long-term perspective. Like us, our fellow human beings in other countries are hard hit by the virus's rise. Access to money is then needed in order for the world to get as far away as possible from the consequences of the pandemic – hence this proposal, which is a step forward. The Committee on Finance has decided in broad agreement, with the exception of the Swedish Democrats, that it is reasonable for Sweden to make available loans in the emergency situation resulting from the coronapandemine. It's a most decent decision. If it's not missing, the money's running out about now. This means that we cut off the opportunity for economic development and the possibility of a global economy that can recover. There is a need for both large and small efforts. The decision we are going to take today is therefore a decent and solidarity-based decision that enables capital that is so much needed for low-income countries. This does not mean that Sweden should take a disproportionate share of the responsibility for this. This simply means that we should contribute with others, such as the United Kingdom and Japan, to ensure the prosperity of as many people as possible. What we are about to decide today is additional loan funds covering the needs of the IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth Trust, PRT. This applies to our part in this up to 2024.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-439	Madam President, I would like From the point of view of the Swedish Democrats, I would like to explain our starting point. The problem with these types of programmes, for which the IMF launches and loves money, is that they tend to sooner or later be converted into debt relief. It has a documented history of writing off the debts of other countries. Therefore, this cannot be regarded in any other way than as a grant or aid policy. However, we would have had more confidence in the so-called lending programmes if the loans were de facto paid back to a greater extent. Then I would like to respond to a couple of things that Fredrik Stenberg said in his speech. Some of the countries to which we give money, such as Somalia – 21 million a month ago – are at the top of the corruption index. It's a rogue state. It's about a lot of cases. They do not work with the kind of policy that is important for the Social Democrats – gender equality, environmental issues and so on. Above all, fundamental human rights in these countries are constantly being violated. In what way is the honourable Member convinced that this money is not being used for further corruption in, for example, a country like Somalia? The honourable Member makes a point that contributions would lead to prosperity. There is no such causal link at all, so that argument falls. Singapore was a poor country 50 years ago. It has never received a crown of aid but is today one of the world's prominent nations in the economic sense. Somalia has received so much aid but has not developed any prosperity. I would just like to point out that there is no such causal link. There is no empirical evidence for that claim.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-443	Madam President, I would like I note that the honourable Member does not seem to realise that we are living in a world where we are heavily dependent on a functioning environment, of which we have both social and economic interests. In fact, Sweden would not work without international trade. We are part of an international system. Our contribution to such a system is natural and reasonable. In addition to solidarity, we have an interest in the functioning of the world. We can't do everything. The proposal that is on Parliament's table today does not solve all the world's problems, far from it. But the question I ask myself is: Does the world get better, with less corruption, because countries do not have access to capital at all? Is it not such situations that tend to increase tension and risk leading to much more bad in the world?
i-5710f0140e75dd18-445	Madam President, I would like This has absolutely nothing to do with trade at all. The Swedish Democrats are a trade-friendly party. That is something that we repeatedly emphasise in our political proposals. As regards the honourable Member's question about corruption, how can Swedish taxpayers and voters claim responsibility from political parties? How does the government ensure that this money does not go to more corruption? It will be a very strange order to send money to countries that are at the top of the corruption index and where human rights are constantly violated and then hope that it somehow resolves itself with time or the like. Certain requirements must already be made at this stage and they must be complied with. Then we can start talking about aid and about regular loans, not grants, as it is in this context. I don't get an answer to my question, so I rephrase it. How do the honourable Member, the Government and the Social Democrats ensure that this money does not go to deepening corruption in a country like Somalia?
i-5710f0140e75dd18-448	Madam President, I would like I do not think it is a strange order that Sweden participates in such international programmes. Most parties in the Committee on Finance also felt that this was reasonable. I'm glad. The Swedish Democrats often talk about helping on the ground and making efforts close to the places where the problems are. I note that, in this case, the opposite is the case. In fact, it seems exactly the opposite in almost all cases like this. I think that's a little distressing and a little hypocritical, I'd like to put it that way. How will Sweden ensure this? We do this because we are part of the IMF. We continue to work in that arena to ensure that this is handled properly.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-451	Madam President, I would like Of course, we agree with all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 8. The proposal we are debating is about remote and distance learning. These are really two different types of study. Remote learning takes place in real time with a teacher who leads the education via digital tools. On the other hand, distance learning uses pre-produced material that is distributed to the student digitally for self-study. Both of these forms of study are subject to different requirements from the regular teaching, which is primarily done in the classroom. The Swedish Democrats are keen to preserve rural schools and are in favour of remote education as a way of contributing to the survival of these schools. However, we see a great risk that the added value that students have been promised will fail if the requirements for present adults are watered down. We believe that students should meet physically present trained teachers who pedagogically lead the lessons even in remote teaching. We therefore do not support the Government's proposal to allow unauthorized teachers for that purpose. The same applies to mother tongue education, which we want to abolish completely. The language introduction program of upper secondary school is already being used as a tool for integration of new arrivals. We believe that lowering the eligibility requirements would further complicate this process. Madam President, I would like We need more teachers, not less. Reducing the requirements for teacher qualifications is quite the wrong way to go. Distance learning requires very high quality of the design of the educational material in order to work. There must also be great predictability for what students experience as difficult, complicated or complicated. Unfortunately, the material we see today is of mixed quality and too often directly poor. We must not forget that there is no teacher who can give direct support or be a sounding board for distance learning. Today, Sweden has an estimated 5,500 home-sitting school students, which is a failure for everyone who somehow has a responsibility for Swedish school. We regret that the small student-friendly teaching groups disappeared with the inclusion spirit that has been prevailing in Swedish school policy for a long time. We fear that the government's proposal for distance learning for students with documented medical, mental or social problems will rather permanence the exclusion that the home-sitting students experience. The special educational school authority shares our concerns and rejected the proposal on the grounds that these students will be even more excluded. The Ombudsman for Children rejected the proposal in the consultation round for the reason that distance learning is not an acceptable solution for pupils who have or have previously had problems with their schooling. In the light of the above, we want distance learning to be used with care. We believe that it is much better to return to a functioning school that is perceived as welcoming to these students. However, we are no stranger to try out distance learning in a trial, with educational material designed by qualified teachers. Only after clearly proven successes do we want to proceed with that form of teaching. Madam President, I would like In general, remote and distance learning works best for those students with high motivation and the worst for those with low motivation. Let's not forget it. The government is trying to solve problems with getting qualified teachers and for many students with failed grades by lowering ambitions. It's becoming a pattern. Of course, that is the wrong way to go. It's definitely not a way to develop a world-class school. Recognise the problems and try to solve them – many are difficult – instead of lowering the requirements. The ongoing pandemic, where we have more than ever used studies via the computer, has clearly demonstrated the need to meet physically with the social interaction it entails. However, we cannot ignore the benefits of computer training in such a crisis situation as we are currently in. The possibility of distance learning as a complement has served us well. We have to admit that. But I think we should let it stay there for now. Madam President, I would like In a situation where our students' school results for a long time have fallen since the first PISA measurement in 2000, where Sweden showed high results, we should not experiment too much with that type of tool. The importance of good teachers who physically meet their students, who see them and reconnect both human and knowledge-wise, cannot be overestimated. Our children and young people need more present adults, not distance.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-466	Madam President, I would like 2020 will go down in history as a year when the importance of a strong and equal welfare society became more evident than ever. Some of the professional categories that deserve thanks include the staff of pre-school and school. That thanks should not come in the form of applause or status updates. It will come through more resources and better working environment for all those working in preschool, school and other educational activities. These are some of the professional categories that have ensured that children of nurses, nurses, doctors and care staff have been able to have their childcare and education during the pandemic, which has been an important prerequisite for maintaining the capacity of care and care. Sometimes reality requires the use of alternative methods of teaching. Remote and distance learning are two of them. The Left Party takes a positive view of the possibility of offering remote and distance learning when circumstances require it. But we want to be careful to say that we do not want to go as far as the government proposes. Clearer regulations are welcome. However, the question is whether there is a risk that we will, on inadequate grounds, release many of the rules that have been in place in the past for distance and remote learning. Madam President, I would like The Left Party shares the basic view of the school that the Ombudsman for Children highlights in his referral that the school's task is not only to convey knowledge of the different subjects or courses. School has a much greater role for society. The relationship between teachers and pupils and a climate of trust are of great importance in learning. Teaching and learning take place in a social interaction. Therefore, we believe that the Riksdag should state that long-distance education should not be allowed in subjects other than mother tongue and integrated Sami education in primary school. At middle school, we believe that remote learning should not be allowed in subjects other than mother tongue, modern languages and integrated Sami teaching. Madam President, I would like There are also other aspects that are important in this. Remote and distance learning should not be used in order to add even more tasks to school staff or to have larger groups of children per staff. It should be a complement to, and not a substitute for, regular teaching. I know that we in the Committee on Education share that view, at least among most parties. There is also one more aspect. It is about the profit-making actors that exist within the school. For these players, new methods have always been developed to make even more profit from our tax money and at the expense of children and staff. Therefore, we believe that there should be clear regulation when it comes to this issue not only in regular schooling but also in distance and remote learning. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I would like to endorse Amendment No 5.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-477	Madam President, I would like It is probably not often an issue that has been investigated for a long time and eventually finds its way to Parliament is as hotly topical as that of today's report. When I was invited to a study visit at the Correspondence Upper Secondary School in Torsås last spring as a fairly new Member of Parliament, I was impressed by the experimental activities that are being carried out there for students of very different kinds. It can be elite athletes studying alongside training camps and competitions around the world. It may be children of diplomats, aid workers or other foreign Swedes who in this way can complete their Swedish education instead of having to switch to a national or international school in the country where their parents work. It may be pupils who, for various reasons, cannot attend the traditional school due to illness or disability. There are also good results with home sitters. The Correspondence Upper Secondary School uses a combination of teaching forms that have proved to be effective and could serve as a model for more education providers. These are both distance learning for students who are present in a different time zone – and who can of course also be supplemented with digital meetings early in the morning or late in the afternoon when both the student and the supervisor are awake – and remote teaching in real time and during certain periods so-called local learning, when the students are physically in place to make certain lab elements and other practical. The problem they described at the Correspondence Upper Secondary School in Torsås was that the legislation does not allow this type of mixed form. The last few months have brought up to date the importance of updating the regulatory framework for remote and distance learning. That's why I was disappointed when the bill came. It is true that adjustments have been made, but the regulatory framework is still very fragmented. For example, the regulations do not allow a teacher who teaches remote education to have some students in the classroom at the same time. After all, it is absurd if you have some pupils who are to be taught a subject in a small rural school or, for example, in native language education, together with some other students at another school. Thus, although the teacher is physically present at the first school, students in the same school must stay in another classroom, with tutors, instead of being in the classroom where the teacher is. In that case, resources will not be used effectively. During the first few weeks of the coronapandemine, many schools tried different models to reduce the spread of infection. One example I heard about was when a primary school student with mild cold symptoms, who would normally have gone to school, was able to attend the classes via webcam. There was no extra work for the teacher, who had otherwise had to spend special time keeping in touch with the home and sending home instructions and assignments to the student. In this way the student also missed nothing in the classroom and could even be involved in group work during the days of symptoms. After a few days, however, it was discovered that this was in fact contrary to the legislation in force, but also to the temporary regulation and the proposed future law following this bill. Madam President, I would like The bill provides increased opportunities to use remote and distance learning. That is something we welcome Christian Democrats. This helps, for example, that pupils in sparsely populated areas can be taught by a qualified teacher without having to commute long distances. Pupils with Sami as their native language will have better opportunities to have their right to native language education satisfied. We Christian Democrats want this change to apply also to the other national minority languages, which, strangely enough, seems to have been overlooked in the bill. Overall, we believe that the regulatory framework should allow greater flexibility by, for example, combining different forms of teaching. At the same time, spring has also given many teachers and others insight into both the advantages and the disadvantages of being exposed without regulation to the expectation of meeting requests for remote and distance learning in parallel with class teaching. We have a great understanding of the concerns that teachers may have that remote and distance learning should add to the burden of teachers' already strained work situation. It is therefore important to point out that our proposal for greater flexibility does not apply to freely selected work but concerns pupils who have been granted, for physical, mental or other reasons, to take part, where appropriate, in remote or distance learning from home or elsewhere. In doing so, Madam President, I support the Christian Democrats' reservation 6. Of course, I support all our other requests.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-490	Madam President, I would like I'm from Norrbotten, my dialect to spite. There it is cold and crisp when it is winter, but now in the summer it is full of mosquitoes and light 24 hours a day. There is also sparse between the houses in Norrbotten. In preparation for today's debate, I have with the help of the Teachers' Association's statistical tools Lärarkollen checked what it looks like with the proportion of full-time positions staffed with qualified teachers in Norrbotten's 14 municipalities. I note two things, Madam President: firstly, that the proportion of qualified teachers varies widely between municipalities and secondly, that there seems to be a correlation between the proportion of qualified teachers and the density of the houses in these municipalities. The six Norrbotten municipalities with the lowest proportion of qualified teachers in comprehensive school also have a population density of between 0 and 1 inhabitants per square kilometre. The teacher shortage is serious, and the Swedish National Agency for Education's latest forecast of the teacher shortage shows that it is here to stay for a very long time unless we do everything we can to counteract it. The report of the Committee on Education and Training 23 deals with the proposal on distance and remote learning. The reform proposed in it is not a major change of system that alone will solve the teacher shortage, but it can be an important part of the solution. The proposal makes it possible for school leaders to use remote teaching when qualified teachers are not available. It is of course intended to better satisfy all pupils' right to be taught by qualified and qualified staff. This is important in all of Skolsverige but perhaps most acute in municipalities where there is sparse between houses. Perhaps one or other village school in Västerbotten's hinterland that would otherwise not have been able to remain need not be phased out when this reform is in place. Perhaps one or other student in Dalarna's sparsely populated areas who would otherwise have had a very long way to learn on certain subjects then do not at all have to make that trip – or at least not as often. I attended a round table discussion a few weeks ago, attended by people from all parts of the Swedish School. Different places and different professional categories at school were represented. The school counselor who participated testified that distance learning during the spring has led to increased attendance of certain groups of pupils in upper secondary school. These are the students that we usually refer to as home sitters, i.e. students with problematic school absences. This target group should in future be able to offer distance learning as special support. Distance learning should also be able to be the solution to some other situations that make it difficult to arrange reasonable training if it is limited to local education only. For example, when an elite sport career or career that necessarily involves a lot of travel needs to be combined with upper secondary education, distance learning can be a solution. Madam President, I would like The main rule should still be that the meeting between the teacher and the student takes place physically, in the bill called local education. The school's mission is to socialise, develop cooperation skills and lay the foundation for active participation in a society based on democratic values. Of course, these elements are best developed in the physical encounter with others, both teachers and students. Nothing can fully replace being in an environment that stimulates learning and development. Madam President, I would like The teacher shortage is one of the top-two problems of the Swedish school. The second is inequality and segregation. The lack of teachers is compounded by the fact that the school has become a market with basically free establishment rights, segregated selection systems and unregulated profit withdrawals from the money that taxpayers have contributed to fund children's schooling. The consequences of market entry show their ugly face on the area by area. Profit-driven free schools have lower qualification, lower teacher density, lower salaries and higher grade inflation than municipal schools. However, we also receive regular reports of other problems, such as bankruptcies that cause students without education, marketing scandals and state grant fiche. I recall a great revelation of Janne Josefsson and Mission review in 2013. They applied for space for two fictitious students and brought a hidden camera to a number of different free schools. The fictitious student described as a high - performance girl received positive news, but the fictitious student who had difficulties at school or was messy did not fit in the same schools at the same time. The revelation was that free schools then, in 2013, sorted out difficult students. In connection with the report, the free schools announced that there was reason to have a discussion about ethics in the industry. Last week Aftonbladet published an article showing that not much has happened. In the article, a couple of principals testify that it is common for schools that students have applied to call the students' current schools and take reference before the admission is completed. It is therefore a question of primary school pupils who need good references to fit in certain schools. It is, of course, egelign and totally unacceptable – but it is an effect of the market system. Opening up distance and distance learning should not lead to the negative consequences of the market system being made more difficult and deepened. It is therefore important that the legislative proposals we are now debating do not involve major changes in the system, although there are clearly parties in this House who want them to be. It is not the intention that all pupils should be able to choose distance learning, and remote learning should not be used to reduce the costs of the principals. Instead, the legislative proposals are smaller, but important, pieces of the puzzle to solve some specific problems. It is therefore so important that there are a number of boundaries and requirements built into the reform. For example, the government is authorized to issue guidelines on how much of a student's or a school's teaching may take place as remote teaching and how large the student groups may be. It shall be the school head who decides on remote education, at the most for one school year at a time, and the decision shall be notified to the School Inspectorate. Long-distance education may only be used to solve skills supply problems after the principal has made repeated efforts to get a qualified teacher on the premises of the school unit in question or if the pupil base is so small that close-up teaching presents significant organisational or financial difficulties to the principal. It shall be permitted for principals to subcontract remote teaching, but the performer shall be head of the school. As a general rule, distance learning will only be used as special support for pupils who have documented medical, mental or social difficulties. In primary schools and similar forms of school, it is proposed to be a kind of last resort, i.e. that all other support measures should be tested or judged as hopeless before distance learning becomes an issue. In addition, special reasons are needed at primary school level. A decision on distance learning may be valid for a maximum of one semester at a time. In upper secondary school, the rules are slightly less rigid, and distance learning may also be considered for a full upper secondary school education in some cases. Distance education can also be outsourced, but only to school authorities who have received permission from the Swedish School Inspectorate to provide distance education. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, let me say that the legislative changes we are debating today solve a number of specific problems at school. Remote education can be part of alleviating the effects of the lack of teachers. Perhaps it is especially important in places like my own country. It is a question of satisfying pupils' right to education with qualified teachers. Distance learning can be important in providing teaching to some students who might otherwise be completely without education. It is a question of making problematic absenteeism a little less problematic with a little more flexible support. The legislative proposals are surrounded by a number of restrictions and requirements that make local education the main rule in the future, since there is nothing to beat the meeting between teachers and pupils. With this, I would like to support the proposal of the Committee on Education and Training in its report 23. I'm sorry I've gone over the speaking time, but I've gone 100 miles for this debate... so I think I was worth that time.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-509	Madam President, I would like If a chamber debate this particular spring were to take place remotely, it would well be the debate on remote and distance learning. I, too, have taken myself to Parliament for the first time in several months for this very debate. The biggest sacrifice has been made by students in upper secondary school, adult education and college this spring. In a short time they have switched to remote and distance learning, with emphasis on, in particular, remote learning. The teachers have also made a great change. The picture I have met from this transition is that it has generally worked surprisingly well, but it has not worked for all students. Students' needs, subjects or other conditions have played a role. During the coronapendem there have been a number of good initiatives where I would like to take the opportunity to highlight the initiative that the research institute Rise together with the Education Radio, the Swedish National Agency for Education and Education has started, namely the website skolhemma.se. It provides working methods for teachers and principals as well as support for guardians and principals. The research compilation and working methods that have emerged in this work provide a good basis for future work when it comes to developing remote and distance learning in Sweden. This special spring will also require a special examination and evaluation of what has happened and what lessons we can learn. What has worked well, and what could have worked even better when it comes to remote and distance learning? In which steps does it fit well, and in which steps does it fit less well? The lessons of this spring on the subject we are debating today are many. Madam President, I would like The proposal we are discussing today is a good first step to enable remote and distance learning in more subjects and to create a clear framework. The proposals provide for increased opportunities for remote learning compared to today. The increased opportunities for remote teaching are not least assessed as having positive effects for rural and sparsely populated areas in Sweden when it comes to being able to offer high quality teaching with qualified teachers throughout the country. The school is usually the hub of rural and sparsely populated areas, but the lack of teachers in general and qualified teachers in particular is unfortunately a major problem. Strengthening the quality and equivalence of Swedish schools is a priority for the Center Party. Through remote learning, skills can be shared across the country so that teachers can distribute their services to several schools without having to travel between the different schools on a daily basis. It saves time, and it gives more access to the very best teachers. The proposal is also a natural step based on the research activities carried out and the work that needs to be done to develop the school in Sweden and to be able to contribute to more students being met by qualified and experienced teachers and to improve quality. But remote education is not only a necessary part of Sweden's rural and rural schools, but it is also an important factor for new arrivals to have access to mother tongue teachers and study supervisors, for example for schools in vulnerable areas in the big cities. Through remote education, skilled and competent teachers can meet pupils in rural areas as well as in the larger cities. Madam President, I would like The proposal also deals with distance learning. Earlier in the debate, we have been explained to us the difference between distance learning and distance learning. Distance learning should be allowed and used for pupils who are unable to participate in local education due to documented medical, psychological or social problems and in upper secondary and upper secondary schools even for pupils who are unable to participate for other reasons. For example, it can be about elite athletes and sports women or students who are in other countries. The report also contains opportunities and improvements in terms of creating the conditions for outsourcing education and training, which is an important prerequisite for getting principals to help each other and contribute to strengthening Swedish schools. Madam President, I would like We now need to analyse in depth and learn lessons from the spring that has been when it comes to the transition to remote and distance education, which has taken place particularly in upper secondary schools around the country. I look forward to reading research reports and evaluations in order to learn and see what we need to do in the future. However, the bill that is currently on Parliament's table is an important step in enabling more subjects in remote teaching and creating clear regulations, which is a good thing. I therefore support the proposal.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-523	Madam President, I would like On behalf of the Liberals, I support the motion and reject all motions for resolutions tabled. We do not think that the experiment of distance and remote learning should be broadened beyond what has been announced. The experiment will be extended for a year, but in the proposed legislative amendments certain parties in the committee want to expand the possibility of more subjects and more forms and that the decisions will apply over several years. We in the Liberals are not behind this. There must continue to be pressure for change on the principals. One of the reasons why the Liberals agreed at all to the Government's proposal to go to Parliament with this product was precisely that they should retain incentives so that principals, municipalities and free schools should not refrain from seeking, recruiting and attracting trained, qualified teachers to Swedish schools. As some have mentioned, we have educational segregation and a great shortage of teachers, and unfortunately the number of unauthorized teachers is increasing throughout the country – particularly in socio-economically tough areas, where schools are already experiencing major problems and where many pupils who have special needs and would need trained, qualified teachers do not have it. And then we should not talk about the situation in the country in terms of rural and sparsely populated areas. There is the alternative, as it also says in the bill, that you do not receive that teaching. I do not recognise the criticism that, for example, the Swedish Democrats raise – that we would lower the requirements by going forward with this proposal. There is nowhere in this document or this proposal that any unauthorised person should sit in a classroom and teach the students, without the whole purpose of the bill is to increase students' access to educated, qualified teachers in, for example, mathematics or Swedish. I can guarantee Robert Stenkvist that this product would never have reached Helgeandsholmen and the Swedish Parliament if it had been suggested that we now lower the requirements, and now virtually anyone should be able to stand in a classroom and teach the students. It is a supervisor who should take care of the students in the classroom where they are, but you call up or use the technology and the technical possibilities to access the skills that these students need. I think this is good. It's supposed to be tough rules. It is very clear that this is not a general rule but an exception and that it should be done to a limited extent. The main message is still close teaching, contact with the teacher and teacher-led teaching. And when you decide on this effort, there should be one academic year at a time. This is in order for students not to have remote education for several years but also to have constant pressure on the principals to hire qualified teachers. We will keep an eye on that product. We will not help to lower the requirements so that students do not have access to trained, qualified teachers, because that is the most important thing in order to increase the quality and results of Swedish schools.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-531	Madam President, I would like The past few months have been very different in many ways. This applies not least to school. Sweden's teachers and pupils have undergone an extensive rapid course in digital teaching, both remote and distance learning. I really want to say that it is fantastic efforts that have been made by the staff in Swedish schools who have taken on the challenges and passed a semester that probably does not remind us of anything else in school history. We've all learned a lot. We have learned how to effectively overcome obstacles and have improved in remote and distance learning. But we have also been reminded of the importance of the school in addition to teaching. It is about the importance as a social safety net for the most vulnerable children in our society. It is about the importance of school food and access to student health staff. But it is also about how important local education, i.e. physical education in the classroom, is, in fact, and especially for those children who already have tough conditions. We are concerned that the specific support may not have worked as it would have been needed in the digital environment. At the same time, we see cautious but still some positive signals from some student groups who have now had a much greater school attendance when they have been able to take part in the teaching from the home environment rather than at school. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Education and Training on distance learning, distance learning and certain issues of construction. It is a proposal that the Green Party and the Social Democrats prepared in the government long before we had a pandemic. The aim of the proposal is to make better use of the opportunities of digitalisation for teaching when, for various reasons, local education is not possible. For example, long-term education may be necessary if there is no teacher within the principal's school unit who meets the school law's requirements for identification and eligibility and the principal, despite repeated efforts, has not been able to hire such a teacher, or if the pupil base of a certain school unit is so limited that close teaching within the school unit leads to significant organisational or financial difficulties for the principal, i.e. when there are far too few pupils in the neighborhood. We believe that these proposals can be of great importance especially in Sweden's rural areas and in sparsely populated areas where it is difficult today to recruit qualified teachers on certain subjects. Several Members have touched on this earlier in the debate. At the same time, it is important that we do not settle for a situation where there is a great shortage of teachers. The work of recruiting more teachers continues intensively. The Green Party has been working with the attractiveness of the teaching profession for a long time and has introduced, for example, the teacher's salary boost. We have also reduced the workload of teachers in various ways, including through fewer mandatory national tests. Madam President, I would like In the case of distance learning, we suggest that these should be used for a student who cannot take part in local education due to a documented medical, mental or social problem. In upper secondary school and upper secondary school, these should also be allowed to be used for pupils who, for other special reasons, cannot participate in local education. It can be about students who are involved in elite sports or have a professional career that involves a lot of travelling and therefore cannot be very present. It can also be about students living abroad with their parents or guardians. In such cases, decisions need to be taken on a case-by-case basis, if applicable. The Green Party believes that it is important that we take seriously the knowledge of the effects of remote and distance learning that has been carried out during this period with the coronapandemine. When we evaluate the experiences we have gained from what has happened in the spring, it can lead to students who can succeed better with distance learning also being able to get more access to them in the future. Finally, the School Contracts Act chapter has also been revised. It is proposed in the proposal that remote and distance learning can be subcontracted within certain frameworks. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-542	Madam President, I would like It is nice to be able to discuss education issues in general and not least remote education in particular. Corona has hit the world hard, Sweden's population and Swedish school. Teachers, principals and other school staff make heroic contributions every day, not least those who have had to switch to remote education at short notice. But there are also positive things that happen in crises. This includes the work that the school has received a boost on the work on different digital solutions. We must be able to take this on board, so that positive things can actually happen even in the midst of a crisis. We Moderates are concerned about the proposal that has come in the field of distance and distance learning. This means a step backwards in terms of the ability to teach distance and distance learning compared to today. This is written by Per-Per-Arne Andersson, Head of Education at the Swedish Municipalities and Regions and Ulla Hamilton, Free Schools Association. The Government's proposal limits the possibilities for long-distance education. This should only be done if no qualified teacher is available despite repeated attempts to recruit. It should only be done in theoretical subjects, and permission should be given for only one year at a time and with limitations in the size of student groups. That is the future that the government provides for remote education. You hear yourself: limit and complicate as much as possible. In view of the fact that it is a question of buying in equipment to be able to teach remotely and that there is uncertainty as a result of obtaining a permit for just one year at a time, this becomes a further problem. Several principals and teachers testify that spring's distance education has been successful, especially for students who have had large school absences in the past. In some cases, the presence of distance learning has reached 100%. That is indeed something that we politicians should affirm and not prevent, as the government wants. We believe in the possibilities of digitalisation, and we want to open up the development potential of remote and distance learning, but also other digital solutions. We want remote and distance learning to be possible in all subjects and not only in the theoretical. We do not want to limit the size of the student groups, and we would rather have long-term decisions especially in view of the equipment required to carry out this type of teaching. The school inspectorate can follow that the teaching takes place with the best quality. In many debates in this House, we have talked about having confidence in the profession, showing that we trust that principals and teachers in our schools actually know what is best for the students. This proposal and these proposals in the field of remote learning are indeed going in the opposite direction. Here, the Riksdag unfortunately sends clear signals to the profession that it does not trust them and does not believe that they are qualified enough to assess when remote and distance learning can mean that the school will be better and that the results will be better for the students in the activities. I find it sad that we do not take advantage of the opportunities and that we do not trust those who work out at our schools and that they can see the opportunities and take advantage of them in a way that benefits their students. We see the school's knowledge mission as the most important goal. Therefore, we want remote teaching to be used for different types of teaching and to a greater extent than proposed by the bill. Let something good come of this crisis! See the possibilities, and do not limit the possibilities of using this tool! Madam President, I would like We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but in order to gain time at voting time, I only ask for reservation No 1.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-555	Madam President, I would like In large parts Maria Stockhaus and I share the entrance that it should be possible to teach remotely to solve certain problems. It should also be possible to use remote learning to solve certain other problems. However, it seems that we differ when it comes to how we view the inter-human meeting. To some extent, this must mean that we differ in our view of the role and mission of the school. What is the school's education mission – what is about socialization and values – is best done in the meeting between the teacher and the student. School time could be likened to a trip. We want the trip to be an adventure trip and not a charter trip. Every adventure trip requires having a guide, and that guide is the teacher. In order for a student to follow the teacher, or guide, on the sneaky journey that life can be when you are a young adult – which in many of these cases is about, at least when it comes to distance learning – trust is required in the relationship. The relationship between the traveller and the guide requires that the traveller trusts the guide, and the same applies between the student and the teacher. Trust and relationships are best created when we meet face to face. Does Maria Stockhaus not agree with this? Is there not a value in the interpersonal meeting that makes it worthwhile to retain local education as the main rule in both primary and secondary school?
i-5710f0140e75dd18-559	Madam President, I would like Linus Sköld makes it sound like the Moderates want to work for a school where distance and remote education take over all teaching, but it is not at all a matter of that. This is a solution that may need to be used in many different situations and in many different subjects. What we are looking for is for us to show trust in those who work in school – to principals and teachers. When they see that teaching would be better and that more students would be able to achieve the goals by using digital tools, we in this House should not limit their ability to use them. I also see a major problem in the question of trust in the profession when we say that we expect all the equipment to be bought in to carry out this activity while only obtaining permission one year at a time. There is a lot of braces and belting in this legislation, and it is a clear signal that we do not trust them out there in schools or that they are able to assess when and to what extent it is reasonable to have this type of teaching. We fully agree on the basic mission and on the importance of social association and physical encounters. What we are opposed to is the total lack of trust in the profession at school – in this context – as well as limiting and making as much more difficult as possible rather than opening up opportunities. Nevertheless, thanks to the previous alliance government, we have in the School Inspectorate a control body which is able to take action if the school does not live up to the broad mission it actually has. I find the limitations that exist sad. When Linus Sköld speaks of trust, it becomes almost parody given the total lack of trust in the profession in school that this bill breathes.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-564	Madam President, I would like It is not a lack of trust in the profession, but a lack of trust in a dysfunctional market system, I would say. The proposals put forward by the Moderates in response to this proposal would open up a completely free market where distance learning could be offered as an alternative to local learning for all pupils. It shall be optional for all pupils to take part in distance learning rather than close learning. After all, we understand what this would do with the costs of the free school companies – they would fall directly, and there would be a new opportunity to make a profit on school children. This is really the main purpose of the Moderates here. It is the same when it comes to Moderates turning against the possibility of limiting the size of student groups in remote education. The Moderates do not want such a limitation, for if you can have classes of 100 students in remote education you can earn a lot of money from that teaching. It does not surprise me that the Moderates are against this, but I think it would be a bad system. Doesn't Maria Stockhaus also think it would be a bad system?
i-5710f0140e75dd18-568	Madam President, I would like From moderate quarters, we also have confidence in the free schools, that the staff and the principals who work there can live up to the governance documents that we decide on from here and that they put the students' interests first and steer towards ensuring that more students reach the goals. This is an ideological issue. Do we believe that independent schools can deliver quality and are actually interested in students learning something, or do we think the only thing they are interested in is making money? I have faith that they have a focus on the students' knowledge results. There are many municipal principals – here nearby are a number – who completely ignore the progress of the students. There are schools that year after year get to go with poor results without the municipality taking any action. Botkyrka, where Linus Sköld's party colleagues have ruled for a very long time, is a shining example. The municipal principal there shows a total lack of interest in the progress of the students; they are allowed to fail year in and year out without taking any action. I would like to see it as important that we trust the profession to be able to judge when this is reasonable to use and when it is not. The steering documents are valid. The school inspectorate is on site. I wish that tougher measures could be taken against municipal authorities who are not doing well, which I think has been a bit wimpy with. Whether it's a municipal or an independent principal, there must be confidence that the principal is looking after the students' best interests. There are brilliant examples of free schools and municipal principals, as well as terrible municipal principals and terrible independent principals. The question of quality has nothing to do with the headship.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-573	Madam President, I would like I support the reservation on this matter. This is a little more my own speech. The former was by a party partner, and that's why I didn't press the replica button when I was apostrophated. I am not in favour of competition in all possible and impossible situations. I think, for example, that it is insane for different companies to compete to maintain different sections of our network. It has proved to be an extreme liberalism that does not work in practice. But healthy competition between higher education institutions for different education programmes is probably something that essentially serves a good purpose. Now there is a good suggestion on the table. What's wrong with different higher education institutions presenting their results on different educations in a common portal of some kind where all prospective students can easily compare different educations? We can discuss which parameters should be included in this portal and which parameters are relevant, but the idea itself I really cannot understand that any sensible person opposes. This portal would primarily be for prospective students, but not only. For example, I would also study it with quite a lot of interest, and I hope that more people in here would do so. A result of such a clear and user-friendly portal would probably be that we would discover that some higher education institutions are better at some programmes and that others are better at completely different programmes. Is there anyone in here who didn't already know or understand this? It's so sad in that case. We politicians should relate in the best of worlds to reality, not to tramsideologies. Information, relevant and illustrated, helps students to choose the right education. I ask myself how much students' mischoice costs the individual and society. Probably we cannot eliminate all the wrong choices; it has to do with human nature. But we can help to reduce these mischoices without political prestige. Then it would be very won. We ourselves intend to set an example and support a centre proposal here. I am convinced that increased competition helps universities to sharpen their programmes. The higher education institutions that underperform are forced to work to strengthen quality and improve throughput. The proposal may also mean that some higher education institution may end up with an education. But it would certainly be an education that would in any case be discontinued at a later stage, and that any other university could take over and do even better – no disaster, thus. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say a few brief words about the rest of the letter when I am standing here in the speaker's chair. Overall, the Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that there is no alarming situation regarding resource efficiency at Swedish universities. We are not the highest, but we are not at the bottom either. In addition, efficiency is a difficult and multifaceted concept in this context. Take this with citations in research publications. One nation may, I imagine, be at the top, but yet another nation that is lower can come with the decisive inventions and innovations. I think that efficiency should also be examined with common sense as a tool. However, the Swedish National Audit Office highlights a weak point at some higher education institutions, that it is too high a staff turnover. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that this is the factor that has a certain impact on resource efficiency. It is therefore important that the government and other actors, such as the Swedish National Agency for Higher Education, investigate this. It can also be assumed that there are shortcomings in the working environment at these universities. It doesn't even have to be an entire university that suffers from staff turnover. It may be an individual faculty that is affected by this. Unless, for reasons of resource efficiency, too much staff turnover should be taken seriously for health and safety reasons.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-585	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the government's letter to the Riksdag regarding the Swedish National Audit Office's report on resource efficiency and productivity at Swedish universities in Nordic comparison. The review draws overall conclusions based on having studied Swedish universities and notes that these stand relatively well in terms of resource efficiency and productivity. At the same time, it points out that there is some potential for improvement for some higher education institutions. The previous speaker pointed out the link between staff turnover and efficiency rates and that high staff turnover leads to lower efficiency. Previous reviews of the Swedish National Audit Office in this area have shown similar negative correlations with distance studies and efficiency figures, but this is not reflected in this review. This can have several reasons, such as a shift towards more programme studies, improved technology and changed ways of working, i.e. that higher education institutions develop and learn. The report also highlights the possibility of improving throughput and thereby reducing drop-outs and improving students' educational performance. It points out, among other things, that systematic quality work can be improved at higher education institutions and the importance of monitoring the effects of the measures implemented. Madam President, I would like Students spend an average of three to five years on university studies. They hopefully leave the university with a degree but also with large student debts. They have made one of the greatest investments ever in life. What affects the choices of higher education is, among other things, family background. What we can see in higher education is that lack of information and guidance makes prospective students dependent on wise advice from family and friends, which is visible in the choice of education and higher education institutions. Students from unpaved homes are over-represented when it comes to drop-outs. Error selection is an important reason for defection, and error choices also cost society a lot and lead to a less efficient system. Better and more information gives students the opportunity to choose right from the beginning. This creates a competitive situation when it comes to recruiting students, which means that the education needs to be developed to attract students. This helps to both strengthen quality and increase and improve throughput. Four years ago, a unanimous parliament addressed an announcement to the government to review how the quality of education can be compared between different higher education institutions. However, very little has happened on the part of the government in terms of strengthening and developing information for prospective students. In the letter that we are now debating, the government writes that the issue of throughput is urgent and that by providing future students with clearer information about the content and labour market prospects of different educations, students can be better able to pass their studies. There are already a lot of forecasts, statistics and evaluations from the University Chancellor's Office and the Swedish Council for Higher Education. Just as the government makes it clear in its response, we think it is important to move from words to actions and ensure that the information currently available is collected effectively and effectively so that it is easily accessible to prospective students who are going to choose their education and career choices. Our Nordic neighbours are forerunners in this regard. Both Denmark and Norway have well-developed systems to provide future university students with better information for one of the biggest investments they can make. Denmark has introduced a system focusing on, among other things, previous students' salary and labour market establishment and whether the education has been relevant to the job it has received. In Norway, there is a strong focus on previous students' experience of the quality of education and whether they believe it has contributed to strengthening their labour market conditions. The Center Party believes it is important that students receive good and relevant information. We are therefore pleased that several parties have chosen to support our reservation. If all these Members vote in favour of it tomorrow, it will be supported by a majority, and the government will have to work more intensively to ensure that future students receive better information.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-598	Madam President, I would like I'm a little rusty because I haven't been here in a few months. Normally I debate primary school issues, so this is new ground for me. But it is exciting, and there is much to take into account in the Swedish National Audit Office's review. The Nordic National Audit Authorities have reviewed the resource efficiency and productivity of the Nordic universities between 2011 and 2016. The review has taken place at 68 of the 160 Nordic universities, and 27 Swedish universities participated. They wanted answers on whether resource use is effective at Swedish universities compared to other Nordic universities and how possible differences in efficiency can be explained. The result shows that Swedish universities are doing well in comparison with other Nordic universities. The average improvement potential for the period under review is 7%. During the period under investigation, efficiency has increased by around 1% per year. A variety of factors have been looked at to see why some higher education institutions perform less than others, but the only factor associated with the efficiency rates is staff turnover, as also highlighted by the Centre Party representatives. High staff turnover can contribute to lower efficiency. The flow has also been examined on a freestanding course in English and at the Master's Programme in Mechanical Engineering. The result shows that it is lower in the English course and that there are large variations between universities. Follow-up may be improved; measures to increase throughput are not always followed up. The review also shows that the throughput is influenced by factors that the universities themselves do not control, such as the allocation of resources to the humanities, declining student backgrounds and biased gender distribution. The Swedish National Audit Office does not make any recommendations to the Government in connection with the review. The Government welcomes the review and believes that higher education institutions are working hard to develop the quality and efficiency of their operations. All universities already have a mission to work with and develop the quality and efficiency of their operations, and this is important and necessary. The government also believes that it is difficult to measure efficiency based on a statistical model and that more puzzle pieces are needed. Every year, the University Chancellor's Office publishes reports based on the Authority's responsibility for monitoring the effectiveness of higher education institutions. These statistics provide very good opportunities to follow developments and also make comparisons between universities, subject areas and forms of education. As mentioned by Fredrik Christensson from the Center Party, there is also a follow-up motion from the Center Party that believes that the government should commission the higher education authorities to collect and make available information about previous students' salary and labour market establishment as well as about the quality of education. It is believed that this would lead to higher quality, wider recruitment and better throughput. There are a great many sensible proposals, but since the government has told us in letter 75 that work is going on towards what is being asked, it is estimated that there is no need to do anything further today. That's why the motion is rejected. With this, Madam President, I propose that the report be added to the file. I want to wish everyone in here a happy midsummer and a happy summer!
i-5710f0140e75dd18-610	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the resource efficiency of higher education institutions in a Nordic perspective, and we can conclude that the Swedish university is doing well. The Swedish National Audit Office is directing calls to the universities but not to the government. The committee's proposal is therefore that the examination be added to the file. The Swedish National Audit Office notes, as several have mentioned, that staff turnover one is higher at the universities with improvement potential. High staff turnover can be linked to the precarious employment conditions in the higher education system. In other contexts, the Left Party has made several proposals to increase job security in academia. The Swedish National Audit Office has also carried out a special review of the flow of basic courses in English and the Master of Science programme. In the special review there are some concerns that I would like to highlight in particular. These are problems that are not HEI-specific but general. For example, when it comes to the basic English course, almost all universities describe that it is a major problem that the state compensation for full year students and full year achievements in the humanities has been eroded and that the compensation is not adapted to the actual costs linked to the content of the education. These are old figures, and it is therefore time to review how we allocate funds to our higher education institutions and how we value education. The review report points out that the Master of Science Programme in Mechanical Engineering has some challenges that differ from the basic English course. The school seats lift up the biased gender distribution that adversely affects throughput, as women generally have higher throughput than men. When I stand here in the speaker's chair and when we debate and discuss university issues, I constantly return to the gender perspective. With regard to the Master of Science programme, there are at least two problems. One is that women are under-represented and the other that men generally have a lower throughput. There are two problems that need to be corrected. On the one hand, we must break the gender-related choices of education and, on the other hand, we must smooth out the throughput, although the lower throughput of men may be due to the fact that they are more offered employment than women before they are finished with education, especially in the field of engineering and other areas that are very hot in the labour market. Equal education is very much a quality issue, and I will continue to talk about gender equality in future debates and discussions. I will do so until we have an equal academy and also economics. With regard to the exercise request for assignments to the higher education authorities to collect and make available information on the quality of education, I agree that this needs to be done. However, I also note that we can postpone this proposal because this year the government intends to return to Parliament on how the quality of education and training can be better compared between different universities and higher education institutions. So this is an issue that will come back, and if we are not satisfied with the government's proposals, we can put forward others. However, the parts of the exercise relating to previous students' salary and the establishment of the labour market seem to me to be a little more hesitant. This applies both to how such data can be collected and whether it is really relevant to the flow of education. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-621	Madam President, I would like There will easily be some repetitions this late in the day and late into the debate. I guess it has not escaped anyone in here that we are debating the Education Committee's report on Riksrevisionen's review report Resource efficiency and productivity at Sweden's higher education institutions in Nordic comparison. I also believe, Madam President, that everyone has understood that Swedish universities stand well in Nordic comparison but that two recommendations are made. Firstly, universities and higher education institutions which, according to the audit, have a high potential for improvement should identify factors affecting efficiency and productivity and then take appropriate action. Secondly, universities and higher education institutions should systematically monitor the flow of information and the impact of the measures taken to increase the flow of information. The question on which the review has been based is whether the use of resources is effective at Swedish universities in comparison with Nordic universities and what can explain possible differences in efficiency. They have also looked at the work of higher education institutions with throughput. Madam President, I would like I would like to stay for one minute at the Liberals' education policy as a whole. We often talk about quality in teaching, and we see a need to further strengthen the quality of the entire education chain, from youth school to college and within research. Higher education or courses that do not pass the quality standards cannot continue. Is resource efficiency and productivity synonymous with quality in teaching? No, not per se. Could it be puzzle pieces in a larger quality discussion? Absolutely. I also understand that the Swedish National Audit Office has the credit for this very argumentation. Madam President, I would like We also want to pay attention to the fact that the Swedish National Audit Office states in the letter that Swedish higher education institutions are doing well in Nordic comparisons, but that it is also noted that in comparison with the Danish higher education institutions the Swedish are on average slightly less effective. Productivity development is also higher in Denmark and Finland than in Sweden. Why is this? Some responses are given in the report, but it is far from comprehensive. In this discussion, I would like to look at and include the forthcoming research bill, because it can be said that Sweden was at its highest in Europe for a long time in terms of government research grants. Now Switzerland and Denmark have gone over. Notable is that both countries, with which we have every reason to compare ourselves, have successfully combined the expansion s ion with high quality. The Swedish National Audit Office's study also shows that the situation at different universities is different in terms of the potential for improvement. We often talk about equivalence when it comes to youth school, but I think equivalence is just as important higher up the educational ladder. As regards the sub-study on the flow through, the Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that the flow of the examined independent course English at a distance was weak. It is difficult to know the extent of this, but what we already know is that the risk of lower throughput is evident in distance training. There should also be a follow-up to the development of distance training that is currently under way and specifically as regards throughput. Madam President, I would like The liberals stress the importance of Swedish universities continuing to work for a high quality in education and with an efficient use of resources. We share the committee's position on the challenges that exist, and the Liberals will follow the ongoing work on issues of productivity, efficiency and throughput, but we refer to our specific opinion for the time being.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-633	Madam President, I would like We allocate large resources to higher education and research in Sweden. That's what we're gonna do. Our research and education are of high quality. The fact that our universities also use the money in a resource efficient way is of course important. I therefore welcome, and the Environmental Party, this review from the Swedish National Audit Office on Resource Efficiency and Productivity at Sweden's higher education institutions in Nordic comparison. Of course, we also welcome the government's response, which I think is balanced and good. The report states that Swedish universities stand up well in Nordic competition. We have heard this a few times in the debate, and it is gratifying. Some of the Swedish universities are very well located. But then there are also some where there is potential for improvement, as expressed in the report. As also stated in the report, the results should probably not be drawn too far. It does not make sense to see the report as a ranking list of higher education institutions. This evaluation carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office is one of many reports and evaluations that complement each other. Measuring efficiency is complex, and different universities have different prerequisites, but also different assignments, and this of course affects the outcome. Views may also be made on the method and baseline values used in this particular study. There are few activities that are evaluated as intensively and as much as the activities of universities and higher education institutions. Basically every teaching hour, every seminar, every effort a student makes, or by all means every research report, interim report or research effort, is evaluated, discussed and graded in the case it is to be done. And it's important! The collegial discussion, the review of research, the evaluation of teaching and the efforts of researchers and students, are crucial for academic activities. They are part of the core of the business. This report by the Swedish National Audit Office is not part of the academic self-review, but it is nevertheless important and it should be read by the universities – and by the government, of course, even if the auditors do not make any specific recommendations to the government. The review does not include the collaboration of higher education institutions with the surrounding society or quality in the business. On the other hand, a special study is carried out on the flow of education. It is not a complete study, it is more of a complementary and in-depth study to the previous sub-study in the report, i.e. the Nordic comparison of resource efficiency. The pass-through study only covers two subjects – English and mechanical engineering – but it nevertheless shows large differences between how higher education institutions work to increase the pass-through. Passthrough means that the students are ready, and that they are ready on time with their courses and programmes. It's an important parameter. It is important for resource efficiency, for higher education institutions, for the national economy as a whole and, of course, for the students themselves so that they can move on in their studies and move on to working life. With regard to the comparative sub-study on productivity and resource efficiency, the review report concludes that the only variable that shows a correlation with the efficiency rates is staff turnover. Lessonsatten with high staff turnover shows less efficiency. The reason for this is being discussed. For example, it may be the costs that come with the recruitment and introduction of new employees. Of course, other reasons can be envisaged, such as job insecurity reducing productivity. But it is not being investigated and discussed in this report. I think you can move on with that discussion. Quality is not measured, and it is not certain that increased quality means increased resource efficiency or productivity. For example, investments in premises and technical equipment would lead to higher costs and thus lower resource efficiency, according to that model, unless they affect or increase productivity. Nevertheless, renovation of premises and technology would have to be carried out in order to improve the quality of education and training. There are a lot of other things that would have to be done. For example, teachers' employment conditions must be improved. Students' psychosocial environment and sick leave need to be reviewed. The mental ill health of students is worryingly high. We would also need to work more with the universities' relation to the surrounding society. For example, cooperation not only with the business community but also with the public sector, civil society and associations needs to be strengthened. This also applies, for example, to the work of higher education institutions in taking responsibility for climate work, with climate change change and adaptation. Madam President, I would like None of the things I listed at the end are included in the Swedish National Audit Office's review. But that's not the point either. The review should be seen, as is also mentioned, as part of a network of investigations, reviews and reports that will lead to knowledge and recommendations for how we get, and how we retain, a strong education system in Sweden, with internationally leading research and education. I support the proposal in the report.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-647	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I have written that we are here today to debate, but I realise that we are here this evening to debate this very important issue which is dealt with in the civil committee's report CU22 Larger complementary buildings. To the attentive one, this may not sound completely unfamiliar. It is not too long ago that we were in this House debating larger supplementary housing. Today, the debate concerns larger complementary buildings. Since we had the debate, the Committee on Civil Liberties has worked out a legislative referral. We have sent that referral to the Law Council, and now the committee is presenting a report with proposals for amendments to the legislation on complementary buildings on the table of Parliament. One can say that it is a complement to the complementary building in Sweden. The purpose of the previous amendment, to go from 25 to 30 square metres for building permits-free supplementary housing, was to seek to create more housing in Sweden. That is also why the government put forward that proposal. It was simply a question of increasing the supply of housing. This is not alone a solution to the challenge that exists in the housing market today, but the additional 5 square metres we added help to create better housing by those built as complementary housing. The purpose of now also expanding complementary buildings from 25 to 30 square metres is to make the regulations clear, simple and more uniform. The fact that the Law Council gave a blank opinion without recalling anything caused me and the Green Party to choose to support the proposal to extend the area also for complementary buildings. I am very pleased that we are a united committee that chooses to go forward with this legislative matter, because when we legislate in Parliament, I think it is good that we are in agreement. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the most important thing for me is that we should build more housing, and that is exactly what the government proposed a few months ago. Building complement housing of 30 square metres is also a way to make better use of existing villatomter by creating more housing on them. It is perhaps a good idea to point out that when building permits were introduced in 2014, the Law Council was very critical, especially in terms of neighbours' ability to complain about the buildings that were built. We have solved this issue – temporarily and far from optimally, I would say, but still – by now being able to appeal against the start-up decision when a construction notification is submitted. However, the government has set up an investigation into a simpler and more effective framework for building permits, and there will be a review of this particular issue. Several of us who are in this Chamber tonight are in the reference group for that investigation. That is a good thing, because I think we all agree that we need a simpler and clearer regulatory framework in this area, which also gives neighbours the right to appeal under the European Convention. As there is now an investigation and the Council's opinion was blank, we believe that we should not have different rules for what to use complementary buildings for right now. The purpose of the amendment to the law for complementary buildings is to make the regulations clearer, simpler and more uniform. The committee proposes that this should take effect from 1 August. Madam President, I would like Finally, as this is probably my last chamber debate this parliamentary year – we don't know what to expect – I would like to take this opportunity to thank you. First of all, as its chairman, I would like to thank the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs for the cooperation we have had. This is the first time I have seen so many of my colleagues in the same place in a very long time, and it is welcome. I would like to thank the fantastic secretariat of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Public Health and Consumer Policy, which has worked hard this spring. We can see that the conditions have been anything but easy to make the work work work. I would also like to thank the President and her colleagues for enabling us to carry out our extremely important task here in Parliament. I hope that after the summer we will be able to return to much more normal forms of work. But we don't know that, and that's why I think it's good that we had to practice and learn here during the spring so that we can rest up during the summer and then come back and hopefully see ourselves physically here in Stockholm.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-660	Madam President, I would like My speech is quite similar to that of Mrs Emmas, because we have had a rather similar approach to this matter in the course of the journey. But I represent the Social Democrats and will present our views on the matter. I shall begin by calling for approval of the proposal contained in the report of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs 22. The report proposes that the maximum area allowed for additional buildings should also be increased from today's 25 square metres to 30 square metres without any requirement for building permits. In January this year, the Riksdag decided, as mentioned earlier, to extend the maximum permitted building area for complementary dwellings to 30 square metres. Boverket has investigated and made suggestions along these lines. However, Boverket's proposals were submitted on condition that the legal shortcomings contained in current legislation are addressed. Nevertheless, the government chose to increase the maximum building area for complementary residential buildings in a first step because it was urgent to obtain better housing than 25 square metres. This change increased the attractiveness of these dwellings by the fact that basic functions now fit within the building, making the dwelling more independent from the main building. The freedom of choice of the individual is also enhanced by providing greater opportunities for alternative planning solutions while meeting accessibility requirements. At the end of January, the Government appointed an investigation that will carry out a systematic review of the regulations for building permits based, among other things, on the criticism of the legal uncertainty of the legislation that has come from Boverket and others. The study will make its proposal by the end of May next year. Madam President, I would like In the committee there was a majority in the spring who wanted to proceed with the proposal that we are debating today. We Social Democrats and others were reluctant to do this before the investigation was completed. However, a proposal was drawn up on which the Law Council later had to give its opinion, and since the Law Council had nothing to recall against that proposal, we reconsidered our position. As there is now an investigation in place to look at how the legal shortcomings can be addressed, we believe that the reasons for simplification are a strong argument for moving forward with an extended building area also for complementary buildings. The reasons for simplification, as set out in the report, are several. Among other things, it facilitates uniform rules for the individual who in the first stage may only build a guest house to convert it into a complementary dwelling house at a later stage. The production of uniform rules is also facilitated for house manufacturers and, to some extent, common rules may also facilitate the handling of building boards. Madam President, I would like However, the issue of the legal uncertainty of current legislation remains. The part of the 2014 legislation that concerns the exemption of building permits for, among other things, afallshus was rushed forward, and very little was taken into account the criticism that was then made primarily by the Law Council but also by many other consultation bodies such as the Svea Court of Appeal. That is the problem we are now dealing with. There is a great deal of responsibility for the investigation, which will produce proposals on how to overcome uncertainties and legal shortcomings in our current legislation, such as how to comply with the law that neighbours can have access to justice under the ECHR and more. Here too, Madam President, a great responsibility lies with us in the committee to work on the good tone and pragmatic approach that has taken place in the spring so that we can come up with good and legally sound legislation on this issue as well. Madam President, I would like I would once again like to support the proposal in the CU22. I would also like to wish the members of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, but also the Madam President, with staff, pleasant midsummer and happy summer.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-673	Madam President, I would like This is, of course, a rather special matter, in that we here in Parliament are directly legislating. We have done it from grain to loaf this time – it is not a government proposal, it is a proposal that we in committee have worked out together. This is a consequence of the Moderates putting forward a motion, when we thought it was unnecessary to red tape that only some houses would be allowed to be 30 square meters. Only those who met the same requirements for the construction of a residential building, i.e. they were isolated for all year round living and had a large, accessible bathroom. All this we saw as cost-driven demands for things that not everyone is asking for. On the other hand, we believe that there are more people who want to be able to build larger building permits free – a freedom reform, quite simply. I welcome and am pleased that the government parties have now changed their minds. But I think you're trying to hide that fact a little bit. In statements that have been seen in the media, the chairman of the committee has said, among other things, that she welcomes this change and thinks it is good that we have now come this far with this. This change would not have happened if, first, the Moderates had presented this motion and, second, a majority had been formed by the Moderates, Christian Democrats, the Center Party and the Swedish Democrats. We drew up this proposal and pushed it through the committee. Until the end, it sounded like the government parties would reserve themselves. It then came to the conclusion that it did not want to do so, and I welcome that. But I think it would at least have been nice if the government parties could have acknowledged this in the comments they make to the media, for example. It has not been driven at all to bring this to light. We're the ones who have been. I also think that this is an example of what happens when we can act like adults towards each other. In fact, here a rather odd party constellation, in consultation with the committee office, has negotiated a product. We, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats have negotiated with the Swedish Democrats. You have negotiated with us and vice versa. And it's worked just fine. I think this may be something to take into account when the tone goes high in the next election movement and it is about who can and cannot talk to who. This has been aimed at trying to arrive at a change in a constructive direction. We have wanted to simplify things for individuals – make it easier to build more, free of building permits. It's a freedom reform, in the small part. It is rightly overshadowed by many other things that have been much more important this spring. This is a small proposal, but, as a symbol, I still think it bears more explosive power because it shows what happens when we in this Parliament can behave like adults towards each other. Then good things can happen, and we can move forward. I appreciate the fact that the government parties, despite their pride from the beginning, opposed this proposal because it did not come from the government but from an individual party in the Swedish Parliament, then chose to join so that, as the chairman of the committee says, we reached agreement on this issue. I think it's good! But I also think that we should recognise the process that has actually been behind this proposal. I understand that it may be difficult for some parties, but I think it is something to carry with it to the next election movement. Then perhaps the next election movement can be more about what we have common points of contact and what we can actually agree on than about what we do not agree on. Current government cooperation is based on this. It is more about what you agree that you are against than what you agree that you are in favour. Now we have come to the conclusion that we agree that we are in favour of making houses larger. I think that's good. That is not something we need to do a great deal of, but I note that this would not have happened if it had not been because we four parties talked to each other, did this together and, with the help of a professional committee office, produced a legislative product that was so well worked out that the Council of Law had no comments. Now it is going through, and as of 1 August, any Swede who wants to enjoy a little greater freedom from building permits. That is something that I and the Moderates think is a good thing, and that is why we are stretching out today. Of course, I would also like to agree with all the motions, I was about to say, from here the speaker's seat of a happy summer to everyone. I hope everyone gets a nice and Corona-free summer!
i-5710f0140e75dd18-683	Madam President, I would like It is nice to have the opportunity for once to request a reply. It is very rare to have it as the smallest party in parliament and also one of the government leaders. I would just like to add a little bit to the writing of history on this issue. It is true that it was the Moderates who presented a follow-up motion on the government proposal. But the proposal is not the Moderates. It was originally produced by Peter Eriksson during the last term of office. He asked Boverket to make suggestions on this. It is also Boverket's proposal that the Moderates have made use of. Boverket made a proposal that all complementary buildings should be extended to 30 square meters; that is the proposal that the Moderates have pursued. Because of the legal uncertainty that we consider still exists and which the government has set up an investigation to resolve, Madam President, the government chose to go forward with only the housing part at this stage. It is the lack of housing that is by far the biggest challenge in this area. But the Law Council then chose to make a blank statement, and then we are so big that we can say that this argument does not stand for us. As chairman of the committee, could I not speak when I am asked from the media how I feel about the committee now presenting a proposal on which we are united? I am pleased that the committee is united in supporting this proposal. Peter Eriksson highlighted this before the 2018 elections, so it is nothing new that we think that we should review these parts.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-687	Madam President, I would like I hope that I do not need to inform the chairman of the committee that Boverket does not submit any proposals to the Swedish Parliament. The political parties do. We Moderates have tabled this proposal. If we had not done so, we would not be here today, because there was no other proposal on the table. So that is the case. It is true that we are leaning against what Boverket also thinks, namely that all attefallshus should be allowed to be 30 square meters. I think perhaps Emma Hult did not really listen to my speech. I am not, of course, critical of Emma Hult's comment on the legislative products coming from the committee. I am simply saying that perhaps there would have been a little greater recognition of the role of your own party in this process and of the fact that, from the outset, there was a majority of four parties that were not part of the government that pushed forward this proposal. That is why this became possible. However, I welcome the fact that at the last minute you agreed with the proposal.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-689	Madam President, I would like It may be that I misunderstand Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin, but it feels like he wants to argue that neither I, the Green Party or the government want to do this. We have never said that; it has never been the basis. The question was when it would be carried out, what investigation needed to be carried out before and what changes needed to be made. I just want it to be clear that we have not been against this. I am pleased that we have now received the Law Council's test and have been told that the Law Council does not see it as a problem. It also provides guidance to the investigation that is now to work to ensure that we get a legally secure review process for all the matters handled within the Planning and Construction Act. The interview to which Mr Bohlin refers, Madam President, was not about this. It was about the matter that we adjusted last week and about what we were doing now. Carl-Carl-Oskar will also know that it is not always all that is reproduced when you have conversations with journalists. But Carl-Carl-Oskar also got to speak in the article, and it was good that we got the overall picture. It is true that without the motion, the motion would not have been up today. But I would like to state very clearly that it is not that this was not an issue that Peter Eriksson raised as a priority before the 2018 elections.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-693	Madam President, I would like I would just like to say that at least Peter Eriksson did not succeed in getting this out of his hands. Madam President, I left only an hour ago to read the whole debate we had in February. It made it quite clear that the government parties were opposed to this very proposal, which we also came up with at the time. I welcome the fact that you have now changed your mind. But I would say that it is historical revisionism to claim that you have been in favour of this from the outset.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-696	Madam President, I would like We are here today debating the CU22 report. I would like to start by thanking the Moderates for pushing on this issue. We were at first doubtful about the proposal because there was an investigation involving parts of this area. But after the Swedish Law Council left the proposal without recall – a petition was made to the Swedish Law Council, which the Swedish Democrats supported – the matter came in another light. Madam President, I would like The proposal extends the number of square metres for complementary buildings, so-called attefallshus. The proposal has been passed by the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party first through the Law Council and then on to the Riksdag table. It is of course gratifying to be able to present such a proposal in summertime. It is a bill that will enter into force on 1 August. We know that around 4 000 complementary buildings are built annually in Sweden. There may be a few more now that the number of square metres is increased. These buildings will then be able to cover 30 square metres instead of, as before, 25 square metres. The complement buildings constitute an exception in Chapter 9 of the PBL. 4 §. This means that building permits will be replaced by a simple construction notification for these complementary buildings and that the municipality will then give a start decision on the matter. It is therefore a significant simplification of these buildings. The roof height may be a maximum of 4 metres. It shall be at least 4,5 metres to the neighbour and at least 30 metres to the nearest railway, unless otherwise agreed by the neighbouring railway or infrastructure manager. Then you can have different measurements than the ones I mentioned. In addition, building permits are currently needed in the parts that the municipality has identified in the detailed plan regarding valuable environment. This also applies to areas of national interest, airports or exercise and shooting fields. It is an important protection to continue to exist. Now that the number of square metres is increased further, it is important that the valuable environments can continue to be protected in the detailed plans. When I have done this description of the matter, Madam President, I would like to conclude by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-703	Madam President, I would like Once again, we must give a thought to the liberal minister who gave the name to the first building permit-free building in 1979. At first it was a small 10 square meters, and in 2008 it became a total of 15 square meters. It was an extremely bold grip for those days to allow homeowners to set up a shed on their plot without applying for building permits. Today this is nothing strange, and you can buy such a building for a few thousand pieces in your construction goods store. Birgit Friggebo named the little house that later came to be named by another minister of an alliance government. The Attefallshuset meant that the small shed became a building that can accommodate what is needed for shorter periods to live on an area of 25 square meters. It is therefore under alliance governments that the most important steps are taken to simplify the rules of the Planning and Construction Act. And it is when alliance parties are given the opportunity to influence the current government that it is possible to pursue reforms such as these. I would also like to thank Mr Bohlin and the Moderates, who have pursued this matter. However, it is important for the record to point out that all discussions on this legislation have taken place within the framework of regular committee work and under the guidance of the committee secretariat. Then I would like to point out that the Center Party really wants to extend the area further. We see 40 square meters as a reasonable size for a complementary dwelling building next to a one- or two-dwelling building. We will return to Parliament with this during the general period of exercise. Madam President, I would like The decision we take tomorrow means that additional buildings are also allowed to be 30 square meters. It is the size allowed in previous decisions where the buildings have been equipped as residential units with sanitary equipment, kitchen, bedroom and full accessibility. The possibility of doing this well afterwards is greater if the building's gross area is larger. The condition is that the ridge height does not exceed 4 metres and that the distance to the plot boundary is not less than 4,5 metres. If it's a shorter distance to the land line, you need neighbors' permission. It is important for us in the Center Party to point out that the decision we are now making should be seen as a housing policy measure and something that can to some extent remedy the housing shortage that Sweden is still suffering from. But only those houses do not solve this. There are discussions on both leasing and planning and construction law provisions on building permits and detailed plans through the January agreement, and this is much more important. The fact that you can build a riding house or café or something similar in connection with your farm strengthens the local business community in the rural areas of Sweden, and it is also a regulatory simplification. But for individuals this is very important. When a building is built, the building area increases within the property. It can then be used more effectively in the way desired by the builder. The complement building, if not used as a dwelling, can help to convert an indoor storage into a bedroom. This increases the space available for a growing family in the small house. It is therefore particularly gratifying that the committee agrees with us here in Parliament that we should make a law that allows additional buildings of 30 square metres and that we can agree on the description: that they help to make more efficient use of the housing stock. As with the earlier attefallshusen and friggebodarna, the construction industry will ensure that there are ready-packaged products for different purposes of good standard at reasonable prices, and it is possible to later convert a bod into a dwelling. But the decision we make today is not straightforward and uncontroversial. What was first perceived as a simple expedition matter by the transitional government became difficult to understand and ultimately limping when residential buildings and buildings were separated in the previous bill – I myself was called by Peter Eriksson on the issue. The imagination and entrepreneurship of these builders are, we have understood, to great joy and also grief for homeowners and neighbors. The legal situation surrounding building permits is also unclear as regards the decision taken in January on complementary buildings. But it is neither improved nor deteriorated by the decision we are now making. A review of the law is needed, and the Center Party will help clarify the cases in which a neighbour can pursue his case to the European Court of Human Rights. The report on a clearer framework for building permits is already in place, and we are of course looking forward to it being presented in less than a year's time. So we can feel confident about the decision we are making now. It follows what Boverket proposed in its report on exempt measures for building permits. Now we have a uniform and easy-to-understand regulatory framework, for which many building boards should be grateful. Checking with homeowners whether the new building is a residential building or a building would be a very ungrateful job. The risk of additional work at building boards is high with two sizes of buildings to be inspected. And it is our opinion that building permits officers should spend their time granting permission for new homes and not making home visits with homeowners. Madam President, I would like As far as we are concerned, this is the last debate this remarkable spring term before the summer. I would like to wish the Chamber of Commerce, the Office of the Civil Committee, who has done an outstanding job on the preparation of this report, the Presidents, the Bureau of the Civil Committee and the Members a nice and healthy leave in accordance with the recommendations of the Public Health Authority. We shal overcome.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-718	Madam President, I would like Then this parliamentary year has just come to an end. It was a year with many faces and changes in conditions and working methods. To a large extent, we as a parliament have managed these changes very well. I think that we as a committee have largely been constructive and have handled both regular work and the extra work on temporary laws with care for each other and with the respect that has been necessary. But one thing remains and does not change: we build too little housing. People live crowded. People live in homes they don't want. Some have no home that they can call their own or a door they can close around. We have not managed to change this with all the goodwill in the world. Forecasts show that for the third year in a row we are reducing housing construction, and what the ongoing pandemic will mean for housing construction we will see. Housing market yes. Of course it is a market, but a market that has long been destroyed by regulations. Of course it is a market, but a market that for a long time is not determined by who builds the best, the cheapest and the best. Of course it is a market, but a market that cannot be enjoyed by everyone, and unnecessary regulations govern who gets and does not get. Real changes are needed to make this market look like a market again with normal market rules. Real changes are needed that make the market believe in stability and dare to invest. Real changes are needed in order for municipalities to realise that Sweden as a whole must take responsibility for the joint building of housing. Real changes are needed in order for us as citizens to be able to ask for the choice of housing we want. Having said that, I can say that I have not seen any decisive steps in this direction taken by the government and the January parties. Of course, we have noted that some investigations to be reported at the end of 2021 have been set up, but we have not seen whether this will lead to any change. But one thing they have actually done – or done and done. After the opposition's diligent work to show that it is worse for the market to make it even more complicated by the fact that the complement housing and the complement building may have different sizes, we are now standing here to decide on the simplification that both should be equal in size, i.e. 30 square meters. Now the whole committee has come to the conclusion in broad agreement that this was a good idea, and we are all quite happy about that. We will make things easier for people, and rules should be as clear and simple as possible. Now it is important to go further and simplify even more for people to set up attefallshus. The reform of attefallshus is a reform of freedom in the sense that it is the landowner who has the greatest decision over the process. We want to go back to the situation that it is only for a notification to the municipality that it intends to build an attefallshus and thus end the case. I understand that the government is in a similar direction and is working on such a proposal. It should only be reported in all municipalities that you want to build an attefallshus. No trouble. No long processing times. No expensive building permits. We, as a party, naturally support the proposal that we are debating today. It simplifies and enables the development of attefallshus, but we hope for more in the future. I'm a positive person. Sometimes it can actually be like a ketchup bottle: Everything lands at once, and maybe this is the first step. In the autumn, the government and the January parties may have the opportunity to take the next step and invite to housing talks where the goal is to increase housing construction with the homes that people want, not what we politicians think they want. The goal must also be for all municipalities to contribute to the overall picture and assume their responsibilities according to their conditions. I look forward to the autumn and the invitation to housing policy talks with the January parties. I support the proposal.
i-5710f0140e75dd18-728	Madam President, I would like Like previous speakers, it is a good thing to harmonise the regulatory framework. It's supposed to be easy to do the right thing. It should be easy for building permits managers to interpret and justify their decisions, and it should be easy for the individual who wants to expand, build new ones or build to understand what is required. The problem, however, is that despite the change we are making now, the regulatory framework is far from easy and logical today. Let me give you a few examples. A 60 centimetre height support wall requires building permits, but if you want to build a completely new dwelling in the form of a 30 square metre roof house, building permits are normally not required. A terrace door where there has not previously been a terrace door requires building permits, but if you want to make a roof cup it is not necessary. A garage requires a building permit, but if you build a supplementary building according to the regulations and it is to be used for garages, building permits are not required. A deck rail that is too tight and can be counted as a plank requires a building permit, but if you decorate a completely new dwelling inside the house it is free of building permits. A roof above the terrace requires building permits, but if you make sure that the roof meets the rules for friggebod, i.e. max 15 square meters and 4 1⁄2 meters from the land limit is not required. Logically, simply and clearly as a hot dog's pad, don't you think? Madam President, I would like It is good that the existing stock is used effectively, that more homes are decorated in villas, that plots can be better utilised and that the individual has a high degree of freedom in developing his own property. Friggeboden, which has been mentioned here before, was an important liberal reform in the right direction. At the same time, there must be a logic in what is laudable and what is not. The support wall of 60 centimetres at the plot border may have a smaller impact on neighbors and the surrounding area than another dwelling on the plot. There are examples of how the possibility of complementary housing affects entire residential areas. One or two additional dwellings in a residential area are usually not a problem. However, when entire residential areas change fundamentally and there are three homes on each plot instead of one to two, as the detailed plan allows, it can have far-reaching consequences for access to nursery and school places in the area, the load on technical facilities and increased traffic on streets that are not always dimensioned for it. When planning municipalities, it is important that they are given the opportunity to plan to build communities, not just housing. Current regulations make it difficult when used as predicted. At the same time, the regulatory framework needs to take account of the fact that one's possibilities and freedom to develop one's property do not hinder another's opportunities and freedom, and this balance needs to be found in the investigation that is now set up on what should be lawful and not in the future. Pending the investigation, it is good that we harmonise the regulations so that we do not complicate things out in our municipalities for individuals who should choose between building a complementary dwelling and a complementary building, because most outside this hall may not really understand the difference between these two. It is good that they are treated as square metres, but we need to remember that we are patching and fixing a regulatory framework that basically needs to be redesigned. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to wish my colleagues in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Madam President and the rest of the House a really nice summer.
