i-d45a73e0da08cada-8	Mr President, I would like to Mr Ludvig Aspling has asked me a number of questions about the referral of the report 'A sustainable migration policy for the long term' (SOU 2020:54). Ludvig Aspling wonders how I and the government work with the selection of referrals and whether I believe that the selection in this case will provide a comprehensive lighting. He also wonders how I and the government have ensured that the legislative process is not affected by Islamists or organisations linked to international terrorism and whether I believe that the choice of the Swedish Muslim Council as a consultation body is appropriate. In addition, he asks how I and the government work with the selection of referrals and how the fact that an organisation is discontinued affects its role as a referral body. First of all, it is important to recall that the consultation procedure for the preparation of a legislative matter is central to meeting the processing requirements laid down in the Constitution. The review procedure aims to ensure that proposals are comprehensively highlighted and the consequences of them are known as far as possible in advance. The quality of government decision-making thus increases to the benefit of democracy, the rule of law and efficiency. The selection of consultation bodies is made taking into account the specific issues dealt with in the present report and the usual preparation within the Government Office. As regards the referral of the report A long-term sustainable migration policy, the list of referrals is broad. These include administrative authorities, courts and municipalities. In addition, a number of organisations have a large and extensive involvement in the field of migration policy. For a long time, the Muslim Council of Sweden has been given the opportunity to comment on legislative proposals, just like many other organisations. Sweden's Muslim Council had not informed the Government Office that it had been re-formed. It goes without saying that an organisation that no longer exists cannot submit referrals either. In addition, everyone is free to submit comments under the consultation procedure even if it is not formally designated as a consultation body. Overall, the government has ensured that the selection of referrals will provide a comprehensive light on the issues covered by the report.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-14	Mr President, I would like to The government has, of course, submitted the proposal for a new migration policy for consultation, and it is not the material content of the proposal that I thought we should talk about today, but which organisations the government has chosen as consultation bodies, i.e. which parties the government thinks should have an influence on the future migration policy. In the Government's own memo Reply to a referral – how and why is one of the headlines The question then is to what extent the selection of referrals in this case might provide such a comprehensive lighting. Overall, the proposal has been referred to 93 different bodies. Of these, no less than twelve organisations openly conduct purely political campaigns to open Sweden's borders. There is not a single organisation that advocates a balanced or restrictive migration policy. One might well ask where the comprehensiveness is here. But an even more important question is why the government has chosen to seek the views of the Muslim Council of Sweden. Sweden's Muslim Council as an organisation has been discontinued since December 2019, but when it existed it served as one of the Muslim Brotherhood's shop windows in Sweden. The organisation's aim was to introduce separate legislation for Muslims and to open Sweden's borders completely to immigration from the Middle East, thus gradually transforming Sweden into a Muslim state. One might ask whether an organisation that wants to use migration as a weapon against Sweden is appropriate as a consultation body in this case. Another question mark in this context is the links between Sweden's Muslim Council and international terrorism. As the Government knows, the Muslim Brotherhood is banned in a number of countries precisely because of its links with radical Islamic organisations and terrorism. Migration policy decisions in turn affect the possibility for terrorist organisations to smuggle soldiers into Sweden and Europe. To then allow an organisation with ties to international terrorist networks to exert influence over Swedish migration legislation is a bit like letting the fox guard the hens, I think. I would therefore like to ask the Government whether he believes that the selection of referrals in this case will give a comprehensive picture and whether he sees a risk in allowing organisations associated with international terrorism to exert influence over Swedish migration policy.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-22	Mr President, I would like to The information we have is that the Muslim Council of Sweden no longer exists, at least not with any activity, and you can of course not leave any referrals. With that, this debate could be concluded, because that was the basic issue. But Ludvig Aspling is looking for something else, as you can see from his post. What Ludvig Aspling is looking for is to cultivate some kind of conspiracy theory that involves Muslim extremists in one way or another influencing Swedish preparation and standing in the background and controlling. We recognize this. The predecessors of the Swedish Democrats, the Nazis, were involved in cultivating another form of conspiracy theory. No, there's nothing to laugh about, Ludvig Aspling. This is everywhere on Twitter, so it's easy to see how this kind of conspiracy theory is cultivated – also that it's Muslim organisations that are in the background. After the Nazis cultivated the theory of Jewish conspiracies, the step is not far to say that it is Muslim conspiracies that stand in the background and govern. In this case, it depends on Sweden's Muslim Council being a referral body. Everyone understands that this is a spin. If Sweden's migration policy were to be governed by a sort of Muslim conspiracy aimed at increasing asylum reception, it would have done a bad job in recent years because the number of asylum seekers has decreased by 90% in 5 years and is now the lowest in 20 years. So there is no logic in this conspiracy theory. But that is never the point of a conspiracy theory, but the point is that you can always sow a seed so that someone can begin to think that it might be so. Does Ludvig Aspling really believe that there is some kind of organisation behind it and that the Swedish government in its preparations allows itself to be led by this type of extremists? I don't know if he does. Perhaps he does not believe in it at all, but simply sends out this signal to spread mistrust and so split in the hope that someone always believes in it. Quite apart, this is an attempt to influence the Swedish debate in a way that I find quite unpleasant. Sweden's Muslim council has been on the consultation lists before but, as I said, has no business anymore. There will therefore be no consultation and will in no way, directly or indirectly, be able to influence the preparation process. That must be said in this debate.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-29	Mr President, I would like to Morgan Johansson calls it conspiracy theories, but I want to remind him of what his own authorities say. Last year, Säpo pointed out Islamist terrorism as the biggest threat to Sweden. The fact that the organisation Sweden's Muslim Council is a shop window for the Muslim Brotherhood comes from a report from the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency, one of the government's own authorities. Is the government's own authorities involved with conspiracy theories, Morgan Johansson? There is another reason why caution should be exercised in allowing organisations related to international terrorism to exert influence over migration legislation, and it is the fact that such organisations often have irregular migration as an important source of income. A report from the Norwegian Center for Global Analysis describes this in a pretty good way. The report has a few years to come, but the conclusions are still relevant: This growing business now provides what is possibly the large and most easily accessible thread finance opportunity for both organized crime networks and armed groups to purchase arms, establish larger and more regular armies, and demand taxation. The report also reads how terrorist organisations specifically attack civilians in order to make them pay for their trip to Europe. This is therefore part of the migration crisis in general. They wouldn't do that if the road wasn't open. I would therefore say that there is a certain delicacy in this situation. Islamic terrorist networks have a direct financial interest in keeping Swedish migration legislation as lax as possible. At the same time, to invite such organisations, as the government has done – today the Swedish Muslim Council is still on the list of referrals – means that decisions are taken in self-interest. I would therefore like to ask the Government whether he at all sees the risk that a consultation body with clear links to international terrorism will act in its own interest when the wider network of terrorist organisations is able to profit financially from the decision in question. The fact that the organisation is technically decommissioned is correct, but this does not seem to have prevented the government from sending out the referral to them. Apparently, no one could google and see that the organization did not exist. Then, just as the Minister for Migration says, the organisation has acted as a consultation body in a number of legislative matters in the past. It had exactly the same background and purpose on those occasions. When it comes to dismissing this as conspiracy theories: No, Morgan Johansson, the information comes in black and white from your own government office.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-36	Mr President, I would like to In fact, for a while I thought that Ludvig Aspling himself did not believe what he said without taking the debate in this way because he hopes that someone will begin to believe it and that he sends out a signal to his possible support troops in order to underpin that kind of conspiracy theory. But after listening to Ludvig Aspling's last speech, I understand that he seems to believe in it himself – that there are organisations involved in trying to influence, through the consultation process in the legislative preparation process, which can influence and which are in the background and pull the strings. I think Ludvig Aspling will have to take off his foil cap. It is therefore an organisation that is no longer active. There has been a request for their opinion on this legislative issue because they have previously been on the list of referrals. Now they've been reformed. It's no stranger than that. The theory of conspiracy is not, therefore, that we do not believe that there are infiltration attempts by Islamist organisations. We are well aware of that. The conspiracy theory that Ludvig Aspling is engaged in is about trying to create a picture of the government or politics being guided by such organizations. It is basically a conspiracy theory that Ludvig Aspling and others from that direction are trying to cultivate, and it is very dangerous. A supplementary question will, of course, be which organisations Ludvig Aspling wants to be on the list of referrals. Another part of his criticism is that it is for many organisations that work for increased immigration that are on the list of referrals. It is clear that some xenophobic organisations could be found to send out the referrals to. I wonder, then, whether Ludvig Aspling might have any proposals for xenophobic organisations which might be allowed to speak instead and to which we should have sent the referral? Does he have any such suggestions? White Aryan resistance, VAM, perhaps? But it is no longer there – it has gone up well in the Swedish Democrats. Or BSS, Preserve Sweden Swedish? It may no longer exist either – it has also gone up in the Swedish Democrats. Or the Ku Klux Klan? But as far as I know, they have no department in Sweden. My question to Ludvig Aspling, if he is unhappy with the list of referrals and wants to see more xenophobic organisations on it, is: which organisations does he want to be on the list? Can he find any of those?
i-d45a73e0da08cada-41	Mr President, I would like to A clear sign that the Government does not dare to stand for its own policy is that he starts talking about Nazism and Ku Klux Klan in the Swedish Parliament. The Government requested a list of organisations. I have no xenophobics, but I have five requests: the Municipality of Sölvesborg, the Municipality of Staffanstorp, the Municipality of Filipstad, the Conservative Union and the Association of Heimdal. That would have been enough for me. If they had been on the list, I would have been happy and satisfied and this debate might not have been held at all. The government is wondering if I really believe what I'm saying. For the sake of clarity, Morgan Johansson, I would like to emphasise that I never say anything that I do not believe in myself. As to where the information that I bring to the interpellation comes from, I believe in it, because it comes from your own government office. If it is the case that the information provided by the government's own authorities and the government's own office is not reliable, you may need to consider what you are doing.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-44	Mr President, I would like to Referrals go out to a wide range of municipalities. It is both cities and rural municipalities in both Norrland and southern Sweden. There is a rolling list where you more or less randomly, to get a general view and a picture of what Kommunsverige looks like, ask questions to Sweden's municipalities. In addition, SKR, Sweden's Municipalities and Regions, are on the list. Ludvig Aspling mentioned some additional organisations. As I said, everyone is free to submit proposals if they wish to do so. We have an open process here. My point in what I have said to Ludvig Aspling is that his purpose with the interpellation itself is to try so some kind of mistrust that is about the government or politics being guided by extremist forces. I believe that there is a certain breeding ground for this, not least in social media, where we are happy to spread this kind of conspiracy theory. That is precisely the debate that Ludvig Aspling is trying to jacket into here. On the substance, however, I can say that when we are finished with the referral itself, we will prepare the legislative proposal as usual in the Government Office, and I hope that we will be able to present a proposal in the spring so that we will have new legislation that will be sustainable in the long term and that we can continue to have control of migration policy in such a way as we have had over the past five years, after we led Sweden out of the refugee crisis. I can assure Ludvig Aspling and everyone else who listens to this debate.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-47	Mr President, I would like to Maria Stenergard has asked me a number of questions about the government's supplementary proposal for the report A long-term sustainable migration policy. Maria Stenergard wonders when I intend to refer the additional proposals, how long the period of referral I intend to set aside for the additional proposals, when I intend to hand over a proposal to Parliament and what is the meaning of the humanitarian protection basis that I will propose. The Migration Committee proposes in the report a long-term sustainable migration policy a provision on residence permits for humanitarian reasons. This provision provides for the possibility of granting a residence permit if there are particularly distressing circumstances, for example in the case of very serious illness, if a residence permit cannot be granted on a different basis. That proposal has already been referred together with the other proposals in the report. When the government referred the report, it was also announced that some additional proposals would be referred. One of these proposals means that there should be an opportunity to grant a residence permit to children if circumstances are particularly tender rather than particularly tender. The same should apply to certain adults who have resided in Sweden with a residence permit and during that time had a special connection with Sweden and where there are particularly distressing circumstances. These proposals are currently being prepared within the Government Office and will be submitted for consultation as soon as possible. The period of referral will be determined when the proposals are ready for referral. A bill will be submitted to the Riksdag so that new legislation can be in place when the Temporary Act expires on 20 July 2021.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-52	Mr President, I would like to For a year, the Parliamentary Migration Committee worked intensively, and in mid-September this year the report was presented. It was named A long-term sustainable migration policy. The title is very ambitious given that many elements that are important prerequisites for a sustainable migration policy are in fact completely lacking. It is a question, for example, of a 'no' being a 'no', that is, those who have received a 'no' on their asylum application should return to their home countries. It is about new arrivals gradually working their way into Swedish welfare, paying taxes and, in line with that, also gaining access to welfare. It is also about a volume target for the reception of asylum seekers. When negotiations broke down, it resulted in a minimalist report with only 26 proposals. According to the impact assessment in this report, the proposals result in Sweden getting the same level of immigration as today. This means that we are in place six in the European Union. We receive almost twice as many in relation to our share of the population of the European Union. It's hardly long-term. To this, of course, we should add that we have had a very large amount of immigration for many years, while at the same time we have failed completely with integration. A lot of people are getting hurt in alienation. Children do not get enough knowledge in school, young people feel hopeless and criminality spreads and puts terror in segregated residential areas. Mr President, I would like to As the only party, the Social Democrats supported the whole of this report and hence the proposals which represent the same high level of immigration as today. But already a few weeks later the Social Democrats turned and opened up new proposals that would undoubtedly lead to increased immigration to Sweden. It was then announced that the government would certainly send the entire report for a referral. At the same time, however, we are working on a number of legislative proposals which run counter to some of the proposals contained in the report. That is the background to this interpellation. There is nothing in writing available on the proposals that the government is working on. But from the press conference I have been able to read the following: First of all, we want to see relief in the Upper Secondary Education Act, so that it makes it easier for those covered by it to obtain permanent residence permits in Sweden. Secondly, we want new grounds for residence for humanitarian reasons which are in direct contradiction with the proposal of the Migration Committee and which run counter to the line taken by the Social Democrats at the time. Thirdly, there is the desire to make it easier for quota refugees to move within the family. These new reliefs seem to be agreed, according to what appeared in Ekot's Saturday interview with Morgan Johansson recently, that proposals should be made. There seems to be some kind of October agreement between the Social Democrats and the Green Party, and it also includes that further relief may be necessary after the consultation round. Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson has repeatedly said that he wants a long-term and sustainable policy. That's why the government set up a parliamentary inquiry. Why, then, is it that, in principle, the moment the report came, it rejected the result and negotiated its own proposal with the Green Party? And how is it that the government agrees on increased immigration, even though Prime Minister Stefan Löfven has told the Swedish people that the number of asylum seekers must be drastically reduced?
i-d45a73e0da08cada-62	Mr President, I would like to First, maybe we should figure out where we are right now. Sweden has the lowest number of asylum seekers in 20 years. This year alone, the number of asylum seekers has fallen by 40% – in a single year. Since the peak of 2015, the number of asylum seekers has decreased by 90 per cent. Then Maria Malmer Stenergard says that we are in sixth place in the EU per capita. In the time of the Moderates, we were among the top countries. We were number one or number two. That's what it looked like back then. That's what happened. The Moderates led Sweden into the refugee crisis, in fact with several different proposals. It was my predecessor Tobias Billström who was responsible for it. First, the world's most generous labour immigration rules were created. Now we see the effects of it with human exploitation, with cheating, with falcons and with human trafficking, sometimes bordering on the slave trade. It is one such issue that we are now going to have to sort out simply because of the reforms that you carried out ten years ago. You also implemented the EU's most generous refugee policy. It was generous from the beginning, but you made it even more generous during your years and created a situation where Sweden stuck out in relation to all other countries. At most, Sweden received 12% of all asylum seekers who came to the EU. Today, the picture is quite different. Today we are receiving 3% of everyone who comes to Europe. The Moderates have also made sure to capsize medical age assessments. That's why we didn't even have it to deal with. So we could not even find out how old the young people who came to Sweden during this time were. All of this we steered up 2015 and 2016. We did so with the ID checks, which, incidentally, the Moderates did not even manage to vote for in this House. They abstained. We did so with the border controls, with the medical age assessments and with the temporary law. The legislation was changed to the minimum level of the EU. We said that the lesson from what we have been through is that Sweden cannot have legislation that is too different from the rest of the EU. Then, as it were, we took the legislation down to the minimum level of the European Union. At that time, the number of asylum seekers decreased by 90 per cent. We reduced our share from 12 to 3 percent. Then it was 2015 – 2016. Now it's 2020. At the same time, we have heard the Moderates almost month after month stand and say the same thing, namely that if we do not immediately do as the Moderates say, the number of asylum seekers will increase. Maria Stenergard and her predecessor have said this and repeated it time and again in the debate. I've always told you to calm down a little bit. Now we have the minimum level of the European Union. However, we do not intend to take any measures that will once again lead us into a refugee crisis. You've been wrong every time. As I said, we are now stable on the lowest figures in 20 years. There is no sign that it would increase dramatically. You will be wrong this time too. Now we are working on the new legislation. It is based on the main ideas of the report, which include the transition to temporary residence permits and the possibility of obtaining permanent residence permits after three years, if certain conditions are met. Family reunification exists but with livelihood requirements. It should be remembered that permanent residence permits were introduced in Sweden in 1984. This means that if we move to temporary residence permits, it will be the strictest legislation in Sweden for over 40 years in this respect alone. What we are now going to refer – we are about to complete these proposals – does not in any way upset the basic structure of the report, but is about complementing some issues, where the Committee might not have thought of filling in some gaps. It is a natural part of a processing process.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-70	Mr President, I would like to Now it came again, the falsification of history. It's like Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson has no shame in his body. This government has the habit of blaming itself, but the worst of all is Morgan Johansson. The first thing that Stefan Löfven did in his government declaration was to support the previously conducted migration policy. It was also an immigration policy that the Alliance had inherited by the Government Göran Persson. The Alliance Government and the Green Party did not carry out major asylum policy reforms – unfortunately, I will add. We should have changed the policy and tightened it up substantially. When the Moderates of spring 2015 changed their policy and demanded temporary residence permits as a general rule, what did this Minister of Migration, Morgan Johansson, say that he was the driving force for austerity? Well, he said we Moderates were no longer human. We were something else. While we demanded austerity, his own Prime Minister stood at the Citizens' Square and said: My Europe does not build walls. The Morgan Johansson history does not seem to know any boundaries – or, as a very wise person recently wrote: And yet he's always been right. ...but don't forget that it was all the Moderates' fault. I think it is a good summary. Mr President, I would like to So the reason we are laying low now is because we have closed the borders. There is a global pandemic. Yes, even before that, we were lower than in 2015, but everything else would have been a disaster. The fact is that last year, both per capita and nominally, we were in position six in the EU. I will go back to the subject matter of the interpellation. When I asked the interpellation, I was particularly curious about the humanitarian protection basis that the government will propose. Some form of valve is needed under international law for these cases, but how that valve is designed plays a very important role in how many people choose to go to Sweden compared to other countries. We cannot stand out compared to our neighbours. The Migration Committee proposed a valve that is slightly narrower than the one in force before the temporary law. The Social Democrats signed that in September. The Moderates suggested an even narrower valve, corresponding to the one we have in the temporary law. Now it is clear from the Minister's reply today that the Social Democrats have agreed with the Green Party on a humanitarian protection base which is the most generous seen in this country in modern times. Therefore, it should no longer be necessary for adults to have exceptional reasons, but for specific reasons. What happened in Social Democracy in the short time? This risks having enormous consequences for how many people choose to go to Sweden. Has Morgan Johansson looked at the consequences at all? And, above all, is he prepared to face those consequences?
i-d45a73e0da08cada-79	Mr President, I would like to This is also symptomatic of how the debate sometimes takes place among the Moderates nowadays. The Moderates can't stand being contradicted. If you disagree, you will be furious, Maria Malmer Stenergard. You become so angry, so angry when you are reminded of the policy that you yourself conducted and when you ask why you did nothing about it. As I said, I have seen my predecessor Tobias Billström go out in the debate and try to make it that he really wanted to conduct a completely different policy but that he did not get for Fredrik Reinfeldt. Then one wonders why he was still in the government and continued to raise wages, because he did. Maybe that's why he stayed in those years – to raise wages, simply. This was the case, Maria Stenergard: you did nothing in 2013 and 2014 when the number of asylum seekers rose sharply. We had 80 000 asylum seekers in 2014. Then you lost the election in the autumn of 2014, and we took over. Then the figure continued to rise, and then we acted. You did nothing during your years, but we tightened this up with the border controls, the ID checks and the temporary law. Even when we received 10,000 a week, the Moderates couldn't vote for the ID checks. On the contrary, it was written – the same Tobias Billström, incidentally – an article in Sydsvenskan, or if it was in any other newspaper in southern Sweden, that Sweden could not have ID checks because it would destroy integration in Öresund. Yes, of course we knew that, but it was still an absolutely necessary measure to resolve the situation. Had we not gone forward with the ID checks in autumn 2015, our entire asylum system would have capsized. So it is not a falsification of history, it is an account of how it actually happened. We are now in a situation where we have the lowest number of asylum seekers in 20 years. It is true that the number of asylum seekers has fallen sharply in the last year and that it can probably be attributed to the pandemic. The 40% reduction in just one year can certainly be attributed to it. But that is not true if you look at it in the longer term: we had the peak, 163 000, in 2015, and then the figure fell very sharply. The following years, the number of asylum seekers has been around 20 000 per year. So it's stable low. Every time the Moderates and Maria Malmer Stenergard have gone out and said that the government must do this or so and in one way or another, otherwise the number of asylum seekers will increase, she has been wrong. Every time she has alerted that there are now more asylum seekers, Maria Malmer Stenergard and the Moderates have been wrong. That's just the way it is. Now we're working on the new law. As I said, it is based on a transition to temporary residence permits. It is also based on the possibility of obtaining a permanent residence permit after three years if you meet certain requirements. You're supposed to be able to make a living. One should have basic knowledge of the Swedish language. One should have basic knowledge of how Swedish society works. In addition, a vandelstest must be carried out to ensure that the person has not committed any serious crimes. It is then possible to obtain a permanent residence permit. Then there is the possibility of family reunification, also with the basic requirement of subsistence. This is a balance between rights and obligations. It is about the right to seek asylum and the right to receive protection if you need it and about the obligation – the duty, if you want – to establish yourself in the new society that you have come to. That is the main idea of the report we are now working on. The additions to parts of the legislation that we intend to do are less – I would say almost marginal – adjustments and in no way upset the main thrust laid down in the report. However, it is natural in a process of preparation that some legislative gaps must be filled in when preparing legislative proposals.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-84	Mr President, I would like to I note that there was not a single word about the new humanitarian protection base, which is therefore the most generous we have seen in Sweden in modern times. It's something symptomatic. No one knows where we have the Social Democrats in immigration policy. All we know is that we don't know where we have them. Before the elections, the Social Democrats said that migration policy should be based on a minimum level and that the principles of the temporary law should be established. In January this year, Stefan Löfven told DN that the number of asylum seekers must be drastically reduced. Last summer, the Social Democrats supported an immigration policy which represents the same level of immigration as today, and now they are prepared, together with the Green Party, to open up to more extensive immigration. It is fast in hockey, and it is certainly fast in the Social Democrats' immigration policy. No one knows where they are today, and let alone we know what they will think tomorrow. Clearly, the Social Democrats have failed to achieve a long-term sustainable and tight immigration policy. It is clear that they repeatedly fail their promises, thereby also betraying all those who have been caught up in the red-green alienation and who are completely dependent on us reducing immigration for a long time to come. Clearly, we also need a completely different government, one that is prepared to stand by and enforce its policies. Then I just have to respond to the unworthy attack by Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson on his predecessor Tobias Billström. Morgan Johansson says the Moderates don't like being contradicted. It feels like projection, to use a psychological concept. Through yourself, you know others. To say that Tobias Billström stayed on just to raise his salary, I think is to scoff at his predecessor in a way that makes even Donald Trump fade. I think it is unworthy of a Swedish minister.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-88	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps we can have that debate another time, in which case together with Tobias Billström. Then he'll have to explain himself. However, I see how he is constantly in the debate and attacking the government, but at the same time absolutely never ever want to stand for the decisions he himself was involved in making. There are, of course, different ways of acting as politicians, but if you have pushed forward the world's most generous policy on labour immigration – and then, moreover, the EU's most generous asylum policy – and then afterwards you say that everything was wrong and that you really wanted to do something, you have to explain, after all, why you stayed. And maybe Billström will either day. I believe, however, that the vast majority of those who sit in a government and need to pursue a policy that goes completely against what they stand for enough would conclude that they can no longer remain in that government. I can only say that Mr Billström did not do so, but he remained in charge of a policy which he now says in retrospect that he absolutely did not support. But he himself will have to answer as to how he reasoned on that occasion and why it was done in that way. I can only say that we took over a policy that was the most generous and that we tightened it up in 2015 – 2016. We now have the lowest number of asylum seekers in 20 years. We have had low numbers from 2016 onwards. I am not going to let go of any legislation that upsets this, but I am going to ensure that we continue to keep the control we have created. Maria Malmer Stenergard said something like that this was the most generous policy in modern times or something like that. No, it's not that. Instead, this legislation will be very close to the temporary law, which in turn is at the minimum level of the European Union. This guarantees, in my opinion, that we will not again end up in the kind of crisis that we had to take over and lead Sweden out of 2015–2016.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-92	Mr President, I would like to Ola Johansson has asked me if, given the long housing queues and the need for more housing, I am prepared to investigate legal and financial conditions for introducing a housing saving in Sweden according to the Bauspar model. I would like to begin by saying that it is important that the state and municipalities are helped to create a housing supply that meets both needs and demand around the country. More housing is needed throughout Sweden, not least to make it easier for young adults to get their first home. In addition to long-term and stable new production of housing with different forms of leasing, mobility needs to increase in the housing market in order for there to be a variety of housing that suits people's different needs. The government invited earlier this year to talk about the future of housing construction. In this context, it was identified that access to the housing market for young people and others in need of housing is an important part of sustainable development. For many people who are going to establish themselves on the housing market, it is often appropriate to rent a dwelling. In accordance with the January Agreement, the Government has reformed investment support for rental apartments and housing for students. Investment aid has so far been granted for some 36 000 homes with reasonable rent across the country. The challenges of establishment in the housing market are complex. There is therefore a need to look more closely at how the housing market can function better in terms of both owned and rented housing, and the Government intends to continue to work actively to ensure that more households have their needs met in the housing market. In accordance with the January Agreement, a comprehensive tax reform will also be implemented, which will, inter alia, reduce household indebtedness and contribute to improving the functioning of the housing market. In such a review, there are probably few issues that will not be analysed. One issue that will be analysed is the possibilities for more people to establish themselves on the housing market.
i-5pW6tDGL9t9JAVPF7WVHdP	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Per Bolund, for your answer. By 2027, 641 000 apartments will need to be added in order to achieve a balance between supply and demand. We see a trend that initially pointed in the right direction but now turns downwards. In Per Bolund's defense, no minister of housing before him can boast that it has been able to achieve permanently the addition of new housing that Boverket believes would be needed to remedy the housing shortage. Unfortunately, the information given here today by the government does not show any higher ambitions than those we have managed to persuade the government to do through the January agreement and budget negotiations. On the contrary, it is a non-reply that is delivered. Today, despite the fact that Minister Bolund has not touched on the matter at all, we are going to discuss housing saving – or building saving, which is the correct translation of the German word Bauspar. Mr President, I would like to Saving, no matter how it happens, creates the conditions for financing consumption, for example a home purchase. The funding is precisely the high threshold that hinders both the construction of all forms of leasing and the actual purchase of those who have not already owned a dwelling. The mortgage ceiling allows you to take only housing loans of up to 85 per cent of the price of the dwelling, and in addition, Finansinspektionen imposes amortisation requirements on the banks that exclude many from the possibility of owning their home. There are many of us who have criticised this, and the debate highlights it as a reason why it has been built too little. We have not yet seen any initiative for the tax reform mentioned in Per Bolund's reply. Eight out of ten people prefer to own their home rather than rent. It should be well known that the queues for the rental market would be considerably shortened if the wishes of all these people could be met to a greater extent by an opportunity to save for their own home. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party wants to investigate a housing saving with the German building savings, Bauspar, as a model – hence my question to Bolund. Household savings need to be increased and targeted at the construction sector. It is healthy economy to save first and then use its savings capital for something that has a lasting value and creates good living conditions. To say the least, I am puzzled by the answer I have received. Have you read and understood my question, or do you not care how housing will be financed in the future? What is Per Bolund trying to hide by not answering my question? I am therefore obliged to ask Per Bolund the question again: Is Per Bolund prepared to investigate the legal and economic conditions for introducing housing savings in Sweden?
i-d45a73e0da08cada-106	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ola Johansson, for the question and for the opportunity to discuss this important issue! It is obvious, despite Ola Johansson's somewhat pointed tone, that this issue is related to the overall functioning of the housing market and what opportunities there are for young people to enter the housing market. You do not have a housing saving just for fun, but a housing saving, in the countries where it exists, is precisely so that you can give an opportunity for young people to enter the housing market. I think it is relevant to discuss whether this is the only way forward or whether there are different ways to achieve that goal. Then we must also discuss measures in the housing market in a broader sense. Ola Johansson talked about a trend, and the trend is that we have now built more than we have done in many decades. This is gratifying, because we have a growing population and need a high level of construction. But there is also another trend, namely that the number of municipalities that report a housing shortage is decreasing in our country. This has been at significantly higher levels in the past. That is not to say that we are there, but much more effort is needed in the future. That is why I am pleased that we now have a more active housing policy than we have in decades, for example with the investment aid for rental apartments that the Green Party, together with the Social Democrats, the Liberals and the Center Party, which Ola Johansson represents, has agreed that we should continue with and streamline the focus for. For a young person the possibility of getting a first-hand contract is a very attractive way into the housing market. As far as the possibility for young people to enter the housing market is concerned, we know that one of the major thresholds is when house prices are constantly rising and also rising rapidly. This makes it harder and harder for a young person to enter the housing market. In recent years, however, we have had a calmer development than in the past, before the Green Party stepped in and took over the responsibility of the Minister for Housing. This makes it at least not more difficult and difficult for young people to enter the housing market, as it was when the alliance parties had government power. I agree with Ola Johansson that we need to think about how we can lower the thresholds for young people. I think it is good to take a greater approach – a holistic approach – to this issue and not just look at a single measure, but look more broadly at what measures could be considered. I think there is a danger in copying a country's solution and then saying that it will automatically work in our country. For example, we can see that housing savings are available in different forms in different countries. In Germany, as I said, Bauspar has been established. In Norway there is b oligsparing for young people, which is another focus on trying to promote housing savings. There have also been other proposals in the general debate on housing policy on how the threshold of the housing market could be lowered for young people. For example, Riksbyggen has proposed what they call young mortgages, which would be a way of giving young people the opportunity to access credit. That is why we have commissioned a study on socially sustainable housing policy to look at the possibility for young people to enter the housing market and to see what measures could be considered. It is also important to note that the development has been positive when it comes to young people's ability to obtain mortgages in Sweden. In 2012, only 10 per cent of those born as mortgage holders were under 30 years of age, but now it is 20 per cent. So there has been an increase in that group, and that is something that is fundamentally positive. We must ensure that the threshold is further lowered in order to enter the housing market.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-115	Mr President, I would like to Of course, housing issues should be discussed as a whole, but that does not rule out discussing a partial issue. Here I choose to ask Per Bolund a question concerning a housing model, and I expect that that is what we are going to discuss. Mr President, I would like to The housing savings are built up so that you join one of the established bosparkassor and start saving there. First, you save up to 40 – 50 percent of the amount needed, and then you withdraw the amount you have saved, plus an equal or higher amount. As a result, the top loan for the home you have chosen has been secured quite quickly. How fast you want to save, you decide for yourself. And if you choose to end your savings early and not spend your money on a home, you have the right to get your savings back. Building savings are a form of collective savings. It joins and contributes a monthly amount to the joint capital build-up in a fund. When you consider that you have come up with the amount of your savings needed to buy, build or renovate a dwelling, you choose to take out your loan, which then amounts to double the amount or more of what you have saved. This will result in a debt which will then be repaid to the fund in the same way as it has previously been saved. As long as it takes to save, it takes to repay the loan. This is a form of starting loan, where the savings you already have are collateral. You can use it for the cash bet, an extension or a renovation. The only requirement is that the loan is used for a dwelling that is or will be your own. Refunds go back to the fund and thus contribute to the remaining savers. In the eight EU countries where construction savings have been introduced, there are 40 million individual B auspar contracts worth just over a trillion euros. They contribute to the financial stability of each country. This is something that the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority says it wants to protect. What about Per Bolund's view on this particular matter? Basically, building savings are advantageous compared to other ways of saving. The interest rate on the loan does not change during the repayment period. The preferential nature of this is determined by the degree of subsidisation chosen by the State. Although the system does not require subsidies, each government is free to decide what effect it wants to have on the owned market, how much capital it wants to tie up in savings and to what extent it wants to stimulate ownership in relation to other forms of leasing. In this case, the premium is for those who have saved and not for the housing fund. Mr President, I would like to All in all, Bauspar is the form of housing savings that we in the Center Party primarily want to investigate. I have taken this interpellation as a means to hear the government's interest in considering different models for housing consumers to have the opportunity to own their home earlier in life. But since I am not told how the Government views this particular model, nor other models for building saving, I would like to rephrase the question to read: Is the government at all interested in investigating some form of housing saving, or is it going to sit on its hands until there is an announcement from the Riksdag?
i-d45a73e0da08cada-122	Mr President, I would like to We are always interested in working with the Riksdag and do not mind that there are initiatives from the Riksdag on various issues, so I do not take that threat so seriously. It seems that Ola Johansson did not really listen or perhaps did not understand the answer I gave to his question, that is, that the government has chosen to look at the slightly broader question of how we can help young people get into the housing market. There is an investigation right now and is working on exactly that question. It is very possible that they will find that a tax-subsidised housing saving is a very good way, and then we already have a process in progress that leads to precisely what Ola Johansson wants. But we do not want to rule out the possibility that they might conclude that another model would be more suitable for Sweden. There is a danger in saying that what works in Germany will automatically work in Sweden. Of course, there are things that separate Sweden and Germany. It can be about what our tax systems look like, and it can be about what our construction and housing markets look like. Therefore, we need to analyse what it looks like from the Swedish situation and not from anecdotal knowledge of what works or does not work in Germany and what is good there. I think it is important that we try to take a slightly broader approach to this issue and not just automatically decide that a solution will be able to cope with the beef and allow young people to enter the housing market. I also think that we can lean on the knowledge that has been built up in Sweden on this issue. Finansinspektionen has just looked at the situation for young people in the housing market. In its analysis, the position of young adults in the housing market, which came last year, shows that there are changes that have worsened the situation of young people in the housing market, if you look back several years. Among other things, it is pointed out that access to rental apartments has been reduced and that this is a challenge for young people. We also know that a young person who is unable to access a rental apartment is referred to the purchased stock. It then drives up prices in the purchased stock and can make it more difficult for others to access a dwelling. It is also pointed out that young people's income has grown more slowly than other groups' income and that this also contributes to the difficulty of entering the housing market. At the same time, Finansinspektionen points out that house prices have risen very quickly. It is, of course, an effect of political decisions that were made during a period when one very much had the attitude that there should be hands-off policies on the housing market and that only market forces should decide who gets or does not get a home. The current government has chosen a different approach. We believe that the state needs to take responsibility for the housing market to work for everyone and for everyone to have their needs satisfied and met. Finansinspektionen points out that there are still great opportunities for young people to actually enter the housing market. A comparison is made between 2012 and 2018, showing that 85 per cent of the purchases made in 2012 could also be financed by households with similar conditions in 2018. We're not going to paint the situation like night black. Sometimes you can idealize past times and think that it has always been easy for young people to enter the housing market. But I suspect that both Ola Johansson and I can testify that even when we were going to take that step it was not always easy. We need to continue to do what we can to make it easier for young people to enter the housing market. That is why we are stimulating the housing market, for example with investment aid. We have now taken the initiative to turn offices into housing – offices that are gaping empty because people are working more and more at home, not least now during the pandemic. We also support village communities. Germany has also gone ahead there and shown that it is also a way for young people, for example, to find accommodation that suits their purposes. We work extensively to find solutions for young people to enter the housing market.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-133	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that Per Bolund takes precisely the example of construction projects, which is a loan from Germany, after he has claimed that it is anecdotal knowledge that underpins the will of the Center Party to pursue the issue of a building saving model according to German pattern. It is precisely an investigation that I am calling for in this interpellation debate, and in this case I do not get an answer. I agree with Per Bolund that the housing market consists of communicating vessels between different tenure forms and stimulating one form of housing can affect the other and vice versa. The investment aid is one such example. But this in itself has not led to a remarkable increase in housing construction. On the other hand, I can see that the way in which the Center Party has helped to change investment aid has contributed to greater demand for investment aid in rural municipalities and in weaker housing markets, where it is well known that market forces have more difficulty in obtaining investment capital for new housing. On the issue of what we are discussing here today, housing savings as part of the whole that could fundamentally reform housing policy, I feel that Per Bolund is deliberately filibustering. He avoids talking about the issue. He refrains from giving any kind of information about his view of housing saving as a phenomenon. Instead, he mixes it into a discussion about the investigation carried out by Karolina Skog in an excellent way as if it were to lead to a proposal on housing savings. Actually, we have no idea. What, then, is Per Bolund trying to hide? He's also a finance market minister. Of course, the banks have an interest in providing young home buyers with their top loans with interest rates of up to 5 to 7 per cent. The bosses that I am advocating are at the side of this. A new law is needed that sets the rules for building savings in Sweden. That's what we want the government to investigate.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-138	Mr President, I would like to I think this has been a good debate, perhaps with the exception of the last suspicion that I would go ahead with the banks' affairs and try to improve their business. It's not part of my work as a finance market minister. However, as Minister of Housing, I really see it as part of my work to do what I can to make it easier for all people and all families to have a place to live that suits their needs. This applies not least to young people, who we know of course also have a need for housing in order to be able to take the step out into adulthood, get the job and the education they dream of and be able to get the best possible life in the future. As I have replied several times, I think it is good to start with an investigation that takes a slightly broader approach before we get into the individual measures that will solve the problem. It is possible that housing savings will prove to be the solution, and then I am very willing to come forward with such a proposal. However, I think it is a good condition if you initially look a little wider at the issue. My party, on the other hand, has taken a stand for housing saving as a measure that could help young people to enter the housing market. I hope that, together with Ola Johansson in our cooperation in the January agreement, I can pursue these issues and make it even easier for young people to enter the housing market. After all, we are jointly presenting budgets and designing economic and also other policies. If the Center Party now thinks that this issue is crucial, as it sounds, then one might ask why you did not run it when the January agreement was signed so that it came in as a point. You didn't. We do, however, have an agreement in the January agreement on tax reform. As this is about tax-subsidised housing savings, there is every possibility for the Center Party to pursue this issue in this context. We will see if we cannot also do so in a common spirit and try to find a good solution in the future. I believe that we have every opportunity to pursue issues that make it easier for young people to enter the housing market together.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-144	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Johnsson Fornarve has asked me how the government intends to act on human rights violations in Western Sahara. I would like to begin by thanking the honourable Member for raising an important issue. The latest developments in the Guerguerat area show not least how relevant the interpellant's question about Western Sahara is. The government is very concerned about developments and fully supports the UN's efforts to preserve the 1991 ceasefire. The referendum that would take place to determine the status of Western Sahara has not yet been carried out. The most important thing for moving forward is to restart the political process. The latest report on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Western Sahara, published in June 2020, clarifies that human rights violations occur in Western Sahara. It is particularly evident for those who are working for the sovereignty of the Sahrawi people. The UN has noted that there have been arbitrary detentions of persons who have demanded self-determination for Western Sahara. Journalists have been prosecuted and sentenced to prison, for example in connection with watching demonstrations. In the EU's dialogue with Morocco, democracy and human rights are important components, and the issues raised in the Joint Declaration adopted in the context of the EU-Morocco Association Council in June 2019. Sweden stressed the difficulties for human rights representatives during the review of Morocco in the UN Universal Review Mechanism 2017. Sweden, among other things, recommended Morocco to ensure that its opinion, press, opinion, assembly and association were respected – also for those who expressed your views on Western Sahara. The recommendations must be heeded. Our embassy in Rabat travels regularly to Western Sahara. The human rights aspect is raised in talks with local representatives, including the highest state representative of the National Human Rights Council. The Embassy also meets civil society and human rights defenders. Of course, we regularly discuss human rights issues also with Morocco's representatives in Sweden. The UN Human Rights Council, at its 45th session in September 2020, examined a report on reprisals against individuals working with the UN. The report describes that Aminatou Haidar, a very brave woman whom I myself have met, has been subject to administrative harassment, physical abuse, restrictions on freedom of movement or restrictions on freedom of expression, both off- and online. In the course of its examination by the UN Human Rights Council, the EU stressed the expectation of all states to respect and protect civil society actors and human rights defenders working with the UN. The EU condemned all forms of harassment and reprisals. A similar message was made in a Nordic-Baltic speech. Looking at the government's action on M inurso's mandate, our efforts during our time in the Security Council contributed, among other things, to the inclusion of the humanitarian situation in the refugee camps in Tindouf, to the strengthening of the cooperation of the parties with the UN Office for Human Rights and to the inclusion of women in the political process. The government's view is that MINURSO's mandate should also include a review of human rights compliance. The UN-led independent commission of inquiry tasked with visiting the occupied Western Sahara has been discussed previously in the UN but not taken further as the proposal has not been heard by a sufficient number of UN Member States. Mr Johnsson has also asked me whether Sweden, in its contacts with Spain, will raise the issue of Spain's responsibility for Western Sahara as a former colonial power. Spain left the Western Sahara in 1976 and announced in this connection that it no longer considered itself responsible for Western Sahara. Sweden has a continuous dialogue about the situation of Western Sahara with Spanish representatives, not least in the UN where we are clear about the Swedish line. To conclude, I would like to emphasise that the government will continue to support the UN's work aimed at achieving a fair, sustainable and mutually acceptable negotiated solution in which the right of the Sahrawi people to self-determination is satisfied. I consider it essential to set up the Secretary-General's personal envoy as soon as possible in order to relaunch the political process. The government is pressing the UN to do so. I myself raised the issue with UN Secretary-General Ant ó nine Guterres.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-155	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the answer to my interpellation! The situation in Western Sahara has changed dramatically and deteriorated since I wrote my interpellation. Unfortunately, there is no longer a truce, but war has broken out. It is a war that could have been avoided if the UN had done its job and implemented the peace plan agreed by the parties 30 years ago and if Morocco had kept to the agreements reached. The underlying cause of the war outbreak is that Morocco has built a road through the buffer zone to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs refers, completely contrary to agreements reached. The UN promised to set up a Commission to investigate the matter, which has not happened. The road was built mainly to bring out raw materials plundered from the occupied Western Sahara. Some time ago, Western Sahara started a peaceful protest in the buffer zone. On 13 November, Moroccan military went in and attacked the peaceful demonstrators, forcing the Polisario army to go in to protect its citizens. The ceasefire, which is now unfortunately broken, came about after the parties agreed to hold a referendum on the independence of Western Sahara – a referendum that has still not taken place almost 30 years later. The UN must now act vigorously to ensure that the promised referendum takes place and that a clear timetable is drawn up for this. If nothing happens, the risk of a full-scale war is imminent. The situation in the part of Western Sahara illegally occupied by Morocco is very serious with regard to human rights. Last December, Aminatou Haidar received the Right Livelihood Award here in Stockholm. She received the prize for her peaceful struggle for human rights and for dedicated her whole life to fighting for her people's self-evident right to her own country. She is now again subjected to repression and hatred on the Moroccan side. But she's far from alone. Western Saharans in the occupied Western Sahara are subjected daily to systematic hatred and threats, harassment and imprisonment from the occupying power. The situation has worsened further over the last few days. Peaceful demonstrations have been attacked, and a large number of demonstrators have been arrested. In practice, there has been a long-standing state of emergency in the occupied Western Sahara. Morocco has total control, not the United Nations. Virtually no independent observers or journalists are allowed into the country. I myself have tried to visit the country as an observer with a group from the Christian Peace Movement, but we were not allowed in. Mr President, I would like to It is high time that the outside world acted forcefully to protect the Sahrawi population. It is good that the Embassy in Rabat is conducting talks on human rights, but the work on human rights needs to be stepped up substantially. I therefore hope that the Foreign Minister will call up Morocco's ambassador to Sweden and underline that Morocco as an occupying power is responsible for the observance of human rights in the occupied Western Sahara and that the persecution of Aminatou Haidar and other activists will cease immediately. I am pleased that the Foreign Minister stresses that the political process must continue, but after the war has broken out the situation has changed dramatically. Sweden must increase pressure on the UN and in its bilateral contacts in order for the original peace plan to be implemented and the referendum to be put in place as soon as possible in order to prevent an escalation of the war.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-165	Mr President, I would like to The recent very worrying developments, to which Lotta Johnsson refers, on the border with Mauritania in the Guerguerat region, show how important it is to launch a peace process aimed at finding a fair, sustainable and mutually acceptable negotiated solution to the right of the Western Sahara to self-determination. Sweden supports the UN's efforts to preserve the 1991 ceasefire, and we stress the importance of a renewed political process. The High Representative of the European Union for Foreign and Security Policy has delivered similar messages in talks with foreign ministers in Morocco and Algeria. The UN Secretary-General's former envoy Horst Köhler achieved progress in talks between the parties as late as 2019. Unfortunately, he had to resign shortly thereafter for health reasons. But his work shows that an emissary makes a difference to finding a long-term political solution. It is therefore very important that a new envoy be appointed as soon as possible. I myself have pointed this out to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr Guterres, as late as last spring. We discussed at the time the misfortune of the peace process standing still pending a new envoy. Mr Guterres explained the many efforts made to get a new envoy in place. I stressed that Sweden was happy to assist in facilitating the process. Due to recent developments, I have now asked our diplomats and representatives at the UN to make further calls for a new envoy. As I see it, it's the best and most accessible path right now. Sweden will continue to work for the Sahrawi people's right to self-determination, not least by supporting the UN's efforts. Morocco's Embassy in Stockholm has been represented for some time by a chargé-d'affaires, who primarily our head of the Middle East and North Africa unit has had talks with. But I look forward to the arrival of a real ambassador, so to speak, with whom we can continue to have these talks.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-169	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. Of course, it is important to appoint a new UN representative for Western Sahara. But that is not enough. Nor is there any doubt that the ceasefire is now, unfortunately, broken and that there is once again war between Morocco and Polisario. In his communication, the policeario is very clear that there are no longer grounds for the ceasefire after Morocco entered the military and attacked the peaceful demonstrators in the buffer zone in the south, which is certainly not right. The peace plan signed by both parties, which is the basis of the ceasefire, has not been implemented, even though it has been 29 years. The only real solution is a return to the original peace plan, which includes the holding of a referendum on the independence of Western Sahara. I think it is extremely important that Sweden is very clear about the referendum. The repression and persecution of the Sahrawi people in the occupied part of Western Sahara are only getting worse every day. It is something that can go on without the UN Force Minurso being able to intervene, because it does not have a mandate to monitor human rights and freedoms. Independent journalists are rare in Western Sahara, as Sahrawi journalists must work in the hidden and foreign places not allowed in. The country was named the fourth most unfree in the world this year by the American organization Freedom House. Western Saharas who protest too loudly risk being imprisoned for their views. A well-known case, highlighted by the UN and Amnesty, concerns the 24 Sahrawi people who were arrested in connection with the protests in Gdeim Izik in 2010. The detainees were sentenced to extremely severe punishment in a military court after confessions forced under torture. Of course, all political prisoners must be released. Over 400 of the thousands of Sahrawi people who were imprisoned during the 16-year military conflict between Polisario and Morocco are still missing, a conflict in which Morocco committed a large number of war crimes and violations of international law. Morocco bombed the civilian population with napalm and phosphorus bombs and drove thousands of Sahrawi refugees into the Sahara desert. Unfortunately, the UN has so far failed in its mission, while the repression of the Sahrawi people and the plundering of Sahrawi raw materials continue. Nor has the UN managed to set up an envoy for Western Sahara, which we have just discussed, which is, of course, remarkable. As I said, it is good that Sweden continues to press the UN for a new envoy to be appointed. Above all, however, the UN must ensure that the peace plan agreed by the parties is implemented and that the referendum takes place. Sweden must also continue to demand that Minurso's mandate be extended to include human rights monitoring. There is no other solution to the conflict. Morocco's illegal occupation has been going on for 45 years, since 1975, and has been condemned by both the UN and the International Court of Justice in The Hague. No country in the world recognizes Morocco's sovereignty over the area either. It is high time that the last colony of Africa finally got its freedom. The Western Sahara have waited too long.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-177	Mr President, I would like to Respect for international law is a cornerstone of our foreign policy. This also applies in relation to Western Sahara, which is a decolonisation issue within the UN. The International Court of Justice adopted an advisory opinion on the status of the area in 1975. This means that the international community does not recognise Morocco's claim to sovereignty over the territory. Respect for international law has also guided our view of the EU's agricultural and fisheries trade agreements and the fisheries partnership agreement with Morocco. The EU Court of Justice ruled in 2016 and 2018 that the EU Agriculture and Fisheries Trade Agreements and the Fisheries Partnership Agreement with Morocco did not apply to the territory of Western Sahara and adjacent waters. A process of developing new agreements followed. We abstained in the vote on the Agriculture and Fisheries Trade Agreement and voted against the Fisheries Partnership Agreement. Unfortunately, we were quite alone in the European Union. Our positions are based on considerations of international law. The EU's dialogue with Morocco obviously concerns respect for human rights and democracy. Sweden is also working to strengthen respect for human rights within the framework of our region strategy for MENA. Of course, we are also engaged in an ongoing dialogue with Morocco on human rights and our international legal approach to Western Sahara. As I said in my interpellation response, it is the government's view that Mr Minurso's mandate should also include an examination of the fulfilment of human rights.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-180	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. I am well aware that Sweden has stood up for the cause of Western Sahara over the years. I also know that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been involved in this matter for some time. It is extremely good that Sweden, as the only country, voted against the fisheries agreement. But for this very reason Sweden must make further efforts to show the world and, above all, the Sahrawi people that we take this issue very seriously. The government could begin by pursuing the Parliament's 2012 decision and recognising the Sahrawi state. It would mean a lot to the Sahrawi people and significantly strengthen their position. The UN has failed in its mission and has failed to implement the agreed 1991 peace plan despite the fact that it has had almost 30 years. That is not acceptable. Those who pay the price for this are all the Sahrawi people who live during the occupation and are subjected daily to hatred, threats, harassment and imprisonment. It is the Sahrawi people who have been stuck in refugee camps in the Sahara desert for 45 years and who have increasingly lost faith in another future. Sweden must act in the UN and in the EU and through its bilateral contacts to ensure that the peace plan agreed by the parties is implemented as soon as possible so that the referendum takes place. Sweden must also demand that the mandate of the UN Force MINURSO be extended to include monitoring of human rights. There is no other solution but to go back to the original peace plan. But it is urgent to save lives and to avoid the war expanding.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-184	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Johnsson Fornarve mentions a few words about Tindouf and the refugees. I'd like to spend some time on that, too. I myself have visited the camps in Tindouf a number of times, so I know how the situation and living conditions are in the camps. It is not worthy to grow up under circumstances such as those of the Tindouf refugee camps. The frustration in the camps is growing, not least among the young people who are allowed to grow up there. Sweden has significant aid for the five camps. This year the aid amounts to just over SEK 26 million. Humanitarian aid is channelled mainly through Oxfam and UNHCR. The support aims to safeguard the food security of the Sahrawi refugees and strengthen their resilience to crises and disasters. We have also given special support to covid-19 to help prevent the spread of infection in the camps. With Swedish support Oxfam also works to strengthen local ownership and competence development. This action is mainly aimed at young women. Local committees have shown that support has been established to identify interventions based on the needs of the population. But a political solution requires more than humanitarian action. Therefore, Sweden also provides support to the Christian Peace Movement, for example, to strengthen networks and promote conflict management without violence and increase understanding of young people's rights in the Maghreb region. A long-term solution to this issue will require the resumption of the political process. Sweden will continue to assert the right of the Sahrawi people to self-determination. We will continue to support the UN. I would like to thank Lotta Johnsson for raising this important issue in an interpellation.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-191	Mr President, I would like to Maria Nilsson has asked me what measures the government intends to take to shed light on the case of Jurij Dmitrijev and how it intends to work on the case within international institutions. The government is pursuing a clear two-track policy towards Russia. In addition to our bilateral contacts, we regularly highlight violations of human rights in Russia within the EU, the OSSE, the UN and the Council of Europe. In these organisations, we are working to ensure that Russia meets its international legal and constitutional obligations. In the case of the Russian human rights defender and historian Jurij Dmitrijev, Sweden has acted both multilaterally and bilaterally. We have worked actively within the EU, the OSSE and the Council of Europe to pay attention to his case and ensure his immediate release. Bilaterally, our diplomatic missions in Russia, like myself, have been working on the case. Sweden was one of the first countries to condemn the supreme authority proclaimed against Dmitrijev in September. During my visits to St Petersburg in 2019 and Moscow in 2020, I met representatives of the Memorial organisation, which is working on research into the political repression one that took place in the Soviet Union. Jurij Dmitrijev, as you know, was chairman of Memorial's Karelian Department, and he has played an important role in clarifying crimes committed under the S talinera. In my contacts with Russian representatives, I have repeatedly stressed the importance of respect for human rights and the rule of law. During my meeting with Foreign Minister Lavrov in Moscow in February, I expressed concern about the development of Dmitrijev's case and the importance of a legally secure process. However, the case of Dmitrijev should not be seen as an isolated incident. It illustrates a negative trend in human rights and politically motivated legal action against human rights defenders and oppositionists in Russia. It is therefore also important to work on a broad and long-term basis to promote democratic development in Russia. In January, the government adopted a new strategy for Sweden's support for democracy, human rights and the environment in Russia for the period 2020 – 2024 of SEK 389 million. In the EU, Sweden has been at a disadvantage for human rights, democracy and the rule of law to remain an integral part of the formulation of the Union's principles in its relations with Russia. Sweden supports a balanced and principled implementation of the EU's five principles. The five principles include a principled approach to Russia's violation of international law and resilience to Russian interests and influence operations, combined with a selective engagement on issues where the EU has an interest and support for the democratisation of Russia. A key component of these five principles is contacts and support to Russian civil society. Both Sweden and the EU have comprehensive strategies for this purpose. Much of the support is directed at organisations active in the field of human rights in the country. One of the objectives of the support is to strengthen the capacity of the media and other organisations to provide independent information to the Russian public and to raise awareness of human rights. Part of this work is to identify and inform about violations of human rights committed during the Stalin era, something Dmitrijev has done courageously. The fall of Dmitrijev deserves our attention, and we will continue to be active in both the specific case and in our broad and sustained support for democratic development in Russia.
i-PjyhJtRFYZZ7UHYZ5dWdbA	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister Linde, for the answer to my interpellation! I am not unaware that there may be limitations in the scope of action for a foreign minister on issues such as these. Sometimes we may take these slightly activist Members a little lightly. Mr President, I would like to In April 2014, I was in a field outside Moscow. Under my feet were thousands of victims of the Stalin terror. They were murdered and threw into mass graves that were then filled up and fell into oblivion. Around it it was eerie quiet even though we were a group of over 20 people from my old workplace Forum for Living History. Such places are around Russia. It is impossible to know with certainty whether all mass graves have been found after the ravages of Stalin's terrorism, which peaked in 1934–1939. Jurij Dmitrijev is a Russian historian who dedicated his life to exposing the Stalin terror. He has focused on the places he knows best around Petrozavodsk in Russian Karelia. What he has done is to go through the archives of the Soviet era, expose the executioners of the NKVD and investigate the cases where people have been murdered. For a long time Jurij Dmitrijev has been the subject of harassment and persecution by the Russian state apparatus. In several rounds, charges have been brought with fabricated suspicions. The debtors whom Dmitrijev has made visible served in the security apparatus which today has changed its name but which has never recognised or settled its history. Mr President, I would like to This also testifies to something else – about the view of history and how it is used as a political tool today. In the book Putin's new Russia and the shadows of the past, journalist Shaun Walker writes about how Vladimir Putin has made it a political project to change history to use it to gain real political benefits. The Putin regime has mythologized the Second World War – or the great patriotic war, as it says in the Russian context – and its profit over fascism in its efforts to foment today's Russian empire dreams. Jurij Dmitrijev is not alone. Today history is used as a political tool for many authoritarian and semi-authoritarian regimes. That is why the case of Dmitrijev becomes even more important. He is the symbol of a history in which wrongs are exposed and in which states take, or should take, responsibility. Mr President, I would like to I welcome what Minister Linde says. Sweden has worked actively within the EU, within the OSSE and within the Council of Europe to pay attention to Dmitrijev's case. My question to the Government is therefore: what reactions has she had when she has raised these issues among other countries within these international institutions? And also what were the answers given in the bilateral dialogue that the Government has had with, among others, Foreign Minister Lavrov about this?
i-d45a73e0da08cada-209	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by saying that we are following developments in democracy, human rights and the rule of law in Russia very closely. The government has expressed concern about the loss of democratic space in the country. I myself have been following developments for a very long time and, like the interpellete, I am also keen for Russia to develop in a democratic direction. Therefore, the case of Dmitrijev must not be seen as an isolated incident. It is part of a negative trend in terms of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Russia. For several years, human rights defenders and oppositionists have been operating under very difficult conditions. Although Russia's Constitution guarantees the independence of the courts, human rights organisations report on how the judiciary is increasingly used for politically motivated legal action. Against this background, Russia cannot be regarded as a functioning rule of law. The judgment against Dmitrijev is very worrying. Here I would like to answer the question about the European Union. The EU has made a statement that the prosecution against him has been influenced by his research into the political repression of Stalin and his work on human rights. The EU has also repeatedly called for the immediate and unconditional acquittal of Dmitrijev. Both Swedish diplomats and the EU delegation in Moscow have followed Dmitrijev's case closely, and representatives of the EU have reported from Dmitrijev's trials. Both the EU and Sweden have therefore acted in this case. The EU also acted at the OSCE Permanent Council on 8 October in Vienna. There, the EU called on Russia to acquit Dmitrijev as a result of the inadequate legal procedure to which he has been subjected. The EU also called on Russia to ensure a fair trial for its citizens in accordance with its international commitments as a member of the OSSE. As incoming Chairman of the OSSE next year, I intend to continue to promote the organisation's broad concept of security, including issues of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. We have also acted within the Council of Europe to draw attention to shortcomings and violations in the area of human rights in Russia. The Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe has expressed concern about the fall of Dmitrijev and stressed the importance of Russia maintaining its international commitments. Both the EU and the Council of Europe have therefore acted in accordance with how Sweden views this. Russia is a member of the Council of Europe. It has been called upon by the Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights to adopt structural measures at political and legislative level. This would enable human rights defenders like Dmitrijev to carry out their work in the future without the risk of reprisals.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-218	Mr President, I would like to An internally increasingly repressive Russia is the result of an externally increasingly expansive Russia. Unfortunately, this is the real political reality that we are living in 2020. The Government notes that the case of Dmitrijev is not an isolated incident but should be put in context. I fully share that picture. It is a Russia that limits the scope for human rights and the ability of the opposition to operate. The Government also mentions the recently adopted Swedish strategy for Sweden's support for a democratic Russia and the work carried out within the framework of the EU. I want to stay with the democratic forces, something that the Government has also returned to. Jurij Dmitrijev was chairman of the local Memorial organization. Without them, much of Stalin's terrorism would still have been obscured. During the 1990s, when archives were opened in Russia, much of the foundation for Memorial's future work was laid. People like Irina Flige and Arsenij Roginskij are and have been priceless. But even organisations such as Memorial are now subject to increasingly repressive laws. They have been branded as so-called foreign agents, in other words the very symbol of going West's affairs and with evil intentions destabilising Russia from within. Mr President, I would like to Memorial works not only to expose the crimes of Stalin's terrorism. They also work for Russian teachers to have teaching materials and support to design history lessons that reflect something other than the corrected propaganda history that the Russian Ministry of Education is striving for. It is a question of shaping the Russian citizens of the future in the belief that rightful Russian victories in history justify, for example, the annexation of Crimea and other foreign policy ambitions. Mr President, I would like to During the Soviet Union, a type of homo-Soviet man was formed – a superman, so to speak. In today's Russia the same project is going on but based on some other ideological premise. I would like to ask the Government, Mr President, to develop how she will use platforms as an international body in the coming years to continue to pursue the issue of Jurij Dmitrijev, Memorial and the need for free and independent history writing in Russia.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-225	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's commitment to democracy, human rights and people-to-people relations with Russia is one of the strongest in the EU. Supporting and defending a wide range of civil society organisations and actors aims to strengthen human rights in Russia in the long term. Sweden, and also the EU, provide comprehensive support to Russian civil society. In January, as I said, we adopted a new strategy for democracy, human rights and the environment in Russia for 2020 – 24 with SEK 389 million. The strategy shall promote democratic development in Russia and contribute to strong freedom of expression and respect for human rights and the rule of law. The EU contributes to Russian civil society, including through its support to the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights. At the same time, I believe that the EU and its Member States can do more together to assist Russian civil society. The interpellant speaks of a history revisionism. I share that picture, especially when it is used for political purposes. A democratic Europe must continue to be based on a true picture of history so that our values and institutions are not undermined. Mr President, I would like to In addition to our multilateral efforts, the fall of Dmitrijev has consistently been raised at bilateral meetings with Russian representatives. When I visited Moscow in February, I met with opposition and civil society representatives to emphasise our support. During my meeting with Russia's Foreign Minister Lavrov, I also spoke about developments for Dmitrijev. I have also repeatedly publicly called for Dmitrijev immediate release of Dmitriyev. For example, Sweden was one of the first countries to publicly condemn the ruling against Dmitrijev delivered in September. When I visited Saint Petersburg last spring, I met representatives of civil society, including those from Memorial. It is, as the interpellant says, precisely those who are working on research into the political repression that took place in the Soviet Union during the Stalin era. Dmitrijev has long been active in Memorial and has played an immense role in the mapping of Stalinism's crimes. Our Embassy in Moscow and the Consulate General in St. Petersburg are closely following the situation of human rights defenders and oppositionists and have ongoing dialogue with their representatives. They also participate regularly in trials against human rights activists. The trial of Dmitrijev has been closely followed, and ongoing contacts have been held with Memorial's offices, both in St. Petersburg and Moscow.
i-DxmdsEiKPRHrvxBwHhqgEc	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. The Government concludes its first speech by saying that Sweden should be persistent, both in the individual case of Jurij Dmitrijev and in supporting democratic development in Russia. Of course, I agree with that. But developments in Russia are extremely worrying. This applies both in Russia and how Russia acts on the world political arena. Of course, Sweden cannot do everything. We are a single nation. But we can do something, and we can act within the framework of the institutions in which we operate. I trust, for example, that the Government will work for the rapid implementation of the Magnitsky laws in the EU. It would be a symbol that shows Russia that the EU takes the situation seriously and sharpens its actions and position vis-à-vis Russia. The development in Russia is not progressing. I'm afraid it's going backwards. I would like to conclude by calling on the Government to take advantage of the Presidency of the OSSE in front of Sweden. Many major issues there need a solution – not just there, but it is a channel – the illegitimate president of Belarus, the war in eastern Ukraine and so on. Don't forget Russia, don't forget Memorial, don't forget history and don't forget Jurij Dmitrijev!
i-d45a73e0da08cada-236	Mr President, I would like to The legal proceedings in Dmitrijev's case have been described by several international assessors as incomplete. No political government has the right to deny its citizens the right to speak and think freely. This means that as a researcher, regardless of academic field, individuals must be able to engage in their activities without fear of reprisals. This also applies, of course, to Jurij Dmitrijev. As the interpellier says, the scope for civil society has shrunk considerably in recent years, especially for organisations and individuals involved in defending political and civil rights. Similarly, the law on so-called foreign agents has considerably hampered the work of several civil society organisations. Repressive measures have led to an increase in the number of political prisoners in Russia. According to Memorial, Dmitrijev counts as one of them. We are concerned about developments in Russia and the dwindling scope for democracy in that country. We will, of course, follow developments in the case of Dmitrijev. We demand his immediate release and will continue our long-term work for the democratisation of Russia. The so-called Magnitsky laws, which can be seen as an opportunity for human rights sanctions, are being negotiated in Brussels. Sweden is very active in this work and of course positive towards it. We will not forget developments in Russia. We will not forget the case of Jurij Dmitrijev.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-242	Mr President, I would like to Boriana Åberg has asked me whether I intend to promote Taiwan's full participation in the WHO and other UN sub-agencies and, if so, what concrete steps I will take. Let me begin by pointing out that I share Boriana Åberg's view of the continuing seriousness of the coronapandemine worldwide. The government has made it clear from the outset that the pandemic can only be tackled through international cooperation. As I have previously announced to Parliament, the government's starting point is that we are working towards as broad and comprehensive a participation as possible in international cooperation. That also applies to Taiwan. Both Sweden and the EU have an interest in Taiwan participating in international organisations. As regards full participation in the UN, I would like to make it clear that membership of the UN is open to states. As only 15 countries in the world recognise Taiwan as a state, it is not possible for Taiwan to be voted in as a member. In addition, UN members are included on a proposal from the UN Security Council. As China has a veto right in the Security Council, there is no prospect of Taiwan being included as a full UN member. Nevertheless, Taiwan's participation in various contexts, such as aviation, health and trade, contributes positively and meaningfully to international cooperation. Taiwan is also a member of, for example, the World Trade Organisation, the Asian Development Bank and the International Olympic Committee. International work against the Corona virus is an example of an area where Taiwan's participation is reasonable and desirable. The government also continues to support Taiwan's participation in the WHO's health technology work, in the work against the coronapandemine as well as in other areas. The Government also supports the return of Taiwan as an observer at the WHO annual meeting, the World Health Assembly, which Taiwan did in 2009 – 2016. Meanwhile, the EU and Sweden are seeking practical solutions for how Taiwan can be incorporated into the work of the WHO. In Geneva, where the WHO is based, Sweden has regular contacts on WHO issues with Taiwan's representative offices, and we exchange ongoing information with other countries that also support Taiwan's participation in the work of the WHO. The government will continue to support Taiwan's opportunities to participate in international organisations.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-250	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It feels heavy to have this debate while the coronap addem continues to reap victims and people see their life's work go in decline. But in the deep shadow of the pandemic, Taiwan is a glimmer of light and hope. Taiwan is one of the few countries that have managed to manage the spread of the virus, even though half a million Taiwanese workers were working on the mainland while the virus broke out, and despite the large number of visitors from mainland China who used to come to Taiwan before it all began. As early as Christmas 2019, Taiwan's CDC noted that a previously unknown coronavirus spread in the Chinese city of Wuhan and acted immediately. Health checks on entry from China, Hong Kong and Macao were introduced. They combined health databases and travel data of different people and were able to effectively track the movement of the virus, and they could contact people who were feared to be infected. Taiwan has more than 23 million inhabitants. Until today, only 7 people have died of Corona. 611 have been infected, and about 500 of them have recovered. I wish that the Swedish government had acted just as quickly and decisively and started testing in Sweden this spring. Unfortunately, Taiwan's experience has not been spread as it should, as China is blocking Taiwan's participation in all UN sub-agencies, including the World Health Organisation. This reluctance to involve Taiwan in the exchange of experience in the field of health is detrimental to world health but also to the population of Taiwan. The fact is that the World Health Organisation is risking Taiwanese life by keeping the country out of its work. It is positive that the government supports Taiwan's return as an observer in the decision-making bodies of the World Health Organisation. It is even more positive that the EU and Sweden are looking for practical solutions on how to integrate Taiwan into the work of the World Health Organisation. The chances of success are much greater when Sweden acts together with other democracies. Many countries in addition to the EU countries want Taiwan to take its rightful place in the World Health Organisation – it is Canada, Japan, New Zealand, Australia and the United States. The Swedish government should hook its arm with these countries and push the issue hard. It is not right for China to dictate the terms. We must also be reminded of how the pandemic started and how the virus spread through Chinese markets, where live animals are treated terribly badly. They are kept in cages and sold to end up on the plate, not because of food shortages, but because it is a tradition. The tradition of eating bats stems from the famine in China, when 45 million people died of starvation. It was caused by the Communist regime and its contempt for man. We experienced the same contempt for people in January, when China tried to hide the virus outbreak.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-259	Mr President, I would like to As I said, Sweden has previously supported Taiwan's participation as an observer in the World Health Assembly meeting. The government's position has not changed. As I mentioned, Sweden has regular contacts on WHO issues with Taiwan's representation offices in Geneva, and we exchange ongoing information with other countries that also support Taiwan's participation in the work of the WHO. However, as Taiwan is not a UN member, Taiwan cannot join the World Health Organisation as a full member. They were able to participate from 2009 to 2016 in the WHO's highest decision-making body, the World Health Assembly. That participation was valuable, and I would welcome a development that allowed them to come back. But it requires consensus in the World Health Organisation, and there is no such consensus. We continue to support Taiwan's active participation in the WHO's health technology work in every way. It is regulated in different formal processes, but also through participation in various expert meetings. Taiwan has also long applied for permanent observership in ICAO – it is a special agency of the United Nations for Civil Aviation. But that has not been possible either. ICAO work will focus on air safety, air protection and the environment. Taiwan has significant aviation interests, and to the extent that its authorities can appropriately participate in and assimilate ICAO's work, this is supported by Sweden. All EU countries today have diplomatic relations with China, and everyone is following the so-called 'one China' policy. This means that we do not see any possibility of recognising Taiwan as a state. At the same time, Sweden has a vested interest in the fact that international cooperation on health issues, pandemic control and aviation safety works as comprehensively as possible. We therefore support Taiwan's meaningful participation in the WHO and other UN sub-agencies where participation does not require state status.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-265	Mr President, I would like to I agree with the rules preventing Taiwan from full membership of the UN, but I regret that. It was not that long ago that Taiwan was actually the representative of the Chinese people in the Security Council. It was only in 1971 that President Nixon and Mao Zedong settled and threw Taiwan out to put China in jail, which was a very unfortunate decision. I still find it very worrying that China should be allowed to dictate the conditions in the World Health Organisation. Despite efforts made by the government, the EU and other countries, Taiwan was not invited as an observer to the May meeting nor to the meeting that ended last week. It is also very uncomfortable that a UN body to promote human rights and cooperation excludes 23 million people when important issues are discussed, such as the important issue of health. I very much appreciate the Minister's support for Taiwan's participation as an observer in other sub-agencies, such as ICAO and the climate conference. Taiwan will of course have a place there too. These are global issues that need to be resolved globally. And Taiwan has its rightful place at the negotiating table. I'm going back to the World Health Organization. I wonder whether the government is planning to take some concrete steps, more than what the Minister has told us so far, to put an end to Taiwan's exclusion. I also wonder whether the government will initiate a reform of the World Health Organisation, whose actions have been submissive and under any criticism. Has the government expressed any criticism of the Secretary-General and Deputy Secretary-General of the World Health Organisation? It was very strange that Secretary-General Tedros Ghebreyesus did not condemn China's actions in trying to conceal the infection. He even praised China's actions and said that he would like to be treated in China if he received covid-19. I do not know if the Minister has the opportunity to see the interview with Bruce Aylward, Vice-General of the World Health Organisation, where he refuses to answer the question of Taiwan's participation in the World Health Assembly and then throws the telephone in the ear of the interviewing journalist. It's very telling, and that clip has become viral on the Internet. I think it is a great scandal that the World Health Organisation bows down to China and excludes Taiwan to please China. I strongly believe that Sweden should initiate a review of the rules of the World Health Organisation, because the pandemic is not over, and Taiwan's expertise is needed.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-274	Madam President, I would like We do not get away from the fact that this is simply about the relationship between Taiwan and China. During a period between 2008 and 2016, Taiwan and China had a relatively good relationship, which was reflected in Taiwan being invited to participate in the World Health Assembly as an observer from 2009. This was welcomed by the EU. We would welcome a situation in which Taiwan is once again invited to participate as an observer. It is important that specialist bodies and board meetings should also be allowed to devote the meetings to substantive issues and not just to political conflicts. The experts representing Sweden and other countries are there to speak for us and to listen and learn in matters of substance, where both they and the principals are specialists. China has changed its position on Taiwan's participation in international cooperation, and we can only regret that. It is unfortunate for all of us when it takes this kind of expression, given our starting point that we are working for as broad and comprehensive participation as possible in international cooperation. Sweden has been very clear with regard to the WHO with what we think, and we have also been in favour of the evaluation to be carried out by the WHO on the basis of how it has acted in relation to the pandemic.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-278	Madam President, I would like I agree with the Minister that the World Health Organisation should not be made an arena for political conflicts, but should work hard for world health. It is very regrettable that China is striking political coin of its economic influence around the world and trying improperly to influence the work of the World Health Organisation as well. The Coronapandemy has had a huge impact on the global economy, security and many other areas. We cannot afford to omit Taiwan if we are to act globally. The virus doesn't respect any boundaries. It's spreading everywhere. Most likely, the coronapandemy is not the last pandemic that mankind will experience, and so we need a strong and functional world health organisation – an organisation worthy of the name. I therefore hope that the evaluation of how we have acted now will be a good starting point for much better work and cooperation between all the nations of the world in the future. Having an organization that crawls for dictatorships is no use. We need an organisation that protects cooperation between countries. That is precisely why the organization is called the United Nations and not the Excluding Nations. Taiwan is a stable democracy that really deserves Sweden's and the outside world's support to take its rightful place in organisations such as the World Health Organisation, ICAO and the climate conference.
i-d45a73e0da08cada-282	Madam President, I would like It is regrettable that China is trying to limit Taiwan's freedom of movement. Sweden and the EU have an interest in Taiwan's participation in international organisations and international expert bodies, such as the WHO. The contradictions between China and Taiwan must be resolved peacefully and in a manner consistent with the will of the people of Taiwan. Taiwan, as the interpellier says, is a well-developed democracy with good respect for human rights. It is very gratifying that last year Taiwan was the first in Asia to adopt legislation that legalises same-sex marriages. The conditions for an increased exchange between Sweden and Taiwan are in areas such as trade, research and culture. From the government's side, we want to continue to develop relations with Taiwan. Our good relations with Taiwan have developed over many years in a number of areas. By way of example, I can mention the annual inter-Commission meetings at the level of state secretarials held by Sweden and Taiwan since the 1980s. With regard to other exchanges, I can mention that last year my colleague Matilda Ernkrans, Minister for Higher Education and Research, received the Minister for Research of Taiwan. In 1991, the Swedish Export Council opened an office in Taipei, where Business Sweden today conducts important work for Swedish trade interests. Let us therefore hope that our work to get Taiwan back into all parts of the WHO will bear fruit!
