i-4b7316b9b5dd5b95-11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. It's been a tough night in many ways. There are many of us who have been awake to follow what is happening across the Atlantic. I guess that makes you a little mushy. I've slept badly for another reason, too. Yesterday, shortly after I left my hometown of Borås, a shooting took place right where the train passes. Of course, no definitive conclusions can be drawn, but we can see that a young person with previous links to gang criminals was shot in the open street in central Borås yesterday. His life couldn't be saved. This is another waste of life in the spiral of violence that has struck our country and that plagues us – the scourge we see. At home we have been able to see this escalation for a long time. Incidents that may at first appear trivial have been followed by acts of violence and denouncing. A little rough shots in the air have been followed by shootings at people. A hairdresser is shot when it was probably the customer who was the target. We see how the violence gets rougher and rougher in a spiral of violence. Houses and restaurants under fire. This has happened in the last month in my hometown of Borås. It is, of course, too far to say that all of this is definitely connected. The justice chain has to do its best to sort this out and assess what is going to happen. But we see that many have seen this coming. And it's not unique. In hundreds of cases in our country, people's lives are extinguished at the end of these senseless spirals. We in this House, which we have talked about many times, are in complete agreement that this must be brought to an end. We must be extremely clear. We Social Democrats repeatedly say that we will never give up the fight against serious crime and the struggle to get rid of the breeding ground for these serious crimes – the breeding ground where serious crime and exclusion flourish. We will never give up the fight against the crimes and their causes. It is no coincidence that the incident yesterday took place in Borås. We have two of the so-called particularly vulnerable areas in our country. Two out of twenty-six are in a city with 110 000 inhabitants. It is about segregated schools and housing environments, high unemployment and poor school outcomes. This is about genuinely failed integration. But these areas are also full of heroes who work compensatoryly in school and social services. It's about neighbors trying to resolve conflicts between people. But the destructive forces are strong. If you go into today's case, a parallel can also be drawn. In one of these areas, Hässleholmen, a terrible crime took place in 2017. A young man in his 20's was stabbed, and two other young men were very badly stabbed and floated between life and death but survived. In the District Court in autumn 2017, a life sentence was imposed on the person considered to be the principal in this act. The other persons were sentenced to 12 years. It is important to point out that the penalties for the two persons involved in the attempted murder and murder were tightened in the Court of Appeal. They got life, too. Of the 160 people who are currently in prison for life in Swedish institutions, 3 are linked to the single event. What happened to the area can be witnessed by many. I myself have talked to many people who say that it was like oxygen being added to the area when the main man who for many years had maintained a reign of terror in Hässleholmen was torn away. It can also be noted, after a report this week, that they have not been model prisoners in the prison either, but the list of violations and assault cases in the prison is also very large. I guess they're in the place where they deserve to be and where they get the best care they need. Today we are talking about the most severe punishment in the law. We are many experienced legal politicians in this room, and we know that it is not crucial whether it is 18 years in prison or life when you stand there high like a house, sweaty and scared with the gun in your hand, with missions to kill. It is quite other and much more powerful motives that make you decide one or the other. But we also know that there is an important signal value here. As you know, there has been a danger of sharp legislation. Now this is likely to land in an announcement. I would like to thank the opposition for listening to the views of the Legislative Council and the consultative bodies. There are, of course, some constitutional aspects that we have discussed at committee meetings when it comes to legislating in committees and bypassing the government. Views can be made on this. I believe that there may be an opportunity to do this in specific cases, if minor adjustments are to be made or there is political consensus on specific issues. Of course, this can be done. But here we are actually talking about the ultimate example of the state's practice of violence: to lock up a person for life for something it has done. The tool that the state has must be handled with care. As I said, I am grateful that the opposition has come to its senses and makes an announcement that I really think is entirely reasonable. It is kicking in an open door to say that we should evaluate the legislation and review and adjust if necessary. We agree that it should normally be life for murder; we have been for a long time. We want to wait – that is what gives rise to our reservation – the practical legal applications of the law that was actually introduced only on 1 January of this year. We need to see how the application of the law develops. The cases that exist indicate that we have listened to and seen the legislative tightening that we decided on in this House and which was introduced as late as January this year. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to endorse our reservation.
i-4b7316b9b5dd5b95-27	Madam President, I would like Many governments have tried and failed to tighten the penalty for murder in order to get the life sentence passed in more cases than is happening today. Failures have simply occurred because legislation is difficult. Courts judge according to the tough legislation decided by the Riksdag. And when it comes to the life sentence, Parliament has just done a tough piece of legislation. That also applies today. The courts have simply not been able to do what the legislator wanted. That's what happens sometimes. But what the Riksdag has done, with the help of the Moderates among other things, is that you put your head in the wall again and again and again. At the same time, it has been known that this work will not succeed. And here we stand today with a failed legislative attempt. Sentencing a person to a life sentence takes away every reason for that person to rehabilitate his criminal behavior. If you do not know how long you will be in an institution, there is no point in attending treatment programmes, training or working during the institution period. On the other hand, it is extremely much more motivating to know how long you should be in an institution. Then you can adjust and plan your treatment period accordingly. No one wants people with long sentences to continue their criminal lives. But then it is also up to the Riksdag to decide on the best conditions for this not to happen. It's not done today. The interest in rehabilitating and stopping crime is zero. However, it is a total focus on punishing without content. It is a mockery of victims when politicians do not care what happens to the convicted person after the sentence and when time and resources are not spent on making these men not murder again. It is about preventing gang crime through interventions in vulnerable areas that build a long-term safe society with school, social services and housing, or changing masculinity standards and men's aggressive behaviour that causes women to be abused, raped and murdered every day. But what is most spent on is locking these men up when they've already murdered and raped. I will use all my political time so that I can look citizens and victims in the eye and say that I did what I could to prevent crime and ensure that crime is not committed. But you from Social Democrats to Moderates put your burning energy on locking people up when it's already too late. Then you release them without giving them the opportunity not to continue their criminal lives. I support the reservation and the special opinion of the Left Party that the motion should be rejected and that the life sentence should be removed.
i-4b7316b9b5dd5b95-38	Madam President, I would like It's a special morning after a special night of waltz wake. I would like to say hello to Mrs Johanna, my colleague, who was unable to make it here today because of the pandemic in which we live. I have gone into this debate on short notice. Madam President, I would like In 2019, 28 000 cases of female abuse were reported to the police. You think it's about a quarter of all cases, because most people don't dare press charges. They do not see that there is any reason for the police to report it, for it still does not lead to conviction. One could say that another 100,000 women have been assaulted by someone close to them. In the worst cases – there were 16 such in 2019 – women did not survive the beatings of their husbands. Not being safe in one's own home is probably one of the worst things you can experience. Imagine not having a place to go where there is a quiet corner where you can rest! Imagine coming every day to a home where violence may come to you! Not infrequently, there is a child who witnesses these crimes. Not infrequently, there have been one or more children who have seen a partner or former partner murder the mother. Madam President, I would like How do you heal such wounds? We are currently living in a very difficult time with a pandemic that has forced people all over the world to stay very much in their homes. We also see a brutal increase in cases of violence in close relationships. We have to work a lot to prevent the children from being stuck in these destructive relationships at home, where there are no vents for the children to go to. To a large extent, we in Sweden have chosen to keep schools open. Everyone should have a safe place to go every day. When such serious crimes occur, Madam President, there must be life sentences on the scale of penalties. Like most other parties debating here today, the Green Party has supported this. The legislative change that was made and that came into force in January 2020, we hope, will bring in precisely this: S is especially true when there have been serious crimes, such as murder, will be life sentences imposed. It's also about the victims. There's never a way to make up for someone who's lost their mother. But they shouldn't have to meet this person out on the street or be forced to be with that person. Madam President, I would like We think it is a good thing that the opposition has backed up on moving forward with a change in law. We believe that we must first see how the legislative change that came into force in January 2020 will come to an end. We are also prepared to review this if it is not to be filled. With those words, Madam President, I am in favour of our reservation.
i-4b7316b9b5dd5b95-48	Madam President, I would like We have a situation in Sweden with an escalating gang crime as recently as today, as has been described in this pulpit. What just a few years ago had meant extra broadcasting on television today has become everyday life. No longer does anyone seem to care so much. Shootings, blastings and gang killings are part of reality in 2020. No one wants it to be like that, but I think it's very hard to deny that it's actually where we've ended up. There were new numbers yesterday about the number of shootings. You can see that they continue to rise from an already very high level. What previously happened only in certain specific areas of Sweden has today spread and developed to be a part of our entire society, whether it concerns Norrland or southern Sweden, big cities, smaller cities or medium-sized communities. Unfortunately, we have to say that we are in this situation. It's not just the shootings that are going the wrong way. Whatever parameter you look at, it is difficult to find an analogue country in Europe that has this kind of problem. We often compare ourselves to Germany. In Sweden, the number of shootings per capita is ten times higher than the situation in Germany. Let it sink in for a second, my friends: There are ten times more shootings in Sweden than in Germany! The shootings are increasing, the explosions are increasing, the shootings are increasing, the number of people in criminal gangs is increasing. The only thing that is falling in Sweden is the number of police officers in external service. Today, they are fewer than they were ten years ago. There's a receipt for this government's work. Now you're in your seventh year of government. The government is always happy to blame someone else and shift responsibility to other parties or persons. But seven years, my friends, is a long time in politics and in a society. Madam President, I would like There is a great deal that needs to be done here. It is not the number of words in this House that will change the situation. It's not the number of press hits either, for that matter. There are press meetings about gang crime every day. Without what can really change things and give people hope again – make them feel that it doesn't have to be this way – concrete political reforms are. Of course, hope for the best, but it's not enough. There I call for greater crisis awareness and, above all, a higher political tempo and greater political momentum in the area by area. Otherwise, there is the risk that we will have to stand in this Chamber on more occasions in the future and say how difficult and how bad it is. We agree on this, but perhaps there is a risk that it will be even worse then if reforms are not taken now. Madam President, I would like This report deals specifically with the life sentence for murder. This is a matter that has been going on for a number of years in Parliament. The problems have been that the legislation that has been developed in several ways has not been sufficiently clear. This lack of clarity has meant that the courts have not applied what was meant by the legislation. The consequence has been then. When we have looked at the change, we have identified a new risk of this kind when you include the descriptions in the preparatory work rather than in the specific legislation. There is a risk that this will not have the effect we want, namely that the normal punishment for murder will be life imprisonment. You can also look at the sentences that have come in the near future, where you can note examples that the punishment has not become life imprisonment. We find this remarkable and problematic. For our part, we have identified two areas where this is particularly important. It is partly about what I started by mentioning, namely gang-related crime, and partly about murder in close relationships. There too, unfortunately, are too many murders. Of course, it can be said that this is only symbolic, as we have heard said from the speaker's seat. But I don't think it's symbolic. There is a huge difference between being sentenced to life imprisonment and having a sentence of say 15 years and then being released after two thirds of the time. Not least in the gang-criminal environments, it is about individuals who have an enormous amount of violent capital and who have absolutely no blockage or respect for other people's lives. For them, it will be considerably more difficult to commit new crimes and create new victims if they are behind bars instead of being free and able to move around in society. In addition, the victim perspective is added. Who's thinking about the victims? For them, it is not only symbolic to know that the person who may have snatched a loved one from them is in prison and not in the streets. It can make a huge difference to the feeling that justice has been done. Madam President, I would like We are several parties that have tried to correct this, so that we will not have more such problems in the future, by making sharp legislation and directly adding to the legislative text the two parameters I mentioned, namely murder in gang-related environments and murder in close relationships. This went to the Law Council, and one can well say that there was a lot in what the Law Council wrote that I thought strengthened our description of things. However, the Council felt that the entry into force of the new legislation had been too short a time. I suppose you can understand that. We will follow these developments closely. However, I am a little concerned when I recapitulate the discussion on this and recall all the words that have been said about what we have tried to do, namely to bring about sharp legislation in committee. There have been quite heated discussions on this point. It was almost the case that the whole democracy was hanging by a thread there for a while. Consider my surprise when the very same parties who had so much difficulty in making sharp laws in the committee just a few weeks later put their own sharp legislation before the committee but then around detentions. It is a very creative view of this with principles. If one is to be credible in terms of principles, one must stick to the principles even when it may not be appropriate for one. Otherwise, you just become an opportunist. Then you don't have a principle. You just jump back and forth all the time. That does not inspire much confidence, Madam President. We will continue to follow this matter. I am pleased that there is a majority in this House for an announcement that the government should be given the task of monitoring developments and ensuring that it really is what we want, that the normal punishment for murder should be life imprisonment. We've identified a number of risks. We think that there are already examples of this. That is why I am pleased that the announcement exists. I find it remarkable that several parties are voting against it, but I assume that the government takes the announcement seriously and is a little on the toes here, so that we do not continue to have a situation where unfortunately many of the perpetrators can commit a crime as serious as murder and still not get the punishment they actually deserve.
i-4b7316b9b5dd5b95-68	Madam President, I would like Confidence in the rule of law is under pressure. In many places in our elongated land, insecurity is creeping ever closer, and in some places it is acutely present. It affects our everyday lives, our lives and our opportunities to do what we want and what we want. It makes us choose other ways than the nearest one and prevents us from enjoying the protection of the rule of law by feeling, unfortunately for quite good reasons, obliged to refrain from upholding our legal rights in many different ways. Witnesses are threatened with silence. Criminals claim to rule local communities, establish roadblocks and cause it to all those who only want to live their lives in peace and freedom. It seems to me in many places that the distance to the police, and perhaps to the majority society at all, is too great, and in many places the purely physical distance is certainly contributing to the same feeling – where citizens' lives, health, freedom and property are to be protected by a single police patrol in an area as large as Denmark and where criminal investigations are closed before they have barely started. It is said that it is in b rit on stakeouts, although the description, registration number and perhaps mobile images are available. Anyone who is working hard to create a viable business, for the benefit not only of himself but also of everyone else, is often exposed to crime to such an extent that it is at risk of fatigue. However, a great deal is being done to change and improve. The problem is that there is no clear direction for that work. We are many parties here in the Riksdag that are working on from our respective sides and are developing new ideas, developing and conducting debate. But we do it as individual islands rather than as a united force against crime. We are running in different directions, while we should tackle insecurity in a coordinated and planned manner. Legal policy is therefore less effective than it could be and, Madam President, what it would need to be. The government claims to rule the country. Then it is also up to the government to build such a strong confidence in its policy that it can be implemented. Perhaps it was precisely the lack of sufficient trust that caused some of the friends and colleagues in the Committee on Justice to feel such a strong frustration at the state of things that they chose to break the order that normally applies in order to get our laws in place properly. Around this, I'll admit, I had very strong feelings. In spite of all the warnings, to make such an extremely sensitive issue as the life sentence, the most intervention that the state takes the right to do to an individual, to an experimental workshop, is, to put it bluntly, irresponsible. I shared the concern that the new law, which says that life imprisonment should be the main rule of murder, would not hit violence in close relationships even though the pre-works indicated that this would be the case. It was also very important that the deeply serious gang violence should be addressed. My proposal was therefore that we should announce precisely the importance of these two tranches really becoming the basis for the new penalty measurement and ensure a broad majority and consensus in the Swedish Parliament that we wanted to achieve exactly that. There would thus be no doubt in the courts or others as to what Parliament's opinion is about how to impose punishment for murder. A year later, after hundreds of hours of hard, laborious and totally unnecessary work by our valiant committee office, that is exactly what we are doing.
i-4b7316b9b5dd5b95-78	Madam President, I would like One of the basic tasks of the state is to ensure that citizens are safe. One should be able to trust that the police will come when you alert. When people are subjected to violent crime, robbery, sexual harassment or burglary in their homes, the judiciary must act. A functioning judicial society requires that those who break the law be prosecuted and punished. The focus of the Christian Democrats in recent years has been to tighten the penalties for a variety of crimes, with a focus on serious violent crimes. The intention is to restore victims, protect law-abiding citizens from criminals and punish offenders. In recent years, 15 to 20 women a year have been murdered by men with whom they have or have had a relationship. The murders have usually been preceded by violence, abuse and threats. According to the Crime Prevention Council, 80% of fatal violence against women takes place in the homes of one of the people involved or in the common home – that is, where one should be safest. There are also children who are forced to witness this violence. We Christian Democrats see that a serious crime such as the murder of a loved one to a greater extent than is currently the case should lead to life sentences. For a long time, we can also see how violence related to gangs has escalated both in scale and in ruthlessness. Mortal shootings and explosions have increased, and innocent people are also increasingly at risk of being affected in our society. As mentioned earlier, as late as last night a 25-year-old man was shot dead on open street in Borås in what seems to be a gang-related act. It is unacceptable that these acts take place and that, in addition to the tragedy of life being extinguished, it also endangers ordinary citizens in our society. The Christian Democrats believe that those who commit crimes within the framework of organised crime must receive considerably increased penalties and that killings related to gang crime should also provide a basis for life sentences. Madam President, I would like The intention of the Riksdag has been for a long time that the punishment for murder should lead more to life imprisonment. We see this in decisions from both 2009 and 2014. The purpose of the 2014 amendment was that the life sentence could be used to a much greater extent than before and that life imprisonment would be a normal punishment and sentenced in a majority of cases. However, review in the Supreme Court has shown that legislative changes made did not change the conditions. In practice, the amendment of the 2014 Act was ineffective. Therefore, in the spring of 2017, the Riksdag issued an announcement to the Government to return to Parliament with a new legislative proposal. The notice stated that the life sentence for murder should be used to a much greater extent than in the past and should be the ordinary sentence in a majority of cases. In the Bill Penalty for Murder, which also became law on 1 January this year, the government proposed a tightening up of the penalty for murder. The proposal provided for five different circumstances to be specifically taken into account as a reason for life imprisonment in the provision on murder. The purpose of the amendment is to enable the life sentence to be considered to a much greater extent than before. Although we Christian Democrats see the change of law as a step along the way, we believe that it does not sufficiently meet the need we see in terms of punishment for murder. We therefore support the fact that the penalty for murder should be supplemented by two additional circumstances which should be taken into account in particular as grounds for life imprisonment. According to the Supreme Court ruling, the 2014 reformulation of the legislative text did not change the legal situation. Against this background, we also see that it is important that crimes against relatives are explicitly included in the list of circumstances to be considered as grounds for life imprisonment for murder. The Christian Democrats believe that those who commit crimes within the framework of organised crime must receive considerably increased penalties. In our world around us, there are many successful examples of this. In Denmark, for example, there is the possibility of imposing double penalties on those who commit crimes within the framework of organised crime. In the United States, there is the system of RICO laws that has been crucial to tackling serious organised crime with considerably increased penalties. An aggravating circumstance of organised crime already exists in the Criminal Code. We believe, however, that it is far from sufficient. The penalties for organised crime need to be substantially tightened. We therefore share the view that one way to emphasise that gang-related murders should involve life imprisonment is to add the wording of Chapter 29. the criminal code in the enumeration of circumstances to be taken into account in particular as grounds for life imprisonment for murder; Madam President, I would like Men's violence against women and violence in close relationships is a serious social problem that causes great suffering to many. Crime not only affects victims but also affects others, such as children who witness domestic violence. In addition, the crime is often committed in your own home, a place where everyone should have the right to be safe. As I mentioned earlier, it is a fact that deadly gun violence in criminal settings has increased significantly in Sweden in recent times. Violence is increasingly practiced outdoors in urban environments, where outsiders are at great risk of harm. This trend towards increasingly serious gang crime, not least in socially vulnerable areas, is very worrying and must be reversed. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats share the concerns expressed that, without supplementing the provision on the punishment of murder, there is a risk that crimes against family members committed in the home and gang killings committed on the street will not lead to life imprisonment. The Legislative Council has argued that the proposed change should not be implemented until the application of the most recent amendment has been analysed. This leads us to accept that we should not add to a sharp proposal at the moment. As the announcement states, however, we see that the government must closely follow the developments in case law regarding the punishment for murder. If it turns out that deadly violence against relatives and gang-related murders does not lead to life imprisonment to a much greater extent than before, the government should return without delay to Parliament with a new bill that ensures that this is the case.
i-4b7316b9b5dd5b95-97	Madam President, I would like We have today to debate the Committee on Justice's report 5 A stricter approach to the handling of weapons and explosives. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved and for the amendment to be accepted. Madam President, I would like The existence and use of illegal weapons and explosives in society is a serious social problem. Crime Prevention Council statistics show that the number of reported offences against the Arms Act has continued to increase in 2018 and 2019. The same applies to the number of complaints concerning illegal possession of, for example, a gun and a revolver. Brå's statistics also show that the number of cases of deadly violence involving firearms has continuously increased since 2011, from 17 cases in 2011 to 45 cases in 2019. In addition, firearms are by far the most common method of violence when it comes to deadly violence in the event of conflict in the criminal environment. At the same time, according to statistics from the Swedish Police Authority, the number of shootings in Sweden is largely the same as in 2017, which is an unacceptable level. In the case of explosives, there are clear indications that criminal groupings have access to such goods to a greater extent than in the past and also a greater tendency to use them. This development is confirmed by the fact that in 2019 there have been more blasts in Sweden than any previous year in modern times. In other words, there are very good reasons to look even harder at, above all, the serious forms of weapons offences and offences against the authorisation of explosives, i.e. types of crime that are common in the criminal environment. Madam President, I would like Already in 2010, we pushed Social Democrats to reduce the number of illegal weapons. At that time, we, together with the Skåne police, demanded that the minimum penalty for serious gun crimes be raised – this to provide the police with better tools to combat that crime through, for example, telephone tapping. At the same time, we pushed for special criminal liability for those who illegally store firearms for others. It is therefore a good thing and necessary thing to do with the tightening up that has been done. This applies, in particular, to the strengthening of the penalty for illegal possession of arms to two years. In practice, this means that if you go out on the street with an illegal weapon, you won't be home for at least two years. The tightening up of legislation has led to a significant increase in the average prison sentences imposed for weapons offences and serious weapons offences. In addition, in 2018 and 2019 the number of detainees for weapons offences has been five times higher than in 2017. As I said, this is good but not enough. Madam President, I would like The proposal we are debating today means that further steps are being taken in the fight against illegal weapons. The grounds for the qualification of serious and particularly serious weapons offences and offences against the authorisation requirement for explosives shall be extended and the maximum penalties for particularly serious offences shall be increased. A specific regulation on arms smuggling and the smuggling of explosives is also to be introduced under the Smuggling Act. The scale of penalties for the new offences shall correspond to the scale of penalties for weapons offences and the violation of the authorisation requirement for explosives. These are welcome steps and improvements, and it is positive that the bill has broad support in this House. Madam President, I would like Today's report contains three announcements. The committee supports one of them, namely the criminalisation of trials, preparation and conspiracy of offences against the authorisation of explosives. In the past, the scale of penalties for breaches of the authorisation requirement for explosives was significantly lower. Until 2017, for example, the minimum sentence for a serious crime was six months in prison, and there was no particularly serious crime. In order to increase the possibilities of preventing these crimes as early as possible, we also see a point in criminalising even trials, preparation and conspiracy. However, in accordance with the corresponding provisions of the Arms Act, we believe, first and foremost, that this criminalisation should relate to serious crime and particularly serious crime. Furthermore, a majority in the committee believes that more severe penalties and additional qualifications are at risk of affecting the legal owners of arms who are guilty of mishandling their weapons. They therefore believe that a clearer distinction should be made in arms legislation between the handling of illegal weapons in what can be described as criminal environments and the mishandling of weapons used for hunting and shooting where the wrongdoer has or has been licensed for the weapon to which the offence relates. The latter case should typically be seen as minor in comparison with the illegal possession of weapons in a criminal environment. Madam President, I would like In order to be tried for serious weapons offences or for serious weapons offences, that is to say, the rules we are discussing today, where the grounds for qualification are extended, a firearm must be deliberately held without being entitled to it or transferred or lent to someone who is not entitled to hold it. Therefore, anyone who is only negligently guilty of weapons offences cannot be convicted of serious weapons offences and thus not be subject to the increased qualification grounds. In addition, the standard-grade arms crime rule contains two scales of penalties. If you are guilty of intentional crime, you can be sentenced to imprisonment for a maximum of three years, but if the act has been committed negligently, the same scale of penalties applies as for minor gun crimes, i.e. fines or imprisonment for six months – the same as for shoplifting. So for those guilty of negligent weapons crimes, the same scale of punishment applies as for shoplifting. Any reason why the person guilty of intentional weapons offences, either through possession without a valid licence or by handing over or lending his weapon to someone who is not entitled to hold the weapon, would not be subject to the ordinary arms crime rules because he is a hunter or a sportsman is not presented in the report. Of course, an overall assessment is always made of all the circumstances, both extenuating and aggravating, when assessing whether a weapon offence is serious. We therefore find it difficult to understand the reasons for the announcement. In addition, Madam President, there are already two announcements concerning separate arms laws that are currently being prepared in the Government Office. Madam President, I would like The third notice calls for the introduction of a new qualification basis in the Fire- and Explosives Act, whereby the possession of bombs and other explosives in public places should, as a general rule, be assessed as a particularly serious breach of the authorisation requirement for explosives. As stated in the bill, as always in the case of qualification grounds, an assessment of all circumstances must be made. There is therefore currently room for the courts to take account of the fact that a bomb has been held in public places. Explosive goods can also be of very different hazards. Today, everything from hand grenades to gunfire is covered by regulation. In our opinion, against these backgrounds, among other things, there are insufficient grounds for the Riksdag to make such an announcement as the motionaries demand.
i-4b7316b9b5dd5b95-113	Madam President, I would like What is good about the bill is that it is a question of tightening up the rules and penalties for weapons offences and explosives. It is good that the government has listened to the opposition, which in a large majority in the Riksdag has made an announcement on the issues and has now received a bill on the table for preparation. This is therefore a case of increased penalties for weapons offences and of increased penalties for smuggling and possession of explosives. But somewhere we can probably stay with the praises, because although Joakim Sandell raised how important it is that we really tighten the penalties for the serious weapons crimes, the government's proposal is that we raise them by just one year, from six years to seven years. It is not a large or particularly powerful measure by the government, and this has been clearly written by several opposition parties in their reservation. Why does the government not want to press for the serious criminals who have illegal weapons and do serious weapons crimes harder? Why do you settle for just one year? Criminals who use illegal weapons for the purpose of harming and threatening human lives should be punished considerably more severely than with a maximum sentence of only seven years. Madam President, I would like A clear majority in the committee would also like to see breaches of the authorisation requirement for explosives criminalised already at the trial, preparation and settlement stage and addressed a new announcement to the government on this matter. We also want to see a clearer legislative change, where the possession of bombs and other explosives in public places as a general rule should lead to the crime being considered particularly serious and leading to imprisonment for at least four years. Let us be clear: we want to stop criminals from possessing and moving with explosives in society. Madam President, I would like Curiously, the government parties S and MP have a reservation and a dissenting opinion on this. They do not support the majority's proposal for a tougher fight against this crime. Once again, it is surprising that the government is taking such a passive and pale position in pushing for serious crime. Why should gross criminals be able to walk around with explosives in our streets and squares? Madam President, I would like What is also not good in the bill is the government's constant hunt to worsen and make it more difficult for the country's legal hunters and shooters. The changes in arms legislation to tackle criminals and their serious crimes involving illegal weapons are in danger of infecting the country's legal hunters and shooters, which must certainly not happen. This has been observed and clearly highlighted by a large majority of opposition in the report by pointing out that this new legislation should not be allowed to affect the legal hunters and shooters of the country and their licence applications. Madam President, I would like Once again, the Riksdag is waiting for this government to deliver the proposals and decisions we have taken in the past. On 19 June 2019, i.e. just over a year ago, a large majority in the Riksdag decided that the Government would implement the following seven announcements: In June 2020, the Parliament took eight more decisions on announcements to facilitate our legal hunters and shooters. At that time, the Riksdag requested, among other things, the following from the Government. We're looking for a new crime classification for arms smuggling. We therefore want to clarify and tighten up the legislation on arms smuggling so that we can stop the illegal introduction of weapons into the country. This is not delivered. We want it to be investigated and carried out a transfer of licensing from the police to the new Wildlife Agency. This proposal would reduce police work and thus free up resources for greater law enforcement. There's nothing delivered here. We proposed a review of the processing times. Today, they are unacceptably long and create problems for both hunters and shooters and arms dealers. Nothing's been delivered. We asked for a review of the arms legislation. It was an announcement in June 2019 that was repeated in 2020. Nothing's been delivered. We also asked for the EU directive to be implemented with the least possible impact on a minimum level for the country's hunters, shooters and collectors. Nothing's been delivered. We want to remove the time-limited licenses. They only create extra jobs and red tape, both for the police and for the country's sportsmen. The police handle 3 000 – 4 000 such cases a year. Nothing's been delivered. We want to remove exceptional reasons and instead specify the requirements clearly. It would clarify the requirements and facilitate the work of the authority currently dealing with licensing cases. Not surprisingly, nothing is delivered. We wanted to simplify the licensing process when weapons change. To be able to change their weapons directly with the arms dealer would reduce red tape and procedural matters. If you get there with a shotgun and want to trade it into another shotgun or switch to another weapon within your gun wardrobe, you should be able to do so immediately, without long processing times. Today, the police handle 70 000 - 80 000 arms licensing cases per year. It would make it easier both for the police and for the country's hunters and sportsmen if the possibility existed to exchange weapons directly with the arms dealer. Here, too, nothing is delivered. Madam President, I would like The government's obvious ignorance, inability and, above all, unwillingness to implement what has been decided by the Committee on Justice and Parliament's announcements are continuing. The government's ignorance, inability and unwillingness are clearly reflected in this report. We from the opposition – a broad opposition of Moderates, Center Partyists, Christian Democrats, Swedish Democrats and Left Partyists – have now seen how new arms legislation on a point-by-point basis can make it harder and harder to be hunters and shooters in our country. When the regulations change, this means that bureaucracy increases and license processing times risk becoming longer for our legal hunters and shooters in Sweden. Madam President, I would like A clear majority in the committee is now addressing this problem and the report points out that the new arms legislation is designed to tackle the serious criminals, their shootings and their illegal possession of arms. The new legislation will not affect the country's legal hunters and shooters. At the same time, a large majority – except when the government parties – realise that stricter arms laws and punitive scales are at risk of contracting themselves on hunters' and shooters' possession, which is not the aim. In order to eliminate these effects now and for the future, a large majority in the committee wants to try to implement a division into arms legislation so that stricter arms laws will not in future affect the country's hunters and shooters. We want to see a distinction and a clearer distinction in arms law between illegal weapons in criminal environments and legal weapons handled by hunters and shooters. I am very pleased that we have such a great unity around this in the Swedish Parliament. However, I am very surprised that the government parties, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, do not support this, but rather are opposed to this proposal in committee. That reservation by the government parties clearly exposes the dark intentions of the government. The government has, in every proposal and in every proposal, deliberately tried to make it worse and more difficult for the country's hunters and shooters. Why does the government want to continue hunting the country's hunters and shooters? Put that power on the gross criminality instead! Madam President, I would like The reservation against the division of arms legislation clearly shows that the government parties do not want to make it easier for the country's hunters and shooters, which is very remarkable. Again and again trying to impair the country's hunters and shooters is also contrary to many of the announcements on the arms side that the Parliament has addressed to the government. A division of arms legislation would allow us to legislate on even tougher penalties for the illegal handling of weapons in criminal settings without this tightening up of legislation impairing the conditions for the country's legal hunters and shooters. It is absolutely unbelievable that the Social Democrats and the Green Party are opposed to this proposal. Instead, they should have thanked the opposition for the proposal and ensured its immediate implementation. Madam President, I would like Sweden currently has Europe's toughest arms legislation, and that is a good thing. We require training, completed and approved tests and suitability. We have strict storage requirements, and in addition, the country's legal arms owners are controlled daily digitally. Sweden has more than 600 000 gun owners. It's hunters, collectors and sportsmen. These people are now seriously beginning to sadden the government's efforts in bill after bill to worsen and complicate today's hunting and shooting activities. What if the government had spent the same amount of time and effort to get the illegal weapons and criminals out of our streets and squares and, in addition, to ensure that these serious criminals have been locked up for a long time and not just raised the penalty by a year? Madam President, I would like The fact that the government is trying to act by trying to push the country's legal hunters and shooters is hardly very impressive. Instead, that power should have been spent by the government on the serious criminals. After all, the fact that the government continues to obstinate and ignore announcements is totally unacceptable. It has now been just over five years since the government was commissioned to establish a new game agency that would handle hunting and game conservation in Sweden. Despite this long time, the government has delivered nothing on this. That it should be prepared at the Government Office seems quite unlikely – in that case, it is probably time for the government to raise the person who is working on this issue. Now it must be finished at the department; now we are actually expecting delivery on this issue. Madam President, I would like We want the new Wildlife Agency in place, and we also want to move arms licensing from the police to this new authority. It would further refine the police's activities. Madam President, I would like The Parliament has previously issued fifteen announcements concerning hunting and shooting activities. Today, the Riksdag has issued three more announcements. This means that the government should immediately start working on the issues and start delivering. Madam President, I would like It is time to set a larger alarm clock at Rosenbad that will wake the government up and start working on these announcements immediately. If the government continues to obstinate and does not implement announcements that have been decided upon by the Riksdag, the opposition may of course take a discussion about moving forward with the proposals directly in this House and instead of directing announcements to the government, start to enact the laws directly here in Parliament without interference from the government. This is quite possible and will of course have to be considered. Madam President, I would like I have, once again, an appeal to the government to set up the Wildlife Agency immediately! It is five years since this decision was taken. Remove the time-limited weapons licences and the concept Initiate an investigation into weapons law immediately! I can help the government with both the directives and with the names that need to be included in that investigation. Remove the permission requirements for silencers! Implement the Weapons Directive at a minimum level! Madam President, I would like Now the government must wake up and start working on what the Riksdag has actually decided on. I would like to thank you very much for your very good cooperation in the Committee on Justice. Finally, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 3.
i-4b7316b9b5dd5b95-145	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2, that is done. Madam President, I would like The number of shootings continues to increase as the criminal gangs settle up on our streets. Every single shooting is, of course, a failure for our society. While violence has increased, there have been increasing numbers of innocent people who had nothing to do with gang settlements. The gangs simply do not care in what environment they fire their illegal weapons or who gets hit, if they achieve their goals. They don't even hesitate to shoot a woman holding her baby in her arms. Let me be clear, Madam President, that there is no doubt that these are people who should not have access to either weapons or explosives. They need to be disarmed as soon as possible. However, we should not unnecessarily complicate the legal ownership of arms for those who may be the country's most law-abiding citizens. Today, legally-owned weapons are largely non-existent in criminal contexts. Instead, smuggled arms – often from the Balkans – are used exclusively by criminal gangs. These are the weapons we need to access, and the influx must also be stopped. Therefore, the proposed amendments to the smuggling law in this proposal are welcome. To succeed in stopping the criminal gangs, the Customs Agency needs the resources needed to prevent further smuggling. In addition, the police and the judiciary need to be given the resources they need to seize the illegal weapons that already exist in the country, arrest those who handle them and finally sentence them to severe punishment. Madam President, I would like The effect of current legislation is often that the legislator's willingness to influence the use of arms by criminals also has a negative impact on the use of legal weapons. It can be seen, not least, that any change in the Arms Act causes a lot of concern among the country's legal arms owners – as in this case too. Much of the concern now expressed could have been avoided if illegal and legal possession of arms were regulated in separate laws. In order to mitigate any negative effects on law-abiding arms owners, the Government must therefore urgently use what the Riksdag has previously announced and investigate a review and modernisation of the arms legislation that differentiates violations of the regulations for licensing and other weapons offences. Madam President, I would like The temporary licences also need to be abolished, as the Riksdag has also announced to the government on repeated occasions. At present, limited arms licences are not necessary, as gun owners are checked against criminal records every day. It also means that we already meet the requirements for controls on arms owners that come with the EU weapons directive. The time-limited licenses, which would be a mere formality when introduced, have caused a lot of problems for the country's law-abiding shooters. An otherwise law-abiding arms owner who does not submit an application for a renewed licence in good time together with the results of competitions in which he has participated risks being convicted of crimes committed by negligence and which have not affected any other person. It was never intended when this law was introduced. The proposed amendment of the law means that a large number of common sporting weapons will be classified as particularly dangerous and will result in more severe penalties in the event of criminal offences. It can be assumed that, for example, a late application for renewal of the licence will be regarded as a more serious offence than before and thus have a higher penalty value. The temporary licences should therefore be abolished before this legislative amendment is implemented. This would eliminate the risks of otherwise very law-abiding citizens being sentenced to harsher penalties due to mistakes in licensing. In order to restore confidence in the legislation in this area, it would be desirable for the government to now urgently facilitate legal sportsmen by abolishing the limited arms licences, which have caused so many problems. Madam President, I would like However, given the urgent need for organised crime, we cannot delay these proposed penalties. We owe it to the citizens and, above all, to those affected by the shootings to do everything we can to stop this negative development.
i-4b7316b9b5dd5b95-157	Madam President, I would like Accessing illegal weapons and overcoming shootings within criminal networks is extremely important. Arms smuggling and smuggling of explosives means that the number of explosives and shootings in Sweden reaches record levels. Some of the proposals in the government bill are good, but not all. The government has repeatedly landed wrong in its attempt at legislation. The illegal arms management of gang criminals must be distinguished in law from the legal possession of sporting and hunting shooters. It is highly reasonable that legal weapons used for hunting and sporting purposes should have their own, purely administrative, part of the Arms Act, while illegal weapons are handled in special order. Any errors and offences committed by persons who have or have been licensed to the weapon to which the offence relates should not be equated with possession of weapons in a criminal context. If you fail to renew your license for your weapon, you should not be convicted of gross gun crime in the same way as a gang-criminal found with an illegal weapon. The Left Party wants to see a review of arms legislation so that legal hunters and sportsmen are not hit in the hunt for gang criminals.
i-4b7316b9b5dd5b95-161	Madam President, I would like In our country, we see how gross and gang-related violence has moved forward its positions and also how violence is increasing in many parts of our country. One of the most important tasks of our society is to create security in streets and squares for our citizens. The fight against this crime must therefore be intensified by effective laws and measures. The heavy gang-related violence involving shootings and bombings often occurs and is now something that many people are very concerned about and in some cases also have to adapt their daily lives to. Criminal gangs are described as both more aggressive and violent than before, often through the use of illegal weapons and explosives. In today's debate, we are dealing with the proposal for a stricter approach to the handling of weapons and explosives, where the government proposes a stricter approach to this. Madam President, I would like Of course, we Christian Democrats believe that effective action is needed to tackle the possession of weapons and explosives by criminals. At the same time, however, we believe that they must always be done in such a way that it does not create further problems for ordinary hunters and sportsmen. These ordinary people should not have to suffer from society changing laws to face the most destructive forces. For us Christian Democrats, it is obvious not to lump together hunters and sportsmen with those who behave the worst in society. In order to tackle gang crime, we need to decide on strong measures to ensure security, but at the same time it must be done with a focus on not making it more difficult, but rather simplifying the lives of law-abiding and responsible arms owners. It is an approach that I am pleased that the majority of the Committee on Justice shares with this proposal. Over-implementing EU directives and other unnecessary regulations that make it difficult for law-abiding arms owners are not the means of putting an end to serious crime, since, instead of tackling the problem, they mainly lead to the targeting of hunters and sportsmen. In today's Sweden there are a large number, about 600 000, registered gun owners. The study carried out a while ago showed that during the ten-year period when measurements were made of the use of weapons in serious crimes 1.2 weapons a year came from hunting and sporting. This fact shows that other measures are needed to tackle gang crime than to make it more difficult and unnecessarily regulated. There are ways to regulate, but the needs of hunters and sportsmen should be taken into account. Madam President, I would like The penalty scale set out in the bill is very narrowly designed. Raising the maximum sentence for particularly serious gun crimes to seven years in prison hardly makes any difference. It seems that the government is only raising the penalty to meet the announcement addressed to the government by the Riksdag based on a motion by the Christian Democrats, the Moderates, the Center Party and the Liberals. The announcement can certainly be considered satisfactory when the maximum penalty is raised, but the increase from 6 to 7 years makes hardly enough difference. Instead, we believe that the person convicted of a particularly serious weapon offence should be eligible for much more severe penalties. For example, a person convicted of aggravated robbery, aggravated arrest or unlawful detention may be sentenced to 10 years in prison. The law's strictest fixed-term punishment is 18 years in prison. The maximum punishment for extremely serious weapons offences should just focus on the most serious weapons crimes and the maximum punishment should be considerably higher than the 7 years proposed by the government. In comparison with the scale of penalties for drug offences and drug smuggling, the penalties for arms offences are considerably more relaxed, even in the extremely serious cases, such as the introduction of a large number of firearms into the country with a view to arming organised crime. Therefore, in order to allow for a more nuanced measure of penalties and to highlight the seriousness of the most serious forms of weapons offences – violations of the authorisation requirement for explosives as well as the smuggling of weapons and explosives – we think it would be reasonable for the scale of penalties for these crimes to correspond, for example, to the scale of penalties for drug offences. On the basis of this reasoning, I support reservation 3. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats believe that there is a considerable difference between the man handling a legal weapon and the man handling an illegal weapon. However, this distinction is not made clear in the legislation. We believe that this should change. There is an essential difference between the strict licensing system for hunting, sporting and collector weapons that exists in Sweden and the illegal import or manufacture of weapons used in criminal conflicts. This should also be reflected in the legislation. In the long run, the proposed legislation risks hitting sportsmen, hunters and collectors who have a legitimate purpose of owning their weapons but who have been careless or careless in their handling of them. Such departures shall, of course, be prosecuted. Anyone who is careless with their arms handling is not always suitable to possess the said weapons. However, if it falls within the framework of the particularly serious arms crime, for example because an arms owner has been handled carelessly with a weapon with a silencer – something mentioned in the preliminary work of the bill and something common in hunting – it should be regarded as an aggravating circumstance if it is a weapon so equipped for criminal purposes. This leads me, like the majority of the committee, to endorse the following three calls to the government: there should be a clear difference in the legislation between illegal and legal weapons, so that the new stricter rules will not make it unnecessarily difficult for hunting and sportsmen. Preparation, testing and stamping of offences against the authorisation requirement for explosives shall also be considered a criminal offence. And it should be clearer rules and judged as a particularly serious crime to have bombs and other explosives in public places. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that we therefore support the three announcements made in committee management and also, as I said, reservation 3. Once again, we in Parliament must point out to the government that while it is important to act vigorously against illegal weapons, it must not be done in such a way that it affects all law-abiding arms owners. The announcements made today, as well as those that we decided in Parliament last spring, point to how we want the government to think and act. It is time for the government to take on board the message. Feel free to act forcefully, but do so in a way that does not make it unnecessarily difficult for the country's hunters and sportsmen! For law-abiding arms owners, the direction for the future should instead be that more simplifications should be carried out according to the requests made several times by the Riksdag.
i-4b7316b9b5dd5b95-176	Madam President, I would like Last year, 41 people were killed in the 320 shootings that took place in our country. Among them was a young mother who was walking with the stroller. Among them was a young woman who was hit by a stray bullet in a gang settlement. In August, a 12-year-old girl was shot dead while out walking with her dog. Last night, a young man was shot dead in Borås. This is totally insane, of course. We must do everything we can to reduce the spread of criminal gangs in our beautiful country. We must act vigorously and strangle the supply of weapons to Sweden, we must make it difficult for criminals to be criminals and we must provide strong answers. This is done, among other things, through the bill that the government is now presenting and which we are debating here today. It is important that we now tighten the penalties for the smuggling of weapons and explosives. It is important that we now tighten the penalties for possession of weapons. It is important that we tighten the penalties for possession of explosives and preparation for crimes in the field of explosives. Not long ago there was a blast in Linköping, where I was born and raised. Not long ago there was a blast on Östermalm here in Stockholm. Innocent people are affected. You have to be able to feel safe in your own home. I won't let criminals take over. I mentioned those who have died in various shootings. Then there are those who have been injured. Not far from where I live here in Stockholm was a man in his apartment when he suddenly got a bullet through his head. He's a musician and he went blind on one eye. He has suffered for life and now finds it difficult to practice music. The other person who suffered completely innocently in this shooting was a taxi driver. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that our government is putting in place strong measures to reduce this ugly thing that is spreading in our country. Together we will deal with this. The Green Party is proud to support this policy. It is also important that we ensure that the breeding ground for criminals disappears and that we ensure that children have a good life, can go to school and see that there is a light and a society where you can get jobs and have friends and acquaintances who are not the criminal gangs. Madam President, I would like It has been mentioned that hunters and gunmen are made more difficult. It is something of a nid image that environmentalists want to make it more difficult for hunters and gunmen. In fact, many environmentalists are hunters, and according to a Sifo survey, we are the party where the most people are positive about eating game meat. Let me therefore stress that we do not want to make it more difficult for hunters or gunmen. As we write in our special opinion, work is currently under way at the Government Office to ensure that these are not penalised when different laws are tightened up. Madam President, I would like I call for approval of the government proposal, our two reservations and our specific opinion.
i-4b7316b9b5dd5b95-187	Madam President, I would like The liberal debater Mattias Svensson has recently published the book How fun we should not have it about Swedish alcohol policy. One might wonder why I am raising this when we are debating arms legislation and bans. Because in Swedish alcohol policy there was something called the total consumption model. It was based on the fact that the total amount of alcohol sold in the country affected the alcohol problem. This model fails in many ways and cannot be considered relevant in all contexts. However, I came to think of it in this context, because the government seems to have a kind of undertone of a total consumption model in terms of weapons. It seems to be thought that the more weapons there are in society, the more illegal shootings and the equivalent take place. Of course, that is not the case. It is a good ambition to try to divide arms legislation into a part about the regulation of how law-abiding arms owners should handle their weapons and another part about how we squeeze criminals who use illegal weapons ruthlessly and create insecurity throughout society. My colleague and friend Sten Bergheden from the Moderates made a good appeal to the content of all parliamentary announcements to the government. It is a bit distressing that so little has been delivered on this point. We have a fairly broad majority, and it must be clear what is Parliament's view of Swedish arms policy. Even so, quite little is happening. However, this report is somewhat of an apologetic opposite. There are a lot of good things that are being done now. Among other things, the penalties for the smuggling of weapons are tightened and criminal liability for the illegal introduction of weapons into the country is clarified. Something else that is addressed and which is very welcome is an increased criminalisation of the handling of explosives. Criminals have, in some contexts, shifted from using firearms to scaring and causing enormous confusion by carrying out explosive attacks. What we are deciding today will lead this a little bit in the right direction, which is, of course, welcome. We need to make a complete review of the legislation. We need to have a comprehensive set of rules that are legally secure, accurate, easy to understand and easy to work, so that it can be applied to all those who need their weapons in their hobby or in other forms of legal and legitimate practice and at the same time separate it from the illegal, illegal, ruthless and dangerous arms management. We need to get to the smuggling through big efforts. There are coordinators in many places in Europe, but there is certainly a need for more. I am delighted by several of the contributions, including somewhat surprising from the Green Party's declaration on the great hunting interest. It's an interest that I share. Let me therefore say that the European Parliament should be concerned with the same concern as I am about the forthcoming ban on lead. Using lead where it is needed is a prerequisite for having safe and killing shots and as humane a method as possible when hunting. It needs to be understood that in many cases lead is by far the best material for a bullet. It is good that all the hunters of the Green Party surely share this insight so that it can spread. Madam President, I would like We have debated and discussed arms issues so many times in this House. Often the debate has been more negative than it is today when we are actually quite positive about these proposals. I looked through my previous speeches, and I already said two debates back in time that everything has already been said. That's it. Let's repeat ourselves, and we won't get anywhere. That is why we need to take a concerted approach to a new regulatory framework for arms legislation. The problems did not start with the EU weapons directive, but they worsened with it. Perhaps it is about the fundamental and structural misconception that the number of weapons increases the danger in society – although these weapons are responsibly handled by law-abiding owners. Perhaps it was this that led to a misplaced formulation of the arms directive. After the terrible acts of terror in Paris, political action was needed, and something was done that shot right next to the target. We were against the arms directive then, and we are against it now. We will soon be debating this again, because there will be implementation proposals from the government. So we have reason to come back to this, and then we will continue the debate on that basis.
i-4b7316b9b5dd5b95-200	Madam President, I would like The Government's proposal means that the tax rules for temporary work in Sweden will be changed. The changes mean that an employee who is hired from a foreign company that does not have a permanent establishment in Sweden will be taxed here when the employee is here and does work for an activity. It is basically a reasonable proposal. Several other countries have gone the same way, and it is no wonder that Sweden does too. At the same time, the change means that there is a need to introduce derogations. These are exceptional rules that can be applied, for example, at various projects, conferences, training courses and the like where people who are employed abroad come to Sweden to participate in their working hours. The government also makes such exceptions. They mean that the new rules will not apply to those who work in Sweden for up to 15 consecutive days and at the same time that the rules will not apply if the total number of working days in Sweden is 45 or fewer per year. The consequences of this combination of exceptions are, to say the least, somewhat complicated. Derogations therefore apply to those who work 14 days in Sweden on three occasions in one year. There will be a total of 42 days, but never more than 15 days at any one time. However, the exception does not apply to those who work 16 days in Sweden on two occasions, i.e. a total of 32 days fixed in the wrong way. The fact that we have a maximum ceiling, a ceiling for the total number of days that the exception should apply, is, of course, entirely reasonable, but that at the same time we regulate how these days are to be distributed is really not reasonable. A single line should be enough. Madam President, I would like Sweden should be an attractive country to run companies in, both small and large companies, and that we have a number of Swedish large companies that have employees around the world is of course something that is very good. The fact that we have a number of foreign companies with important operations here in Sweden is of course also good, and the fact that these large companies' foreign employees come to Sweden is positive both for them and for a wide range of other companies, such as hotels and restaurants. Unfortunately, that is not the case at the moment, but it will hopefully be in the near future. Madam President, I would like The proposal now put forward by the government has improved compared to the proposal that was first sent out. That is good because the government's first proposal was even more anti-business. In that proposal, the exceptions were for a maximum of 30 days per calendar year and a maximum of 5 consecutive days. It would have been an even harder blow to Swedish companies, and several referrals marked against this. The referral bodies noted that those countries which have similar exemption rules have significantly more generous deadlines. As I said, it is good that the government has made changes, and it is interesting that it is being done, because it shows that the government has realised that there is a problem with an anti-business policy. The problem is that you have only listened a little and screwed the restrictions so that they become a little less harmful. I believe that we should instead have a completely different approach to entrepreneurship. As the consultation bodies observe, the government chooses to propose less generous exemption rules than those in other countries. And you wonder what value the government sees in placing tougher restrictions on Swedish companies than, for example, the German government places on German companies. Instead of putting us at a worse or even the same level as Germany, Sweden should send the signal that here are companies welcome. Come here for conferences, put your courses here, put your projects in Sweden! Instead, the government's signal is that the conditions in Sweden are only a little worse than the conditions in Germany. This will damage Swedish business and therefore Swedish welfare. The Christian Democrats want Sweden to be attractive to companies – all companies, large and small, Swedish and foreign. And we want rules that make Sweden more attractive. We therefore propose that the 15-day rule be completely removed. A limit is sufficient – a limit on the total number of days of work in Sweden, whether it takes ten consecutive days four times, twenty consecutive days twice or all consecutive days. I therefore support this reservation.
i-4b7316b9b5dd5b95-210	Madam President, I would like Swedish rules, laws and traditions must apply in Sweden. This applies regardless of what we're talking about, in all parts of society. It is of particular importance to establish this principle in law when it comes to the labour market. We have a proud tradition of the social partners agreeing among themselves on what should apply in Sweden. This has been and is good both for everyone who works on the floor and for the survival of companies. Continuous improvements for employees in both wages and working conditions have gone hand in hand with continuous improvements in efficiency and calmness in the labour market, with high profits resulting. This is a system that must be protected here too, in Swedish politics. In this House, we have the power to seriously upset the Swedish labour market, both through direct changes in the conditions through legislation and by passively watching the world around us change, which in turn affects how the labour market works in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Today we are discussing such a change. Greater mobility from abroad to Sweden and, on the contrary, combined with relaxations in Swedish rules for hired workers and guest workers have meant that Swedish conditions do not apply to everyone. We have seen in the past how the temporary agency's entry into the Swedish labour market risked overturning agreements and conditions that have been built up for a long time, but we managed this thanks to the flexibility of the Swedish model, where unions and employers agree on how, for example, wage levels should relate to those who have permanent employment at the companies that take in staffing. Of course, it is always best if this happens, but now we are facing another problem where not only companies in Sweden are affected but also leasing companies in other parts of the world. Then it is time for politics to go in and secure with teams so that the Swedish model is not eroded. The same rules and taxes must apply to everyone, no matter how, from where or through which company a person works in Sweden. I am happy to say that this is exactly what is happening now. We secure the Swedish model and the conditions that we have decided jointly on the Swedish labour market. We get better regulation in place while ensuring that companies that need to send personnel for shorter times in Sweden can do without any more hassle than necessary, in order to uphold important principles. This may, for example, involve employees who go to conferences or other events for a short period of time. From now on, 15 consecutive days and 45 days in one year are the exceptions to the rules. This is more than enough for experts to be able to do what they need here, but hopefully not so long as you can put in systems to replace hired workers when the time runs out. We have seen problems with this in the construction industry, for example, before. Increasing the time to 45 consecutive days a year would significantly increase that risk compared to the rules proposed here today. Thus, teams could carry out work for 45 days in Sweden. If the job is not completed after 45 days, the rental company could change workers and thus escape the Swedish rules. This order may sound okay in some people's world, because it gets a bit complicated for some to have certain limits, but not in my world. As I said: Swedish laws and conditions should apply here for everyone regardless of where they come from or why. I've worked in the Swedish steel industry. We have a maintenance stop every year in about a month. If these 15-day rules were not to apply, it would mean that welders from other countries could come here and work for much less money than I and my colleagues are willing to do and for less money than we have actually agreed and decided both here in this House and through the parties. That order isn't okay. We must protect the Swedish labour market and those who actually work there all year, and not just those that are needed sometimes. I therefore support the Government's proposal.
i-4b7316b9b5dd5b95-221	Madam President, I would like This proposal addresses an urgent question of creating competition neutrality between companies using and not using foreign labour. Foreign labour that contributes to Swedish growth is something that is positive for the Swedish economy. But it should not mean a competitive advantage in terms of taxation to hire hired staff. Against this background, the Moderates are fundamentally positive to the spirit and direction of this bill. We do, however, have two concerns about this proposal. The first concerns the technical solutions that the government has chosen to use to address this issue. These are proposals which have received considerable criticism from consultation bodies, although the same consultation bodies are fundamentally in favour of the direction of the proposal. It is criticism based on the fact that it is simply too bureaucratic and complicated regulations. If we had had a moderate-led government, we Moderates would have made sure to respond to this criticism and formulate the proposals in such a way that they did not have this effect. Nevertheless, we do not want to stand in the way of these legislative changes coming into place. But we want to flag because this is something that is important to follow up and ensure that it does not have negative bureaucratic consequences for business. We are therefore open to returning with any pre-amendments and hope that the government will also be open to that. Although the spirit of this proposal is good, it must not mean throwing out the baby with the bath water. The second concern we see is that this proposal may pose problems for the Swedish berry industry. Swedish berry picking industry is to a large extent dependent on the use of foreign labour. We do not want the consequence to be that an entire industry will be severely affected. With these reservations, I call for the proposal to be approved. Nevertheless, I flag on the fact that the Moderates are open to reviewing this in the future and reorganising so that this proposal does not in the long term have these negative consequences.
i-4b7316b9b5dd5b95-225	Madam President, I would like I note that there is a great deal of agreement in committee when it comes to the importance of defining the concept of employers more in line with our environment. International tax policy is increasingly focusing on creating regulations that go in the same direction, and a change in the concept of employers is in line with developments in most countries. Competitive neutrality between companies in the way they choose to organise their activities must be the guiding principle of fiscal policy. Competition between companies is simply about companies competing with each other to be as good as possible, so that their customers and consumers choose to buy their very goods or services. Of course, it is crucial that the basic conditions for neutrality are in place. The fact that taxes distort competition if market participants in a competitive relationship are subject to different rates of taxation is a logical and unfortunate consequence. The proposal on the concept of economic employer is a further step towards strengthening competition neutrality between companies using Swedish and foreign labour. Historically, Sweden has always applied a so-called formal approach to who is an employer. Most of the world uses the economic approach. The proposed amendment would therefore harmonise Sweden's approach with that of the outside world. Madam President, I would like The current Swedish approach creates an unfair competitive situation between, on the one hand, activities in Sweden that employ, and, on the other hand, activities in Sweden that instead hire staff through, for example, a foreign agency. We must also be honest that any change of this kind – the conditions under which a company should pay tax and at what levels – will, in any case, in the short term, have some negative or undesirable effects. This could involve an increased administrative burden and a greater impact on certain sectors and companies. We must look at this in special order. Madam President, I would like I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-4b7316b9b5dd5b95-232	Madam President, I would like We may not be spoiled these days with good news, either in the world in general or in this House in particular. Then it is perhaps all the more important to pay attention when good proposals are made and can go through. The proposals contained in the Government proposal, the concept of economic employer – changes in tax rules in the case of temporary work in Sweden, and which the committee has supported in the report are good proposals. These are proposals that the Left Party has been pursuing for some time. During the last period of exercise we had exactly such a motion but were unfortunately alone. However, there was a process that we were involved in pushing forward in the budgetary cooperation with the government during the last parliamentary term and which is now hopefully being brought to the fore with today's vote. The proposals put forward here may sound a little technical, but they are basically about closing loopholes in terms of getting away from Swedish taxes by using the hiring of workers in situations of cross-border work or posting-type work. There is an exception here that can be discussed but which I think is appropriate and which means that events and conferences, for example, where it is reasonable that you do not tax in Sweden, do not get into trouble. But otherwise it is a matter of safeguarding the basic principle that work carried out in Sweden should be taxed in Sweden. Perhaps we from the Left could have envisaged further adjustments to this proposal. Not least, it would have been reasonable to go further and investigate what is being developed from, among other things, the construction sector. In their opinions, the Trade Union Buildings state that they are concerned that the use of subcontractors in this case can still escape the rules. It will be worth looking further at this in the future. However, this objection is not in the sense that we have exercised this, and so we do not have a reservation in this report either. However, I think it is important to put this proposal in a broader context. This is part of a larger problem – a problem that involves people being exploited on the Swedish labour market and that the companies that account for this exploitation can sometimes also escape tax, for example. My comrade from the Social Democrats was convinced that the Swedish model often handles the problems in a good way, and that is true. But it is also the case that much remains to be done. There are problems created by the market fundamentalist starting points of EU law and the judgments delivered by the European Court of Justice over a number of years. Several of them have had a very negative impact on the Swedish labour market; we remember, for example, how Laval created huge problems for the Swedish model – problems that the bourgeois parties in this House were not very keen to try to solve but which we have nevertheless been able to help reduce the scope of later legislation in Sweden. It is also the case that this is, in fact, closely linked to the issue of labour immigration regulations. It's the same kind of problems that arise that you're trying to solve here. It is a regulatory framework which today, in many cases, opens up to the gross exploitation of people, and the government is unfortunately bound by its cooperation parties and has not been able to act in a powerful way to try to solve some of the problems. But it is clear that it is a good thing that these proposals are being made. It is a good thing to try to change the regulatory framework where possible, so that the conditions for prosecuting exploitation and tax evasion are good. At the same time, if you are going to believe in the Swedish model and support it, it is very often about the trade unions having the opportunity to say when something is problematic and have the opportunity to act. It is in this light that we need to see, for example, the discussions now taking place on employment protection in Sweden and on the possibility for trade unions to have a role in the Swedish labour market where they can stand up for workers' rights regardless of where people come from and where they happen to be born. In the past, there was a discussion on organised crime. It is an urgent debate that the Committee on Justice held. We should bear in mind that the labour market is an arena where organised crime today occurs to a large extent – and that this crime often goes hand in hand with other organised crime, which takes the form of gross violence and so on. This is the context that the legislator needs to follow all the time to ensure that the results are as reasonable as possible on the ground, for ordinary people. I note, in conclusion, that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has opposed the proposal in its referrals and has not wanted to see these changes. It is good that the government, and now hopefully the Riksdag, still goes ahead with the proposals and does not take into account the objections of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. I think that is something that should happen more often in the legislative process in order for us to have good laws in the field of labour market in Sweden.
