i-ef767b9c337eeae1-8	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that in S we support all the legislative proposals contained in the report, but we have reservations about the motion that has been raised. Madam President, I would like Today, I am proud both as a social worker on leave and as a politician in the Swedish Parliament that we, as a united social committee, are taking the side of vulnerable children and doing the same thing in order to improve the situation of children. All children in Sweden should have the right to grow up under safe and loving conditions. Unfortunately, not all children do. In some families parenting goes wrong, and it's always a grief for a family when you haven't done your important role as a parent. Often failure is inherited, and young parents who fail the role may have had a tough and sad upbringing themselves. It is therefore important that society sees what is best for the child in the vulnerable situation. Here, society needs to be much better at providing support to parents in parenthood both before, during and after a pregnancy. Usually, the strain of parenthood comes when young parents feel confused and cannot relate to a good upbringing. You do not know what to do in parenting, and you may not have the ability to give the child the warmth and connection that he or she needs. If there is then also an abuse at the bottom is the risk of falling back into it as a way to escape from a failed parenthood. Madam President, I would like In such a situation, the child may get caught, but hopefully the preschool or school sees the child's situation and makes complaints to the social services. Various efforts can be made, but sometimes the situation has become so bad in the family that only one family home placement remains. In a successful family home placement, the child gets all the proximity and security that was missing in the home. The child attends preschool and gets new friends, and if the child is older, it also connects with the community. After a child has been placed for three years in the family home, a trial may be made to transfer custody from the parents to the family home. Here it is important to see what is best for the child in the long term. Do the child and family home parents have a secure connection? How have parents done their part in parenting with association, drug freedom, and more? Madam President, I would like If we take the example of Kalle, who has lived in family homes between three and six years of age and developed a good relationship with the family home, got friends in the preschool class and started playing hockey, we in committee want the new law to take greater account of what is best for Kalle but also of what Kalle himself expresses – always on condition that the family home wants and that the authorities can state that it is safer for Kalle to stay in the family home. Another proposal from the committee, Madam President, concerns the so-called health plan and that it should be revised at the latest after two years of placement. A care plan makes social services when placed in a family home, for example. The care plan addresses where the child should live, what the relationship should be with the parents, if the child needs extra support and more. Normally, things happen during a placement that means that you have to revise the care plan, but today there is no law that states that the care plan will be revised no later than two years. Madam President, I would like The development of a family home-placed child should always be continuously evaluated, especially if the child was very young at the time of placement. It is then important to look at how the relationship between the family home and the child has developed, but also how the relationship with the parents has changed. Madam President, I would like In its proposal, the Government also takes up the child's right to legal assistance and that special suitability requirements should be imposed on the public representative of the young person, i.e. the child, in cases and matters under LVU, the Act on the Care of Young People. Given that Sweden has supported the Convention on the Rights of the Child, I think it is clear that vulnerable children should have the right to the best support in legal processes. Finally, Madam President, as a social worker or a close relative of a vulnerable child, one might ask whether these proposals radically change the lives of placed children. To some extent, one might say that the answer is. To bring the child's right more clearly into a custody review is a step in the right direction and to require public assistants to have solid knowledge and experience in children's matters makes the court's trials more secure. Madam President, I would like But much remains to be done to ensure that a child's best interests are preserved. Better support for parents at an early age is one of the key factors in providing better housing conditions for children. More efforts are needed for parents of young children through the BVC and social services. There is a need for extended and targeted parental education, which is an example of excellent preventive measures. But parents' demands for parental responsibility also need to be tightened up. In order to bring home children who are placed, drug abuse parents must clearly pursue different treatment programs and for a longer period of time show a stable development with drug freedom. For children who are placed for longer periods in, for example, a family home and where it is best for the child to remain in the family home, we agree that protection needs to be strengthened. We Social Democrats also know that the government is doing everything it can to overcome the shortcomings that exist. At the moment, the government is investigating what further legislative changes need to be made to strengthen the protection of placed children and, as the Convention on the Rights of the Child states, to put the child at the centre.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-25	Madam President, I would like Little hjärtat – a tragedy so terrible that it is painful to even put words on it. Esmeralda, who was her real name, was not only a victim of her biological parents but also of society. We let Esmeralda down on the roughest. That is why we are having this debate today. IVO's review of the events surrounding Esmeralda's death gives us a brutal insight into the major shortcomings in social care for children and young people. The report notes that the girl did not receive the support and protection to which she was entitled. Society could have acted differently. Working with vulnerable children are very complex issues. It's about the safety of children and the right to a nice upbringing. It is about the very essence of a family's life, our right to our children, our integrity and the terrible fates of people. We should not forget that the forced placement of children is one of the most extensive procedures we can do. It is therefore incredibly serious when we discover that we have major shortcomings in the social care of children and young people, especially when it comes to forced care. I'm afraid that's nothing new. We have known for a long time that young people forcibly placed are often less well off after being placed than before, and we know that there are major shortcomings in giving children their own voice and the protection to which they are entitled. That was one of the reasons why an investigation was set up to reform the LVU. In 2015, the report presented children's and young people's rights in coercive care – A proposal for a new LVU. It is a solid investigation whose aim is to strengthen children's rights and society's obligations. Unfortunately, politics has not, in principle, done anything to make it a reality. It is of course a good thing that we are now clarifying the rules on custody transfer and the care plan and that we are ensuring that children will have their own public assistants. However, it is still rather modest proposals if you look at the shortcomings that actually need to be addressed. This isn't enough. Madam President, I would like Time and again, when we see that we lack the protection and security of our most vulnerable children, it is not good to move forward by ant steps. This calls for strong action. We in the Left Party would have liked the government to take the opportunity to make the major changes that would really secure children's rights and that the government would now seriously stand up for the Convention on the Rights of the Child to become Swedish law. To consider the issue of custody transfer annually after the child has been placed in the same family home for three years, as proposed by the bill, is a good thing. However, we must be aware that the transfer of custody is a very extensive intervention in a child's life. That is precisely why such action can only be taken in very serious cases. All interventions involving children should be based on what is really for their good. The Left Party believes that there are other changes in legislation that would lead to greater security and create better conditions for both children, family homes and parents. An example of this is a so-called extended or expanded LVU. This would allow children and young people to remain in their family home even after the reason for the placement has ceased. This would give children who experience security, stability and a strong connection with the family home parents the opportunity to continue their placement, while at the same time the family home parents will continue to receive support from the social services. For us, it is an absolute requirement that children's rights must be strengthened in forced care. It is important that the starting point is that the child's best interest is to grow up with his or her parents, if possible. But it is the children's opinion and well-being that should be the decisive factor. If a child has lived in a family home for a long time and it has become the child's security, it is the child's voice that determines whether it should remain. It requires that children's best be an independent prop. It is already a reality in several of our neighbouring countries, so it is quite possible to implement it here too. Society must take responsibility for ensuring that the relationship between children and parents during the placement period is always based on the child's needs and will. Social services should work to support parents with efforts that can lead to the child moving back home or that the relationship with them will be in the best interests of the child. Of course, it should be the case that a child should receive support and help even after a placement has been completed. No child should be left alone as Esmeralda became. The Left Party wants independent child representatives to be set up where children and young people can turn in situations where they are not listened to or receive the support and help they need. Last but not least, with no dignity in the body, we cannot demand that children have a safe life if we do not at the same time give those who work with the children the right conditions to carry out their mission. Work in social care for children and young people requires increased skills, the right tools and a good working situation for the employees. The constant change of social security secretary creates insecurity in children and young people, and confidence in social services is declining. If we are serious about children's best being at the centre, social services need more resources and better opportunities to do a good job. Madam President, I would like We have this debate today because a little girl has been brought to life. What absolutely must never happen has happened. We are standing here today because children in this country are suffering incredibly badly even after they have been put into the care of society. We in the Left Party are firmly convinced to give our children the security and love they deserve. This requires us to take a holistic approach in which the best interests of children become leaders and that the right tools are in place to ensure that. Then political determination is required. It is therefore deeply regrettable that the government has chosen not to act to ensure children's rights in forced care. It has had over five years at its disposal, with concrete proposals in its hand, but in principle nothing has happened. In fact, a little more needs to be done now. We support the report in its entirety and call for the reservations of S, V and MP to be approved.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-40	Madam President, I would like The girl born in April 2016 has withdrawal. She's nine days old when the mother leaves her to the midwives and leaves. Society protects the girl and gives her a loving home to grow up in. There, Madam President, this story could end with the certainty that this terrible start in life was a good continuation that now continues in security and love. The words I read initially are Josefin Sköld, journalist at Dagens Nyheter. These words begin the hideous story of the girl who was called Lilla hjärtat and who continues to be with us as Lilla hjärtat. We all know the terrible continuation of this girl's destiny. In January, Madam President, the most terrible thing happened, the unimaginable and the most painful thing: this little girl named Esmeralda is found dead in the homes of her biological parents. Josefin Sköld deserves special mention for his words in this story. They went right into the heart of the rest of us, painfully and powerfully. Personally, I couldn't even read the whole article in one piece and had to pause to carry on, and I know that I wasn't alone in reacting that way. The article made visible not only the fate of Lilla hjärtat but also fundamental problems in how Sweden handles the children that we must protect. My party chairman met with Esmeralda's family mother and heard her story and despair. Out of all this was born a great sorrow but also a tremendous determination. How can it only be done like this in Sweden 2020? Madam President, I would like From this was also born the committee initiative that I put on the table of the Social Affairs Committee on 12 March this year. It contained two parts: a proposal with three sharp legislative proposals, and then a series of things that we Moderates see as extremely important to quickly change in Swedish legislation but that first need customary preparation. On 12 June 2012, the Alliance Government commissioned a special investigator to review the provisions of the Act with specific provisions on the care of young people, abbreviated LVU, and to analyse the need for changes and clarifications of the regulatory framework. The aim was to strengthen the perspective of children's rights and legal certainty for children and young people forced under LVU and to contribute to quality development. On 12 June 2014, Minister Ulf Kristersson supplemented this by adding the assignment to make a review of how long-term sustainability and stability can be better ensured for children who are or are deemed to be long-term. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, the Alliance lost the election the same year. The investigation was completed in 2015 and was handed over to the Red Green Government who did what? All the important proposals from the Investigation on forced care for children and young people who touched on these issues were put into a drawer. Madam President, I would like Today I expected to see Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren in the Chamber. I understand that covid-19 takes much of the minister's time, but the issues that Parliament is debating today should be one of the top priorities of the minister. It worries me that we in the area by area – it may be about LSS, HVB, family home placements or Sis-hem – get reports of how vulnerable children get ill in Sweden. Unfortunately, this is not unusual but abounds. I would like to ask the Minister today why more has not been done in these six years, why these investigations have remained in the drawer and why children's issues have simply not been given priority. However, since the Minister is not here, I can assume that the Socialist Member will answer my questions instead. Why didn't anything happen at the Ministry of Social Affairs until we Moderates put the bill on the table in Parliament? Madam President, I would like It is something historic that is happening today, something that is pleasing. Social policy history is written in the Chamber. Following the committee initiative on 12 March, the committee decided on 9 April to start preparing these proposals in Parliament. Six out of eight parties – all parties except the government parties Social Democrats and the Environmental Party – supported these proposals, and a reference group was formed. It also included the Social Democrats and the Green Party, and I am very pleased about that. This meant that we could prepare the proposals together and thus find a great deal of agreement. It is about a change of perspective, about simply moving the perspective of case law in Sweden. It has been about the right of biological parents to their biological children but is now being moved to see what is the best interests of the child. By midsummer, this group had completed two of the three legislative proposals: the health plan part and the custody transfer. They were submitted to the Swedish Law Council, which gave wise and good views, which enabled us to improve and further prepare our proposal this autumn. There are also two government proposals for this. One is about the suitability requirements for public counsels, and the other is about a regular review of the custody transfer. But there is an objection from a majority of the committee's parties. We want this to happen sooner than after three years. This does not mean that we are endangering the law, but it means that we want this to happen sooner and that it should be done more individually. We know that the situation of different children is very different, and three years is a long time. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that this really is not enough. As Maj Karlsson put it, these are only small parts. These are important but extremely small parts of a much larger work going on, and I can promise that we Moderates will return on this issue. I would also like to thank all the people who have been involved – from the staff who have worked hard here in Parliament to my colleagues in the review panel. It has been very good and very wise input, and we have come a long way forward. We have done so together and in unity. I also want to thank everyone out there. I would like to thank all the children's rights fighters and all the family homes that take care of these broken children and make sure to fill their lives with security and love. I promise you that we will come back with more proposals that will make your task easier. I would also like to express my special thanks to Little Heart's mother for everything she has done and everything she does. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-60	Madam President, I would like Camilla Waltersson Grönvall says that the government has been slow to take initiatives. Now I did not sit in Parliament during the last parliamentary term, but I have been working on these issues for quite some time. Before the committee initiative was taken, we had a discussion in committee on how to proceed in this regard. The government chose its way and Camilla Waltersson Grönvall went forward with a committee initiative. It can therefore be said that there were initiatives from both the government and the committee. It was a good thing that it was a committee initiative too, because it gives rise to the questions, I think. I would like to ask Camilla Waltersson Grönvall a question. We have had a group in committee that has worked out these issues, and all parties have been represented. Does not Camilla Waltersson Grönvall think that the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party have been active in the group's work and contributed to a common result?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-62	Madam President, I would like The committee initiative was presented on 12 March this year – 12 March 2020 – when the red-green government had been in power since 2014. It's in my eyes and ears six years lost for vulnerable children. The investigation that I mentioned and from which we have taken the legislative proposals came in 2015. It was an investigation that provided the Riksdag and the Government with legislative proposals to proceed with, but the Government owns the initiative to draft a proposal to proceed to the Riksdag with. I think I am speaking for the vast majority of the House, Madam President, when I say that we had gladly received such proposals from the government. But there were no proposals. No proposals were made in 2015, not in 2016, not in 2017, not in 2018 and not in 2019. There were two important but, which I think the honourable Member will agree with, rather small and limited proposals at the end of 2020. I must add that I think it may have had some impact that we pushed on the part of Parliament. My question to the honourable Member remains: what has the government been doing over all these years, and why have vulnerable children not been given higher priority?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-67	Madam President, I would like I believe that my party in the leading position has given children a different priority. The Convention on the Rights of the Child has been introduced as a law, and we have also worked on other issues. The inquiry referred to here received criticism in referrals from heavy bodies. This meant that the government could not go forward with the bill as a whole. I feel it is important that we do not make political play of such an important issue. I'm pretty happy anyway. We gave and took on the work of this group. I wonder why you Moderates, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, are taking forward motions that were not raised in the group in which we worked together in committee. I wonder.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-71	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that the honourable Member believes that the party he represents does a lot for the children. I look at what has really been submitted to Parliament in the form of proposals and proposals from the government, and there is the conclusion that there is a terrible gap. So it is rather empty words to say that this government has done a lot for children. And, to be honest, the Convention on the Rights of the Child is hardly something that the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government has written out. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is a good one, but I would like to remind the honourable Member that we pointed out when it was to be introduced that this will not be enough. We heard at the beginning of this year the Minister of Social Affairs say that we do not need to change the law because we have the Convention on the Rights of the Child instead. She has had to take this back because the child's rights and the child's best interests are not taken sufficiently into account in the Convention on the Rights of the Child without making sharp changes to Swedish legislation. The Social Democrats have also had to agree with this. It is heavy criticism from heavy consultation bodies. Just open and read the various parts from the consultation bodies. There are not many referrals that criticise the investigation. On the contrary, most agree with what the investigation says. It was the Ombudsman of Justice who commented that the best interests of the child could not be used as their own props. We've shown that it's possible. And that is something that both the Minister and Mr Wiking agree with, having been hard pressed by the rest of us. Politically, it's not about. When nothing happens in an area, it is actually the task of the opposition to press on. I would like to thank the group for its constructive work. That is indeed true, and I would also like to give that to Mr Wiking.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-76	Madam President, I would like As has been said, consideration of the transfer of custody, revision of the care plan for placed children and special suitability requirements for public assistants is the title of the report that we are debating today. It is an important debate and hopefully a first step towards tomorrow's social services. It is a small step but at least a step in the right direction. The report contains a number of important announcements and proposals which, of course, I support and which I hope the government will urgently continue to work on. It is indeed high time for action. It is not good enough to constantly investigate things and then not act on the criticisms and proposals that have been made after an investigation. Since the late 1990s, several investigations have been tasked with analysing the need for legislative changes and other measures to reduce the uncertainty of the lives of children staying in family homes for a long time. These are studies aimed at further ensuring the perspective of children's rights and the rule of law and at creating long-term and stability for children who live in uncertainty about their future. If politics is to have any credibility, it is also a matter of acting on the signals. Today, there is little credibility when someone says: we must look after the best interests of children. I am convinced that every individual who says those words means them. Nevertheless, the question must be asked: If everyone wants the best interests of the children, why is it that almost nothing has happened? How is it that, after an investigation, an investigation has been submitted more or less? If everyone agrees, things should have been done, regardless of government. In this case, one might find it sad that 2014 was a change of government. If everyone agrees, changes should have been made. But that's not what it looks like. Politics has failed many of these children. Society has failed them. Who saw to the best of the little hjärtat? It applies to all children in the dark speech that I am convinced exists. I am fully aware that these are complex issues on which it cannot be decided in a flash. I am a member of the reference group dealing with the committee initiatives that have been submitted on this issue. I know it's not easy. But seriously! How long are we gonna keep the children of society waiting? How many terrible events are going to happen? Since the 1990s, there have been a series of investigations to improve the long-term perspective. Should it really take tragic events that receive media attention for something to happen on this issue? Madam President, I would like When the Social Welfare Board is considering applying for a transfer of custody, it must be very clear what should be taken into account before the child's long-term residence is determined. That is precisely what one of the proposals is about today. Of course I agree with that. For me, it is self-evident things that absolutely should not be used with restrictiveness but should always be taken into account. A prerequisite for the transfer of custody is of course that both children and family home parents have a positive attitude towards a custody transfer. Equally obvious is that there should be conditions to give the child a safe and good upbringing. But there must also be a good attitude toward the need and desire for continued contact with parents and other loved ones. Today, the Social Welfare Board has an obligation to consider at least once every six months whether care in a home other than its own is still needed, how health care should be targeted and how it should be designed. This is an obligation. But it is something that is not always done. So there are shortcomings here. They must be evaluated and monitored. We believe that if the need for care in a home other than your own remains, the Social Welfare Board should consider in particular whether there are reasons to apply for the transfer of custody at the latest when the child or the child has been in a family home for two years, not three years as it is today. Security and continuity must be ensured for children. You have to give them a place to call home, a place where they know it makes sense to take root, a place where there are people around them to connect to. Children's rights, needs and wishes must be protected. Madam President, I would like Some before me have described the questions a little more in-depth and perhaps a little more legal. Given that I am a little further down on the list of speakers, I have chosen only to scratch the surface to clarify the views of the Swedish democrats. I have also deliberately chosen not to highlight examples from reality. I get so emotional when I think about the terrible events that I could report here. But I also know that those who hear this debate are aware of the reality that really set the debate in motion. Soon there will be a more thorough and broader debate entitled Placed children and young people. We will then have the opportunity to debate the matter more fully. Madam President, I would like I would like to wish everyone a happy Christmas and New Year's weekend and I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-89	Madam President, I would like Children have the right to participation, to a safe upbringing, to receive information and to speak. However, the legislation we have today is based more on the role of parents than on the role of children. The legislation is based on a great deal of voluntary activity. That's good. At the same time, however, we need to review other parts of the legislation where we need to allow rules that violate confidentiality. You need to be able to talk to a child without the consent of a guardian and without the guardian being there, precisely in order to get answers to what the child wants. The child should be able to speak, and the child should feel involved. We also need to have an increased focus on support for families who need it. We need to strengthen support for parents so that those who lack their care skills are supported so that they do not have to go as far as caring. We can take parents with NPF diagnostics as an example. They may to some extent fail in their parenting skills. But with the right support, they can be very good parents. To work with those things, it takes knowledge. We need to learn more about how we work with children, how children can talk, and how to talk to children. What methods do we use when we work with investigations about children and young people? It is not only social services employees who need the increased knowledge. It is also needed by the chairman of the social welfare committee, the courts, lawyers, the police and others. Madam President, I would like This report is largely on the table thanks to the work done by the committee. It is, as my colleagues have previously discussed, the transfer of custody. What should we consider when assessing and considering a custody transfer? It is about the children's connection to their biological parents, but also the connection they have to the family homes or the family home parents. It is also about the family home's ability to support the child in its contacts with the original family. These may be parents, siblings, grandparents or, for that matter, other important adults who have been in the original family. These considerations are very important to do when the reason for disposal has ceased. We must constantly go back to what the child's best interests are and to the child's will, and we must ensure the child's participation. It is also a matter of establishing a health care plan no later than after two years of placement. The focus should be on long-term sustainability, on long-term housing for the individual child or the individual young person. The report contains a few good proposals from the government. This applies to special suitability requirements for public assistants. It ties in with what I mentioned earlier about the need to increase the knowledge of those who work with children and young people. It is also important that the transfer of custody should be considered annually after a first transfer. These are good proposals, but they are not enough. More is needed, which several have been on before. We need to do more things. We need to consider the custody transfer earlier than three years. We have an announcement that this will happen after two years. Not only does this apply to the little child who has been placed in a family home since the beginning of life, but it can also be about an older youth remaining after moving around in different family homes and finally finding a root. He or she needs to feel safe and this is where I'm going to live, and here I'm going to live until I grow up. I hope the government now takes the chance and puts the best interests of the child first. We will have a number of different debates on the subject this spring. It is not enough for the Ministry of Social Affairs to do the work, but also for the Ministry of Justice to do so in order to put the child first. As I said, the government now has the chance to come up with many additional proposals, both on the basis of the investigations that have been mentioned earlier and by seeing the benefit of the proposals that will be in a number of committee movements from the Center Party, among others. The committee is now continuing its work on defining the best interests of the child. In fact, we need to determine what the child's best interests are. That's what matters. I look forward to the joint work. As has been said before, the work has been fantastic, and we will be able to continue with it. As I said, the Convention on the Rights of the Child is now Swedish law. Recently there was an investigation that pointed out what we need to improve in Swedish legislation. It is not enough that the convention itself is law, but we need to change our own legislation. There are two examples that the government could look further at. Among other things, we must ensure that children have the right to information, and we must have regulated parental support. Madam President, I would like Of course, the Center Party wants to do more than the report contains. We want to enhance the role of family homes. We want to continue working with a focus on knowledge and evidence-based methods. We also want to remove obstacles to collaboration so that you can really work with the best interests of the child. Support for family homes is needed after a transfer of custody has taken place. Care must be taken to be able to follow up children after a placement has ceased. They need to be followed up for more than two months to ensure that the child is well. Again, the government can now take the chance. The Center Party and I are prepared to join in the work and make our contribution. This is just the beginning. There will be more debates. Both the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Civil Liberties will have them. I hope the government stands by its word about putting the best interests of the child first. I therefore support the proposal contained in the report.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-103	Madam President, I would like Being a voice for those who cannot make their own voices heard is at the very heart of Christian Democratic ideology. The fact that we Christian Democrats took the initiative for the Convention on the Rights of the Child to become Swedish law was therefore an obvious step to stand up for children's rights. I am pleased that the law has been in place for almost a year. However, we must not settle down just because the Convention on the Rights of the Child has become Swedish law. No, other laws need to be clarified in order to safeguard children's rights. This is particularly and painfully evident in the case of children and young people who need community care when parents' care, security and care are lacking. The child's best interests – the child's safety – must be what weighs most during childhood. It must not happen that a child is snatched from his or her security, from his or her family's parents and siblings, that is to say, being picked up from what he or she knows as his or her family, instead being moved to parents who are practically strangers to the child. It may be parents whose ability to care at worst still lacks. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, however, that is how Swedish law works today. Parents' right to their children weighs heavily, sometimes heavier than the child's best interests. We can't have that. Putting the child's best interests first means that parents' rights may stand back. We Christian Democrats have long been calling for these changes. Already in 2012, the then Christian Democratic Minister for Children and the Elderly Maria Larsson appointed to the Alliance Government an investigation that would provide better protection and community care for children and young people. The investigation was presented to the Social Democratic led government in 2015, but unfortunately the government did not proceed with the legislative proposals. We Christian Democrats have continued to push these issues through parliamentary motions, but unfortunately they have not won the support of a majority in this House. It is indescribably sad that the years have passed. Madam President, I would like A childhood cannot be reprized, and too many people who have received community care during childhood indicate that they have been in a bad way growing up. They weren't listening. They weren't allowed to be part of it. They did not receive the support and care needed to feel safe or to do well in school. They testify that the experience of society's lack of support does not disappear simply because they grow up and grow up. Instead, it is experiences that characterize them and that they carry with them for the rest of their lives. Too many people feel psychologically ill, and too many end up in bad company, exclusion, abuse and crime. Madam President, I would like The shortcomings in the protection of the law and in the support of society have been so profound that children have been deprived of the opportunity to grow up and witness to their childhood. It is so incredibly tragic, and it must never happen again. Happily, there is now a collective political will for change. I would like to extend warm thanks to my moderate colleagues in the Committee on Social Affairs for raising the committee initiative based on the investigation that Maria Larsson set up but was not taken further. The initiative put pressure on the government to act, and when the government did not act quickly and forcefully enough, the initiative became the basis for the legislative work that we have now done here in Parliament. I would also like to thank my colleagues from all parties but also the officials from the committee secretariat for the good cooperation we have had in the working group of the Social Committee. There is no doubt that the best interests of the child have been the target of everyone in the course of their work. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats and I wholeheartedly support the committee's position in today's report. It is a bit of a partial account of the work that is still going on in the Social Affairs Committee along with a supplementary proposal from the government. It is gratifying that the Social Services Act and the Act on the Care of Young People will now be amended to strengthen the child's right to security when it comes to custody transfers. Where there is reason to consider a transfer of custody, the social welfare board shall pay particular attention to the attitude of the young and family-run parents towards a transfer of custody. The young person's relationship with the family home parents and its ability to meet the child's needs for a good and safe upbringing shall also be taken into account. Similarly, the ability of family home parents to meet the need for contact with parents and other family members should be taken into account. Finally, the child's relationship with its parents should be taken into account. This will be done together with a more frequent and continuous follow-up of custody transfer considerations and the new requirement for special jurisdiction for the public assistants representing young people in cases related to the Act on the Care of Young People. These are important elements for the law to promote a safe upbringing for children and young people who need community care. Madam President, I would like As many before me have pointed out from the speaker's seat, it is important to realise that this is only a first step. Much more is required. The best interests of the child must permeate the entire law on the care of young people. In order for the law to apply to the best interests of the child to be stable and characterised by a high level of legal certainty, the definition of the best interests of the child needs to be specified. It is a work that is now under way in the working group of the Committee on Social Affairs. But more is needed. In order to ensure that proper assessments are made in cases concerning children in need of community care, the competences of social secretaries need to be quality assured and their responsibilities strengthened. It is also important to give family home parents the opportunity to remain in contact with and related to the child if it has been reunited with the parents. Follow-up and support for parents are also crucial. We must also improve the conditions and conditions of family homes, not least through continuous development of skills. These are some of the elements that we need to work on. Madam President, I would like Few things are as important as securing a child's upbringing. Ensuring children's rights will always be the responsibility of adults. That responsibility, Madam President, will continue to be the responsibility of the Christian Democrats.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-118	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the good cooperation in the committee initiative. Important reform work has started in this House. It is a good start, but the capacity for action must be increased. This work has its start in the tragic fate that struck Esmeralda, in the media also known as Lilla hjärtat. She didn't have time to turn four, but she suffered so much during her short lifetime. We could have prevented this by letting Esmeralda stay in the family home in which she was placed already as a newborn. We politicians are here to bring in every syllable as well as the pain and sorrow expressed in this case. Unfortunately, Esmeralda's destiny is not unique. Around Sweden there are so many children living in vulnerability, fear and powerlessness. The parents' right to the child does not outweigh the child's right to a safe environment. Children are never parents' possessions. They are their own people with their own rights. Let us not now wait for another tragic case to be brought to the attention of the media – I, too, must thank Josefin Sköld on Dagens Nyheter for the wonderful work she has done – before further political action is taken. We politicians cannot just react. We have to act, because children's lives don't replay. How is it possible that it has taken five years for the government to submit proposals for a self-evident measure such as the suitability of public representatives to represent children and young people in cases and cases according to LVU? It is one of the proposals from the Ceders investigation, which was submitted to the government as early as 2015. I had such great hopes for that investigation in my previous role as responsible for the national work against honour-related violence and repression, and then become just as disappointed when I realized that the central parts of the investigation were not taken care of by the government. Today we are talking about the failed children – point. Let us have the betrayed, forgotten children before our eyes. Sweden is a fantastic country to grow up in for the majority of children. They have parents with the ability to give them love, care and security. These are children whose parents are concerned that someone else will harm their children. Today we're talking about the reverse. We are talking about children who are concerned and afraid that it is the guardians who are going to hurt them. It is about the wounds that are created and how trust is damaged when children are exposed by those who should give them love, security and care. I am thinking of what Mr Andreas, President of Knas at home, said when he visited us in the Social Affairs Committee. He talked about the right to love and said: Stop trying to fix us – start loving us! Our focus should be to see the vulnerability of biological guardians through the eyes of vulnerable children. Then we find the balance and realize that what is best for the vulnerable child varies. In some cases biological guardians demonstrate a capacity for change, and the victim may then find trust in his biological guardians. But we must also realise that there are children who will never experience that security and trust with their biological guardians. The tools should be more numerous and should be based on what is best for the individual child. The Liberals support the report. But let me be clear to all of you who listen at home: much more needs to be done. Children who are vulnerable need better efforts than this House has delivered in the past and what today's proposal covers. The law on the care of young people must be fundamentally revised, which is also highlighted in Ceders's investigation. It is, as we have all been in on, a major procedure for forced custody of a child. Yet that legislation lacks objectives as well as requirements specification for what healthcare should contain. It will be impossible to exercise relevant supervision when the law has no objective. Without goals, it will also be difficult to define what the focus of care should be and how the support should be designed. We know that vulnerable children are in danger of facing enormous difficulties in the future when they are exposed and mistreated at the beginning of their lives. Risks of falling into crime, abuse, mental ill-health and long-term dependency on benefits increase significantly if children who have been victims do not have access to support, protection and care based on their individual needs. These children have no guardians who can fight for their rights, but it is we and society who should see to it. The need for follow-up also needs to be clarified. When a vulnerable child is taken care of, the municipality and the state have a huge responsibility to ensure that the accommodation decided upon really has the ability to meet the child's individual needs. Family homes must be better supported in order to have the right conditions to carry out their vital mission and to prevent breakdown. Despite the responsibility of care, there will be alarm reports about shortcomings at HVB homes and accommodations for which the National Board of Institutional Affairs is responsible. The lack of clear targets for the content of care, which I mentioned earlier, means that girls exposed to sexual abuse can be placed together with young guys who have committed sexual abuse and that children with neuropsychiatric functional variations can be placed in the same department as criminals. Children and young people in need of support and protection are thus at risk of being placed under the responsibility of a state and municipality. I'm tired of hearing the alarm report after the alarm report about placing children in harm's way. We cannot allow this to continue in a country like Sweden. We know and we can do better than that. These abuses are largely caused by the fact that the legislation is unclear and unclear and lacks requirements on how to place children. Let us then make the law clear and start from the needs of children for quality individual care based on respect and love. The parents' right to the child does not outweigh the child's right to a safe environment. Children are never parents' possessions. They are their own people with their own rights. One thing is certain: If we do not do enough for vulnerable children at the beginning of life, it will have consequences throughout our lives. I support the proposal in the report as a whole. This means that the Liberals support the proposals contained in the bill. Of course, we are also in favour of all three declarations proposed by the committee, which are in favour of the Liberals' proposals. I have a question I would like to ask Minister Lena Hallengren, who is not here. There are hundreds of announcements on high. Now there's three more. If we agree in this House that the vulnerability of children in particular plays a special role in what we see linked to crime and other areas about which we also have announcements, is there a possibility that these particular parts will be given priority in the important work ahead?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-138	Madam President, I would like I was born in a place where there were just over 9,000 people. From my childhood I remember the bookstore, perfumery, clothing shops, the goldsmith, the shop, the shoe store, the car hall, the hardware store, the kiosks, the cinema, the hotel, Konsum where my grandfather worked and the newspaper's local office. Today, there's only the shoe shop left, everything else is closed. Today, the municipality has Sweden's lowest median income. The proportion of people with at least three years of post-secondary education in the age group 25-64 is Sweden's third lowest. The employment rate is seventh lowest in Sweden. However, there are some lists that the municipality tops. For example, the share of early retirement is highest in that municipality, and the share supported by different compensation schemes and financial assistance is the fifth highest. In September this year 4,701 persons were registered in the municipality. At the end of the 50's, there were over 10,000 people living in the municipality. Sure, people moved there. While the young moved out to train and get jobs, others moved in. The housing surplus means that many private property owners rent out to low-income and indebted people. People with low incomes and debts should also have a place to live. But when they cannot find a place of residence, they move to municipalities with empty apartments, and sometimes with the help of their richer municipality of residence. When the choice is between being homeless or moving to a municipality that usually comes last or at the bottom of the Focus Survey Here it is best to stay is the choice still simple. Last summer statistics from Kronofogden showed that in the municipality 20.1 per cent of children have parents with debts. This is the highest proportion of all municipalities in Sweden. So it is one in five children, compared to one in twelve, that is the incision. Every twelfth is also high, way too high. Madam President, I would like The place of use I was born in is in a negative spiral and has been so ever since the important industry was closed down in the 70s, and it is not the only municipality that has been affected. While some municipalities grow and have a good tax force when people move in, others have an older population due to emigration. While some municipalities consist of a clear urban area with short distances, other municipalities have long distances. While some municipalities have residents who deduct taxes on cleaning and house renovation, other municipalities have residents who live on the poverty line and sometimes do not even have any income to estimate for. While fewer than every fifty children in Lomma and Danderyd have parents who are in debt with the bailiff, there is one in five in my municipality of birth. Taste a little of that difference, and feel the devastating divides in our society. A worker in Dorotea, who has Sweden's highest municipal tax, pays nearly SEK 1,500 more in tax per month than a worker in Österåker if they both earn SEK 25,000. The difference in tax is not due to Dorotea having the lattjolajbans and building concert halls and arenas for happy life while Österåker sucks on the frames. The difference is because Dorotea has challenges that Österåker, Vellinge, Täby and other low-tax municipalities lack. Dorotea is today the municipality with the second highest per inhabitant in the tax equalisation system and the municipality with the third highest costs per inhabitant. A resident in Dorotea might well ask: What the hell do I get for the money? It is not because they have a poor municipal service, but because they have to pay six tax crowns more than one resident in Österåker without getting more welfare for the money. The fewer they become in this migrating municipality, the fewer people will pay for their welfare together, because those who need care will remain. Last year, the Swedish National Audit Office reviewed the equalisation systems. The audit notes that income compensation is not complete. It's so it won't be growth retardant. The system we have today is therefore based on the assumption that a municipality with a high tax force will lean back and roll its thumbs if their tax surplus were to be redistributed more than it is today. When it comes to cost compensation, the Swedish National Audit Office notes that municipalities with a large area, small population numbers and a small proportion living in urban areas are undercompensated in all areas included in the cost compensation. Dorotea, with its approximately 2,500 inhabitants, of which almost 1,200 live outside the urban area divided into areas about the same size as Blekinge, is thus a loser in the equalization system, even though the municipality already belongs to those who receive the most. In addition, shrinking municipalities are undercompensated for costs in preschool, preschool and comprehensive school. A system that assumes that having a large redeployment is growth-inhibiting has the effect that municipalities with a low tax burden are lagging behind. Municipalities that are exodus places, have a high middle age and with challenges, such as my birthplace, have no chance today. How can they reverse their trend and become attractive municipalities that attract more residents when they are struggling with a structural problem? How can these municipalities create added value and growth when the system prioritises growth in municipalities with high tax rates? How are we going to get away from a situation where every fifth child grows up in indebted households in one municipality but every fifty children in another? Madam President, I would like If the whole of Sweden is to live, and all parties tend to argue, all municipalities must have a real opportunity for a functioning well-being. Rural communities must receive sufficient support to be able to develop and maintain their services or attract back those who have disappeared. It is to be welcomed that it is a united committee that now wants an investigation into the equalisation system to be set up. However, despite the fact that several studies have concluded that the system is not growth-inhibiting, including the one that is the basis of today's debate, the majority of committees want it to be an important part of the investigation. The Left Party therefore has a reservation of reasons, which I support. We believe that the levelling-up of the system is too low, which is shown not least by the fact that access to services is not equal and that there are too large differences in total municipal tax. The review should focus on developing a system that provides the conditions for ensuring equal municipal services and welfare throughout the country, regardless of which municipality you live in. In particular, the review should highlight the impact of demographic and structural changes in municipalities on the need for support. The Left Party considers that a more extensive redistribution between municipalities is needed and that the possibility of increased government funding needs to be investigated. Madam President, I would like It is time for us to have a levelling-up system that meets its purpose of equivalent service throughout the country, a levelling-up system that is more levelling-up and where the state is taking greater responsibility than it is today. It is important if the whole of Sweden is to live.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-161	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office produced a report this year that concluded with a question mark. The report had looked at whether local income compensation has a negative impact on growth. International economic research suggests that it may be that municipalities do not feel motivated to increase tax force because state subsidies then decrease and the fee becomes higher so that the profit so to speak is not so great. The review shows that there is no evidence to suggest that this is the case. The only conclusion to be drawn is that, according to economic theory, income equalisation could hamper incentives for growth. But the theory does not always reflect reality. It does not have to be about the theory being wrong; rather, the reality is perhaps more complex than that. On the other hand, it is a major problem that some municipalities today are in such a difficult position that they are in danger of failing to meet their commitments to their citizens. The differences in the conditions for offering equal service throughout our elongated country are great. In Sweden, we have a municipal levelling system for municipalities and regions to have the opportunity to offer healthcare, school and care on equal terms throughout the country. Last year we took an important step towards greater equivalence by redistributing costs. But we can and will do more. Another report from the Swedish National Audit Office shows that there is a need to even out even more. It points out that the existing levelling-up system does not provide the municipalities with a level playing field between themselves. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, the existing cost compensation does not take sufficient account of the cost differences between municipalities resulting from the area, the number of inhabitants and population changes between municipalities, as well as the socio-economic factors of large cities and metropolitan municipalities – factors that municipalities and regions cannot influence. Total space: Some municipalities currently find it difficult to provide their residents with an equivalent service without significant differences in tax rates. It doesn't make sense. I believe and hope that all of us in this House can agree that all municipalities should have the opportunity to provide all their inhabitants with good education, good conditions for growing up and good care for the elderly. For us Social Democrats, it is a basic bolt in our Swedish welfare building, and the equalization system is an important tool for the whole of Sweden to grow. Sweden should stick together, and we Social Democrats always protect a fair and equal welfare throughout the country. Madam President, I would like A more comprehensive review of the municipal equalisation system was carried out by 2008, and the changes made since then have only covered parts of the system. It is therefore a good thing that it is a united Committee on Finance that agrees to review the whole system and not just tinker in pieces. The municipal equalisation system consists of several different parts, but income equalisation plays the greatest role in creating a level playing field across the country. It is a system that will enable municipalities to have a more equal tax base to cope with welfare and all the other important social functions for which municipalities and regions are responsible. An overall review is necessary because screwing in part of the countervailing system also affects other parts. In relation to their own tax burden, the income compensation last year accounted for up to 12 per cent for the municipalities that received subsidies. Among the paying municipalities, the contributions to the system represented up to 6 per cent of their own tax base. The Swedish National Audit Office has also pointed out that a lower level of equalisation with greater income differentials between municipalities can have even worse effects on those municipalities that are already experiencing difficulties. Madam President, I would like After all, it is a number of years since we made a complete review of the equalisation system, so it should soon be time again. There is a need for regular review. It is good that there is broad agreement here today that the equalisation system should stimulate growth, development and equal service throughout the country. However, we would have liked to have waited a bit with an investigation. We think it is necessary, but given that we have recently changed the cost adjustment, we want to see how it works. We're also in the middle of a pandemic. These are very special times we live in now. Having said that, we Social Democrats think it is a good thing that we now have a decision to review the whole levelling-up system and that we can agree in broad agreement in an investigation that reviews exactly what I mentioned: growth, development and equal service throughout the country. It is important that the municipal equalisation system is developed in line with the development of society. We need to level out the inequalities that currently exist in the welfare of different parts of the country. Large tax differences between municipalities and regions where they are not linked to better service are not reasonable. Sweden should stick together. Our goal is to do everything we can to ensure that all municipalities are good municipalities and all regions are good regions. The efforts and opportunities of municipalities and regions are crucial for well-being and crucial for everyone to receive good care, education and health care. By continuing to strive for more equal conditions throughout the country, we can together build a stronger society. I support the proposal and reject the motions.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-178	Madam President, I would like The Swedish municipalities are always the last line of defence against social problems, especially when the state fails. It is municipalities with already large housing shortages that are forced to try to solve housing for new arrivals with very short notice. It is the municipalities that have to deal with the failed migration and integration policy and often provide new arrivals with subsistence support when they are not in work. It is the municipalities that have to try to provide security with security guards and other municipal measures when the state legal society fails. Not least, it is the municipalities and regions that will try to deal with the serious pandemic in a situation where the support and guidelines of the government and the authorities have, unfortunately, been sometimes both late, unclear and contradictory. The list can be made longer. The municipalities are always those who represent the basic welfare and guarantee the security of their inhabitants. It is also those who try to maintain a certain extent of public service when smaller towns are depopulated and urbanisation is going at a furious pace. This responsibility is forced on the local government sector to take full responsibility regardless of whether the state is involved in paying for it or not. Unfortunately, municipalities are sometimes forced to take responsibility even for things that are actually the task of the state, and it is not always they get the money it costs. Madam President, I would like The Moderates will always safeguard the ability of municipalities and regions to carry out their mission. This will require increased resources from the state, and it must be given priority in the state budget. Already at the beginning of this year, before the pandemic, we drove Moderates, together with several other parties, through more resources to the municipalities than the government was willing to provide. The 7.5 billion added to the local government sector has really been useful this year. Even during the pandemic, we have pushed for extra support for municipalities and regions. In the Moderates' budget for the coming years, we also give far greater state aid to the municipalities than the government and its support parties announce in their budget. For 2021 it is about 3.5 billion more than the government and the cooperation parties. For 2022, there are 8.5 billion more and for 2023 a total of 13.5 billion more than the government and cooperation parties add. We combine this with measures to counter municipal tax increases. More on this in next week's debate, when we debate the state contribution of the local government sector. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a large country with very different conditions. This also applies to our municipalities, which look completely different. As we heard earlier today, there is a difference of up to SEK 6 per hundred in municipal tax between the municipality with the lowest tax and the one with the highest tax. The fact that there is some redistribution of resources between municipalities is very reasonable. The important thing is that this is done in a way that creates the trust and legitimacy of both the municipalities that contribute to the system and the municipalities that receive money from the system and that the effects of the equalisation system do not hit the country's overall growth. So what we are debating today is the Swedish National Audit Office's review of whether there are growth-inhibiting incentives in the municipal income compensation. It turned out to be easier said than done to examine this, as it is difficult to isolate the effects from tax equalisation in particular from all other factors affecting growth and tax revenues in individual municipalities. The Swedish National Audit does not dismiss that this may be the case, but, as I said, there is no direct evidence. However, it describes that there has been a long-standing concern that income compensation has a negative impact on municipalities' incentives and that international research also confirms this concern and that it is clear in economic theory that there is a risk of such adverse side effects. Madam President, I would like The municipal levelling system has changed many times over the years. The Riksdag has decided to change both the income compensation, which is the large part, and the cost compensation, which forms a smaller part. With every change in the system, we have tended on the moderate side to promote balanced changes, which will enable receiving municipalities to function without over-disadvantaging the growth municipalities. The equalisation system must also not have undesirable marginal effects on municipalities, which, for example, manage to get people to move from subsidies to work, which is an extremely important task. And of course, the system must not adversely affect overall Swedish growth. We Moderates have also worked to ensure that changes in the systems are not too rapid and dramatic and that all the municipalities concerned must have a reasonable opportunity to influence and plan their own activities. For several years, the Moderates have also considered that it is time to take a holistic approach to the equalisation system. Last year, at this time, I made this moderate demand. The equalisation system is a whole and has tremendous economic importance for both contributing and receiving municipalities. It is now 12 years since the Alliance Government initiated a thorough review of the entire equalisation system; it was done in 2008. In a follow-up motion to the Government's letter in response to the Swedish National Audit Office's review, we suggested Moderates that the Government should urgently set up a review of the entire municipal equalisation system, which takes into account in particular the impact of the system on municipalities and regions that are growing and the impact on growth throughout the country. After discussions in committee, I note that a united Finance Committee is now behind giving the government such a mandate: to carry out a broad review focusing on development, growth and equivalent services throughout the country. I am very pleased that the committee is taking this line. At the same time, on the moderate side, we are very concerned about the development of the municipalities and regions in the coming years. We believe that the state should gradually take greater responsibility for ensuring good conditions for the funding of welfare. This is one of the reasons why we moderates in the budget for the coming years spend more money on the local government sector than the government and cooperation parties. We give this priority over other things in the state budget. However, we also believe that a review of the countervailing system should examine whether the State should perhaps assume overall responsibility for the whole system. With this, I would like to support the proposals that have been tabled.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-200	Madam President, I would like I venture to guess that this debate will not be entirely clear or easy for an outsider to understand. It will probably sound in many ways like we all want the same thing, and to some extent this is true. I would like to say that there is no party that does not want an equalisation system in Sweden. Whether I meet my constituents at home in Dalarna or if I talk to voters from Stockholm, everyone wants the whole country to live and there will be basic service and welfare throughout the country. There is agreement on these fundamental principles of tax equalisation. The political conflict is not about this. Madam President, I would like It's when we drill a little deeper that it's different. What do we mean, the whole country will live? What do we mean by the availability of basic services? And what do we mean by access to welfare services throughout the country? I am pleased that the Committee on Finance is now moving on to demand that the Government set up an investigation to look at the entire tax equalisation system. Not infrequently, the debate is about the struggle of municipalities and regions when it comes to the economy and how many billions need to be spent for the operations to work – what money is needed to make it a little more equal. Because we do not have an equal local government sector and equal relations between the different regions of the country at present. It is not today an acceptable difference we see in tax rates between the municipalities that are forced to have the highest level and those that have the lowest. We need structural reforms that enable the country's municipalities to deliver basic welfare with a similar tax charge. The difference today, as has been said, is nearly $6, and that is not acceptable. However, the unfairness of paying more tax for the same welfare offer is even greater, since large parts of the public commitment are not available at all in the places where the highest tax is paid. Everyone who has to pay for their own way, ensure their own broadband connection or join forces to save the village school knows this. Madam President, I would like The bill that came into place after the investigation A little more like took a few steps in the right direction. We believe that these were sensible considerations that formed the basis for the new bases of calculation in terms of sparseness and certain socio-economic factors. On the whole, we got a slightly more balanced system. But an equalization is about balance, and in many ways it is a zero-sum game; if someone wins, someone else loses. Although it is difficult, we must strike a balance between the legitimate demands of the growth municipalities to deliver welfare in a growth phase and in rural municipalities and smaller, less populated municipalities' legitimate desire and need to deliver welfare even in such situations. Madam President, I would like It is possible to find a new and better system than what we have today, where we have patched and fixed a lot. The Center Party notes that the last investigation was tasked with reviewing the municipal levelling. It was 2008, as several have mentioned, when the so-called Equalisation Committee was set up.08 It is high time to review the system again. The Center Party wants to see a tax equalisation system based on a series of fundamental principles. The system should be based on a guaranteed level of service throughout the country. At the same time, it needs to be designed to create incentives for entrepreneurship, jobs and growth. It must pay for a municipality to make reforms that strengthen entrepreneurship and job creation, rather than deprive municipalities of responsibility for their economic policies. For many sparsely populated municipalities, however, it is clear that structural conditions exist that make it difficult to cope with the need for municipal services without a system of tax equalisation. Therefore, there is a need to take greater account of sparseness within the scope of the countervailing system. For a long time we have seen governments making use of an ever-richer variety of targeted state subsidies. This fundamentally undermines local self-government. The targeted state grants must be sought, creating difficulties for small municipalities with limited administrative resources to apply for these grants. Reviewing the municipal tax equalisation system is not an easy matter. I myself was involved in the cost equalisation inquiry, whose report was named a little more alike. We should know that the cost compensation affects perhaps 10% of the entire tax equalisation system. Was there any criticism of the cost compensation system and the proposal? Yes, there was massive criticism, even though, in my opinion, almost half of the changes in the cost equalisation system were related to the recalculation of statistics, something that is done far too rarely. In fact, I would like us to be able to send out the parameters that are to be included in the system for referrals, and that is the way to think about them. When there are phone calls from the municipal councillor, they have browsed to the last page of the investigation and checked if it will be plus or minus for the municipality, and then be for or against the system. This is how municipal and regional councils work. This will therefore be a difficult issue. We also knew this when the previous tax equalisation system was reviewed. But it has to be done-- we can't wait. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-215	Madam President, I would like In the municipalities we build Sweden, said Christian Democrats' first party leader Birger Ekstedt. How right he was! It is out in Kommunsverige that welfare is built and we create the conditions for a good life and also take responsibility, often in a pragmatic spirit, for the social problems that arise. But we also see that municipalities have different conditions – that there are different concerns that make it more difficult or easier to take on these tasks. Several of the previous speakers have pointed this out. A year ago, the Christian Democrats in a motion suggested that we review tax equalisation as a whole again to see how we could make it easier for all municipalities in Sweden to take the responsibility that they so want to take to create good conditions for growth, welfare and the opportunity to live a good life. This happened when we reviewed the cost compensation and got a proposal to change the cost compensation system. It was in many ways reasonable changes that were proposed, but it was fast, and for many municipalities it meant significantly changed planning conditions. You got minus where you thought you'd have plus. Not least, it was municipalities that faced major challenges in terms of developing preschools and infrastructure that saw that there were very clear changes. This was one reason why a broader review was needed again, because Sweden has changed since the last review. That is why I am very pleased that, with some delay, we and several other parties are now being asked to carry out a proper, thorough and complete review of the system. In this context, we would like to point out that we need to get away from the large differences in municipal taxes. Municipal taxes keep creeping upwards and have negative effects on work and on the ability to manage on your own salary and income. This must be a parameter included in the review. It is necessary to create better conditions for not having to watch taxes crawl up all the time. Taxes hit them hardest with the lowest incomes. This is an important thing to take with you into work. Not least the small municipalities have great concerns and challenges. We must find ways to avoid the tax equalisation system becoming a battle between city and country. Instead, the state may have to go in and assume a greater responsibility than in the current system, also in order to increase the legitimacy of this important system of equalisation, which we really need. There is also reason to consider whether a regional tax equalisation model could not be used. Today, many people work in one municipality but live in another. After all, these municipalities benefit mutually from each other without it being reflected in the system of equalisation. This is an aspect that I think should be taken into account and examined in more detail in an equalisation system. But, Madam President, let me sum up. This is urgent and important. It is about giving municipalities good conditions, regardless of where in the country they are located, what demographics look like and what the future looks like, actually doing what is all of Sweden's municipalities' main tasks: ensuring that there is a well-being for citizens to trust when they need, that there are opportunities to grow and develop and that everyone can contribute to the community that we so badly need. I support the committee's proposal.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-224	Madam President, I would like Sweden is an elongated country with very different conditions in different parts. It is about geography and not least about demography. Over time, we have experienced large differences in population composition in different parts of the country, and in the future, the differences will increase. In order to manage this wisely, so that all citizens wherever they live will have access to a good public service, be a clear part of the public contract and also be able to feel emotionally that you are part of it, an active policy is needed in several areas. The levelling-up system that exists and involves cost equalisation and income equalisation is a central part of that policy. That's not all, but it's a central part. When Sweden changes, it is reasonable that the systems also develop. That is why, recently, a proper analysis of the cost adjustment was made, and a couple of important changes were made, where we strengthened the impact. We strengthened the transfer from richer municipalities in the metropolitan regions to the more sparsely built parts of our country to improve access to services in those parts. But we cannot be satisfied. There are municipalities in Sweden where public services are very clearly lacking. As has been pointed out by many in this House – I am pleased that this is being made so clear – there are also municipalities where the municipal tax has become too high. It is not something that I blame on the local politicians in question, because they want to do their best and try to deliver public services, but it is a structural development that we in Parliament need to take very seriously. We have previously in Sweden had exceptions in the system based on a socio-economic theory, but I dare say that it is even more based on friendship and the promotion of municipalities with preferably many bourgeois voters. We have now reviewed this once again – we have done it over and over again – and that theory has not proved to have a very strong connection to reality. I very much hope that we can close that chapter and say that it was a parenthesis. Nevertheless, there is reason to look at this, because the country is continuing to develop. On behalf of the Green Party, we did not see that this was an emergency. I think we meant something could wait. But there is a majority in the Committee on Finance for us to do this now, and we agree with the reality statement and we have nothing against a review. I think it will be a crucial issue for Sweden in the future that we work with access to public services throughout the country. Then it has to be financed. I also see that these issues need to be a significant factor in the larger tax review announced in January. The differences in taxation are such an issue, where one should look at how we can build a tax system capable of financing the welfare of the entire population and the whole country in the future, not least in the light of what we can expect demographically. We must expect a larger proportion of the population to be older, and I mean older people in the sense that it is people who are old and sick and need support from society in different ways. We must be able to finance this in the future. So I think it is wise for us to do this review, but it is also important that we remember that this is a factor that we need to address in the larger tax review and in other parts of our policy, so that we can gather together to safeguard the function of welfare in Sweden and live up to the reasonable expectations of citizens around Sweden. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-233	Madam President, I would like I really have no objection that Karolina Skog thinks the investigation is good. But I get very thoughtful when I hear environmentalists regret the structural development of our society. It is, of course, the very reason why we actually need to have a tax equalisation system and that some municipalities feel rather bad. Then one must also see what structural development depends on and actually try to counteract it with all its policies. The Green Party is doing the opposite. I am thinking mainly of two areas. One area is that the Green Party is pushing for government policy with very high taxes on transport. It hits commuting and entrepreneurship directly. This leads directly to increased urbanisation. People with education and jobs move to other places because living in rural areas is expensive. This leads to the destruction of small businesses in rural areas. And this leads directly to the loss of fiscal power in the affected municipalities. The second area, which also directly hits the poor municipalities, is the irresponsible migration policy that the Green Party stands for. There are very large numbers of people who need support from society. These people are seeking, as several have said before, to the municipalities where there are vacant dwellings because other people have moved. It is often the excluded municipalities that have huge problems and many empty homes. That's where many of the new arrivals end up. This means that they do not come to work but must be supported by the municipalities. That's how you get a vicious circle. One loses tax power and needs more and more support. My question to Karolina Skog is: Does the Green Party not realise that it is its own policy that contributes to the structural development of Sweden's municipalities?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-237	Madam President, I would like I am very grateful that I am once again given the opportunity to clarify how unfair the policy on the maintenance of the car that the Moderates have built up is for Swedish sparsely populated areas. In moderate politics it is like this, and it is a policy that has existed for a long time: rural people pay for urban residents commuting to work. They pay when the big city people buy the car. They pay when the big city people drive the car. They pay when the big city people park the car. All these elements are heavily subsidised. This subsidy goes mainly to people who live in crane municipalities around our big cities. These are people who, on average, have very good incomes. This is unjust. From the Green Party we have used the power we have received in the government to review all these systems. We are reviewing the travel allowance so that we can get a travel allowance that gets the purpose it is intended to be. The aim is to make it possible to live and work throughout the country, not to give a subsidy to our big cities. The service car system will change accordingly. What remains is that we need to get to the very large subsidies that are also available for parking, which above all have an impact in our big cities. I can imagine – and the Green Party is strongly in favour of this – to make it possible to live and live through various types of subsidies, including driving a car, in rural areas. With great pride, however, I devote much of my political power to preventing subsidies for driving in cities.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-242	Madam President, I would like I note that I did not receive an answer on migration policy, but I think it has its explanations. Perhaps even the Green Party realizes that you are on the wrong track. But when it comes to the issue of company cars, the Green Party's line is based on total ignorance of what it actually looks like. It is said in all seriousness that everyone who has a company car lives in a big city. It has been overlooked that this is wrong. The business cars are usually registered to the company, which has its head office in the city. But whoever drives the company car lives in the country and depends on the car. So you're basing your policy on false facts and you're not familiar with what it looks like in reality. It's the same with the travel allowance. I myself have looked at the proposals on travel expenses and I can see that they are hitting hard on people living in rural areas. It's not just about people living far out in rural areas. I live between Gothenburg and Borås, 20 minutes from Gothenburg city centre. I have half a mile to the nearest bus stop. That's what it looks like in the country. All people at home in my village depend on a car. Most people can't afford to buy an electric car. They're driving on regular cars. Our municipality is completely dependent on commuting. If people can't commute, we'll have problems in our community. Then we will need to have more state funding to be able to pull around the municipal service. The Green Party should read and see what reality looks like in reality and not just in the Party's own models. The policy of the Green Party is unfortunately hitting the small municipalities in the country. It makes them much more economically sensitive. They lose tax power and have to raise their taxes. That's what it looks like.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-247	Madam President, I would like I can only say briefly that everything I have referred to here is based on data from government agencies, including the Swedish Tax Agency. I will, of course, also say a few words about migration and where people go. Then I will mention what I did not actually mention in my speech. These are the issues of social dumping. We have recently received a report from Statskontoret showing that municipalities with great fiscal power – to a large extent they are municipalities led by moderate representatives – systematically point out and identify people who are in different ways weak. It's about addicts. It is about new arrivals and about other people who need the support of society. These people are systematically forced out of their municipalities. They are forced into municipalities where the labour market is weaker and where the ability to take care of them and offer them help is weaker. Mr Ericson wants to make it appear that people are going to these places where there is no work. Now we have proof that it is not entirely true. It is moderate politicians who sit and make plans and who systematically use social services legislation, among other things, in a way that it is absolutely not supposed to be used and force weak groups out of the growth municipalities to municipalities where there is no labour market. It's cynical.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-250	Madam President, I would like I thank the previous speaker. It is very good and important that has been said in this discussion. For the Liberals, it is – and there seems to be a clear majority for this in the Swedish parliament – extremely important that you can live a good life and expect good public services regardless of where in the country you live. Madam President, I would like What is important, however, is that politics makes a difference. That is why we devote much of our lives to politics, and that is why there are people throughout the country who devote much of their time to politics in the local and regional areas. It has previously been argued in the speaker's chair that the levelling-up system and our policy of ensuring that there is good service throughout the country would be a zero-sum game. Actually, I'm not doing that. It is clear that the policy one pursues in one's municipality affects what conditions one has to offer a good service. The system we are discussing today has been subjected to far too much patching and repairing. There is certainly a need for a holistic approach. There is simply a need for a review that examines and looks at all kinds of aspects. A system is needed to compensate for certain structural differences that exist between municipalities and regions, but we should not believe that politics makes no distinction between local, regional and municipal. If you compare two extremes, a municipality with very good conditions and a municipality with very poor conditions to offer its citizens services, you will be able to point to the structures and say: This is only about structures. But if you compare two municipalities that have good conditions or two municipalities that have less favourable conditions, you can see that there are differences in the public service they manage to offer. There are differences in the climate for growth and entrepreneurship that has been created even between municipalities that have fairly similar conditions. Madam President, I would like For this reason, it is clear that such a system, which is really needed, must also take account of the fact that politicians, locally and regionally, must be able to pursue policies in order to make business better. This must be done in order to improve the conditions for prosperity even in a municipality that has scarce conditions from the beginning, so that the municipality can stand on its own feet more than it could in the past. There are good examples of this. Dorotea has been mentioned earlier in the debate. Dorotea is a municipality where you have had tough structural conditions from the beginning, but you are working very clearly to strengthen them. It works to strengthen the local business community, to strengthen the municipality and to ensure that you can stand on your own feet. It is clear, Madam President, that we support this. We do this because we believe that good service is needed throughout the country. All of Sweden's citizens must be able to trust that they can live a good life right where they live. We also do so with a belief in local politics and in the fact that structural differences between municipalities are not everything. We must also have a system in which we do not hamper either growth or those who pursue economic, social or school policies which will make the conditions a little better tomorrow than they are today.
i-KYDjmw1arx3f17VzxhFZ8Q	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, Minister Mikael Damberg and Minister Peter Eriksson. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Social Affairs Lena Hallengren answers both general policy questions and questions within her own area of responsibility.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-260	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Hallengren. Only a few hours ago, a debate was opened in this House on the most vulnerable children. The debate was prompted, among other things, by the fact that we Moderates have submitted a committee initiative on vulnerable children. Little heart has become a symbol of them. Wherever we look right now, we unfortunately see many testimonies about what the situation in Sweden looks like for the most vulnerable children. It could be family homes, HVB, LSS or Sis homes to name a few. When it comes to government proposals, the lists of proposals are very empty – and have been gaping for many years.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-265	Madam President, I would like I thank Camilla Grönvall for the question. We have discussed this issue many times. I would like to say that the dialogue has not been greater on many other issues, except the pandemic, over the past year. I myself have spoken in the Committee on Social Affairs on several occasions. Everyone in the committee who has debated the issue today knows that matters and decisions are on the table of Parliament dealing with the competence of public assistants and the issue of examining custody transferred annually as the first proposal. There are only a few months left until the government investigators come back with proposals that should really take into account and take into account the best interests of the child. That is something we have talked about many times. To do so and to feel that we all know something about what we are talking about is one thing, but to make sure that it is also clear in the legislation when it comes to the transfer of custody, we intend to come back to as soon as the investigation submits its proposal at the end of February. I look forward to that dialogue.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-268	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. It doesn't help to talk when there aren't strong suggestions on the table. What is sad to note is that there have been no less than three investigations in recent years. One came back in 2015. These proposals have been put in the drawer by the government. It was only when we Moderates presented the committee initiative that something happened. Why have not already prepared proposals been used?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-270	Madam President, I would like I'm still surprised at the tone. This is an issue in which I do not feel that there are differences of opinion but that is worth it. The conference, which is now working and which will present proposals on 28 February on how to weigh the best interests of the child when we talk about the transfer of custody, will play a major role. It is more difficult than it might sound to really make sure that there are judgments that go in that direction. The first decision that I myself had the opportunity to sign was the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a Swedish law. It was a decision that unfortunately not all parties voted for, including Camilla Waltersson Grönvall.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-273	Madam President, I would like In its opinion on the Migration Committee's report, the Pension Authority notes that the proposed migration policy will affect pension contributions and pension expenditure. It refers to its own report from 2016, which already stated that the net present value per asylum immigrant within the pension system is at 800 000 SEK. So that's the net cost. In pure Swedish, this means that immigrants who come here do not work and pay enough tax to guarantee their own future pension, let alone contribute to the Swedish pension system. My question to Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren is quite simple against this background, provided, of course, that the government trusts its own pension authority: how does the government view the fact that migration policy is completely eroding Swedish pensions?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-276	Madam President, I would like That the question is so simple, I am not prepared to agree. The fact that the Swedish Democrats constantly find an excuse to talk about migration policy regardless of problems in society is certainly not news. If the whole migration policy is to be discussed, we have the Minister for Migration in place in this House. When it comes to the question of how the entire pension system should develop, stay together and be sustainable in the long term, I know that the Pensions Group is working hard. This is urgent work. We have every reason to ensure that we have a pension system that lasts over time and covers all the citizens of our country.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-278	Madam President, I would like These are not my views, they are facts from the Pension Agency 2016 and 2017 and SOU 2015:95. Although the study after study concludes that migration is a net cost for the Swedish pension system, why does the government make a different public financial assessment than the Pension Authority and other authorities, as well as the empirical and expertise available in this area today?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-279	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I believe that if Dennis Dioukarev wishes to continue the discussion on the financing of the Swedish pension system, it is appropriate to put the question to Minister of Social Security Ardalan Shekarabi.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-281	Madam President, I would like In Helsingborg they have the same problems with the spread of infection as the neighbouring town of Helsingör. During the summer and autumn I have been asked by many people not least in South Sweden how it is that the Swedish government does not do like the Danish government, namely in the face of tougher restrictions and closures. I would say, Madam President, that there is a general wonder in South Sweden when you see the differences. The answer is that the Swedish government and the Swedish state have lacked pandemic legislation, despite the fact that the pandemic has been going on for ten months. We have not acquired the tools needed to handle covid-19. You've been content with the Alcohol Act and the Order Act. My question to Minister Lena Hallengren is: Why did you let the pandemic plague our country for ten months before you – only after the Center Party launched an initiative in the Social Committee – come and say that there will be legislation?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-285	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Anders Åkesson! The Pandemine certainly torments our country, but I do not share the view that throughout the spring we would have been somewhat nudged and refrained from taking tough measures. If we recall spring, I think we can all say that our everyday lives were restricted. Students were allowed to study remotely, and people started working at home. They were large sick leave numbers because people stayed at home at the slightest symptoms, because that was the signal. It was quite empty on streets and squares, in restaurants and in cultural and sports life, and when you got into a car to go somewhere you were quite alone on the roads. We saw quite immediately a change in behavior. That is not what we are seeing now, and we have therefore been working on the Pandemic Act throughout the autumn. I would also like to say that it is one thing to close down activities – I do not want to say that it is neither simple nor perhaps the most appropriate – but that the vision of the pandemic legislation the government now intends to develop is more focused on being able to regulate different activities. Because we will have to live with the pandemic for a long time to come.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-288	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, there is the time aspect, the Government. A lot of people are wondering. Well, now we hope that the legislation will be in place in the spring, which is the timetable that is communicated. Then the question is: what is the government thinking about the question of compensation? Here, therefore, a tool will be provided to shut down activities. There is a majority in the Riksdag to drive the government ahead of it, but how should you handle the activities you close down? That'll be the next question. Will there be proposals for this in the legislation?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-290	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Åkesson, who represents the Center Party – a party with which we work very well! This applies not least to the 12 additional amending budgets we have presented together in this very tough year. Negotiations are also under way on further measures and actions, and I look forward to them continuing. Anticipating costs and being able to enter it into legislation is much more complicated, but of course we have to deal with consequences whether they affect people because of the pandemic or because of the consequences we can see. Welcome also to the work of drafting this legislation!
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-293	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Eriksson. If the first two billion doses of covid vaccines were to benefit the whole world, worldwide mortality would decrease by 61%. If the 50 richest countries take these doses, mortality will only decrease by 33%. It is clear that the countries buying up the vaccine are the rich countries, which will not have the global effect we need. On 2 October, India and South Africa submitted to the WTO a proposal to exempt certain patents, trade secrets or pharmaceutical monopolies. There was a great deal of support for developing countries. The EU and Sweden opposed this proposal, despite the fact that Sweden can take its own stand on this issue. On 16 and 17 December, Sweden will have the chance to say yes, for the good of all. How will you respond, Minister Eriksson?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-296	Madam President, I would like I can tell you that the Swedish attitude has always been that we should ensure that the whole world has the opportunity to take part of the vaccines. We have run it in many different ways, including through international organisations such as Gavi and Covax. We have invested a lot of resources in Gavi and put in another 100 million in addition to those we contribute annually there. In addition, we have worked within the EU to ensure that good resources are created, and today we have allocated SEK 7 billion from the EU to a common pot that will reach poor countries so that we get vaccines to them. The efforts we make and have made – including the procurement of vaccines – have made vaccines come much faster to the whole world. I believe that the work we have contributed to will benefit everyone.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-298	Madam President, I would like The thing is that we will not have enough opportunities to create the huge volumes that will actually be needed to cover the whole world. Agreeing to the proposal would make larger volumes available – and make them available where they are needed. Does the Minister not agree that it would be good to eradicate the infection rapidly throughout the world, both from an economic and from a humanistic point of view?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-299	Madam President, I would like I would like to remind you once again that it is thanks to the European efforts, through the European Union, that we have produced a vaccine today. It is this procurement that makes it so much faster and that there are already factories that are ready to produce. Otherwise, there would not have been, and then this would have taken much longer. In addition, we have procured larger volumes, allowing us to pass on a large part of the vaccines that come to the EU and Sweden to other countries.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-301	Madam President, I would like In August, the Government appointed a delegation to increase access to healthcare, i.e. short-term care queues. The Christian Democrats welcome the fact that the government is making national decisions. Just hoping that 21 regions on their own will be able to cope with the situation does not work, but coordination and common ground are needed in order for us to cope with the situation. The latest figures in the waiting time database show that in October more than 115,000 patients had expected more than 90 days of surgery or the visit to specialised care that they need. The pandemic means that we need to postpone planned treatment, but the queues were long already before the pandemic. The mission to the delegation is therefore not simple, but it is necessary.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-304	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Acko Ankarberg! It is certainly as you describe: coordination and joint action are really what is required, not only during the pandemic but also, of course, in dealing with both the care postponed during the pandemic and, of course, the challenge we had since before. Let me remind you that many regions, not to say everyone, had nevertheless moved in a positive direction before the pandemic. More and more people made sure that more people received care on time than at the corresponding time in the year before. As a result, more and more people benefited from the redesigned accessibility billions. As far as the accessibility delegation is concerned, it has begun its work in the autumn. The idea was that it would contribute to the regular work, and when the pandemic came it became of course even more important. The delegation is simply working on and has not come very far in its work yet, but I look forward to it being able to change up its work and both to provide support to the regions and, of course, to reconnect with the government and the Riksdag on proposals that we could implement.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-307	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Social Affairs. I am well aware that the delegation has fixed times when it will report back, but I think that those times are less important and that the work that has started is more important. It is clear that we should have regional action plans so that it is precisely that general plan that the government wants to get. There was no news of what was happening, but I assume that, despite the pandemic, we can work together to bring down the care queues. This is necessary for both patients and healthcare professionals. If we are faced with the fact that this continues, that is not a good thing.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-309	Madam President, I would like After all, the pandemic continues; no doubt so. Right now, pressure is strong on our health departments, both in intensive care and in other health departments. The regions must, of course, deal with the covid care necessary to save life and health, and they must, in parallel, ensure that no more care is cancelled than necessary. It turned out that in this situation fewer people need to cancel treatments, surgery and surgery than it was last spring. Let us hope that we are able to keep the spread of infection down, so that health care does not face too tough a challenge!
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-311	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. Has the government received the go-ahead from the Swedish Data Protection Authority that it is possible to co-ordinate the vaccination register, the drug adverse event register and the health records in order to investigate whether a report on suspected adverse reactions to covid-19 vaccines can be confirmed or dismissed? I hope we do not get any serious reports, but if we do, they will have to be investigated without delay. In this respect, data legislation must not put obstacles in the way. I put the question to the Medical Products Agency on Tuesday, and the answer was that the question is on the government table.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-313	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Westerholm, for raising the issue here and now and for raising it in the Social Affairs Committee and with the Medical Products Agency on Tuesday. This issue is on the table with the government, and I can assure both Mr Westerholm and others that we must resolve it. After all, we cannot deal with the issue of registers and possible side effects without ensuring that they are coordinated. This issue is to be resolved.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-314	Madam President, I would like My concern stems from the criticism made by the Swedish Data Protection Authority against the vaccination register that it was not fully investigated. We decided yesterday in Parliament on this register. Nothing must tangle or delay here; this is too serious.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-315	Madam President, I would like I fully share that view.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-316	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Lena Hallengren. A moderate-led coalition has been running Huddinge for almost 15 years. The result is, among other things, that Huddinge has a teacher density that belongs to the lowest in the country, fewer students who meet the knowledge requirements and a sick absence that belongs to the highest in the country. Moreover, the Coronapandemia has exposed shortcomings in, not least, care for the elderly. The Social Democratic-led government has provided large resources for welfare; for Huddinge, it is about 224 million. The Moderates' response in Huddinge is to reduce the tax by 27 million and to decide at an extraordinary board meeting with a week's notice, in the midst of the current pandemic, to close the municipal home service. My question to the Minister is: how do you see a whole municipal home service with 750 users and 160 employees to save money while reducing taxes and, at the same time, the government has invested money – large resources – in improving welfare?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-320	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Leif Nysmed, for the question and for paying attention to it. I am rather concerned about what might happen in the shadow of the pandemic, if the expression may be used. Some may take the opportunity to change in an activity in a way that is quite obviously detrimental to the home care user and has a need for home care and that misses its continuity when it is allowed to change staff. I think the uncertainty is quite great. I can only really emphasise that when the government and the cooperation parties chose to target SEK 4 billion to Sweden's elderly care to use based on what the needs look like, the intention was not to make cuts.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-323	Madam President, I would like It is quite remarkable that in the municipality, despite the large contributions you receive, you actually make such decisions. This creates great concern among the elderly who are users, but also a great concern among those in the staff who have been primarily in the pandemic and fought against it and ensured that care has worked well. The fact that the staff is now being laid off in the middle of the whole thing is very remarkable. I don't know what to say-- it's a huge scandal, even doing it on such short notice. I think something's been missed.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-324	Let me remind you that this is a general policy issue or a matter relating to the performance of the duties of the Government.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-325	Madam President, I would like Swedish elderly care has certainly come into focus during the pandemic, and that is also why the government and the cooperation parties have taken several measures during the past year. This is about SEK 3.4 billion in next year for an elderly care lift in order to be able to work and study at the same time and get the necessary skills. A resource supplement of 4 billion is a lot of money. The purpose of this is, of course, to improve care for the elderly – to remove shared tours, to improve staffing and to hire more staff. I think it is incredibly important that we say together that this is the purpose.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-327	Madam President, I would like In 2016, the Committee on Civil Liberties held a public hearing on social media marketing. Since 2016, a lot has happened. The Swedish Tax Agency's website provides guidance on how bloggers and influencers should report and pay taxes on their income from the internet and social media – income in the form of money but also very often in the form of free products. I would like to dwell a little on the phenomenon of paying with products. This is a very common way for companies to get free marketing that the person who will then market the product needs to estimate for – the product for which payment is to be estimated. Even if the payment is made with a product, and not with salary, the person is counted as an employee. My question to Minister of Home Affairs Mikael Damberg, who may look a little surprised, is whether – and how – the Swedish Financial Crime Agency is working to ensure that these companies pay employers' and social security contributions for their employees.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-330	Madam President, I would like I'll be honest and say that I don't know exactly how the Swedish Environmental Crime Agency works on this issue; I'll be happy to find out in the future. However, I think it is important that all the authorities have to ensure that Swedish legislation is complied with, that people who are taxable do not avoid paying taxes and that there is no black or grey market that distorts competition and makes it difficult for serious entrepreneurs and traders to carry out their business. I am allowed to take this question with me, because I do not have an answer to it today.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-332	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have not prepared the Government for this issue, but I think it is important that it should be raised. It has recently become clear that this is exactly what is happening. It is tax fraud, and it is cheating with our common assets. I would almost say it's a form of undeclared work. I thank the Government for taking this issue with it. We must simply continue the dialogue.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-336	Madam President, I would like It is worrying to hear that children are being recruited into criminal gangs in Sweden. The problem has spread all over the country. The municipalities that have previously been spared gang crime are no longer. Municipalities like Mora and Borlänge in Dalarna are no longer the exception. Police and social services are now seeing an increased problem of drug trafficking. Older youths take advantage of younger ones to deal, and more end up in addiction and addiction. Common factors are a failure in schooling and a failure in parents' ability.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-339	Madam President, I would like I share Malin Höglund's concern about this type of recruitment. This is, of course, about working on several different fronts. The police must have their resources – we now have more police officers than we have ever had in Sweden, and this will be strengthened gradually in the coming years with the major efforts that we are making. Social services must also have their resources, and I think it is very good that we are giving the local government sector so much more money that this year we are actually expecting a surplus of over SEK 40 billion. I hope that the local government sector can use some of this money to make preventive efforts, for example to stop recruitment. We also need to do more on the legislative side. I have therefore asked the President of the Court of Appeal, Anders Perklev, to investigate whether we can do more in relation to, among other things, the criminal aspect of those targeting and recruiting this type of youth. There is a report for me this spring, and I am prepared to proceed with new measures.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-341	Madam President, I would like It is good that you take this seriously, because we see that it is a major problem today. It is not only in the metropolitan regions that this is a problem, but it is spreading out in rural areas.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-342	Madam President, I would like We have no differences of opinion on this. It is important for us to point out all the time that, if we are to uproot organised crime with its roots, it is both a question of law enforcement – like all the penalties we have raised, everything we do in terms of camera surveillance and everything we do in terms of strengthening the police, the Prosecutor's Office and others involved in law enforcement – and of preventing crime, that is to say, of ensuring that we also have social policies that reduce the risk of young people being recruited into this crime.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-344	Madam President, I would like The Financial Times reported last week on corruption linked to the UNDP and the GEF. Sweden is one of the largest donors to UNDP as well as to the fund and the like Green Climate Fund. These funds are designed to create a better environment, not least through the restoration of degraded land. Sweden is one of the largest donors, as I said, with for example 4 billion to the GCF. These huge amounts of money, of course, invite corruption, which is why the apparatus around the funds takes a huge amount of time and costs a lot of money. I think we would have more plants in the ground – it's a lot about afforestation – and create better conditions for future wood processing and employment if we drove more of these projects bilaterally and perhaps in cooperation with, for example, the FAO. Therefore, my question is: Should Sweden not run a larger proportion of the restoration projects directly and exploit Swedish expertise both from Swedish companies and from agricultural universities? Swedish forestry is the world leader.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-348	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. Sweden may be one of the reasons why this news came out in the Financial Times last week, I think it was. The indication of possible corruption in one of the UNDP's projects in Russia was a novelty a few years ago. Then we made very tough demands from Sweden and me at UNDP to investigate this and to let an actor alongside, who did not have ties to the organisation, do this. The report has now arrived. I think it is good that it has arrived. It shows that there have been shortcomings in the action of the UNDP. But that really has nothing to do with the GEF.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-351	Madam President, I would like I am also pleased about that. It was stated in the article in the Financial Times that it was an internal audit that had found this, and it is also gratifying. But the problem is not, it is that this is very cumbersome, takes a lot of time and does not provide the direct contact needed to develop trade in these countries. The OECD notes that only 1% of Sweden's aid goes to industry in the countries receiving the money, while the OECD average is 7%. Parts of these restoration projects could also become the engine of a future business community. That's why I think you should keep working with them.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-354	Madam President, I would like I can agree with Mats Nordberg that it may be interesting that we, from Sweden, are pushing forward projects that have to do with environmental development and planting and restoration of forests bilaterally or in other ways than through the major funds and UN organisations. Therefore, I have taken the initiative to introduce biodiversity as a more important part of the Swedish bilateral strategies and also to fund them through Swedish Sida.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-356	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Peter Eriksson. Now that we are in a situation with covid-19, we know that women who are victims of violence in close relationships or in other vulnerability are even more at risk of being affected and also more difficult to seek help. This is not only true in Sweden, but we know that outside the country's borders, apart from conservative forces, covid-19 makes it even more difficult for women. Every eleven seconds a woman or newborn child dies during childbirth, and 25 million unsafe abortions are performed, and covid-19 exacerbates it. How can we, with our assistance, help and support women around the world in this vulnerable situation?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-360	Madam President, I would like This is one of the top priorities for Swedish aid. To a large extent, it is possible to support women and young girls who are affected by both domestic violence and genital injuries due to old traditions that are not positive at all but are very harmful. In the autumn, we have provided additional funding to both UN organisations and our own SRHR strategy in sub-Saharan Africa to strengthen this work. It is quite right that things have gotten worse. We have had increased problems during the pandemic when it comes to domestic violence and also when it comes to circumcisions.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-363	Madam President, I would like Yeah, that's troubling. Fewer people are already seeking maternal care, and this in turn leads to a significantly higher risk of maternal mortality. Although we provide resources and have strategies, the challenge during a pandemic is to reach out with them. In what way does the government ensure that this really reaches all the way through and is not just fine words in a speaker's chair?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-365	Madam President, I would like We received a report from the OECD the other year that Sweden is leading in this area. We reach out to the poorest people in the world. In this area too, Sida and the Swedish work via the embassies are very effective. I think we can be sure that we are doing an effective and good job that reaches out to young girls and women around the world to secure their rights and a feminist foreign policy.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-367	Madam President, I would like The largest organisations for women's and girls' shelters, Roks and Unizon, have decided that their activities will no longer include transgender people. A person whose perceived gender is no longer in line with the legal situation now has far less opportunity for support and assistance as a victim of crime.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-370	Madam President, I would like I am not responsible for the women's shelters, but they are the responsibility of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Åsa Lindhagen. However, I am responsible for the victim support services, and there are no such decisions made, as far as I know. But we have strengthened victim support in general so that both women's shelters and victim support centres have more money to move with than ever before. I will of course take Linda Westerlund's question to the responsible minister and see what we can do. It is obvious that no matter how you define yourself and who you are, you must have good support if you have been a victim of crime. I don't really think there are any other views on that. At least I share that view and think it should be self-evident.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-373	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I know that both I and the Minister of Justice are well aware that the work of women's shelters and crime victims' shelters is closely linked. They are vulnerable people who live in difficult situations that are there and seek help. When women's shelter organisations do not include transgender persons, it is the Government's task to ensure that victims' organisations are more able to receive transgender persons, who are an extremely vulnerable group in today's society.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-375	Madam President, I would like I fully share that view. It is also the case that transgender persons may very well be particularly vulnerable to violent crimes. It is therefore extremely important that they receive the support and help they need, just like everyone else. I can promise Linda Westerlund that I will raise this issue with the responsible minister, but also in the dialogues I have with the organisations we are talking about, even if they are not formally in my area.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-377	Madam President, I would like Sweden is currently in two parallel crises, and that is because of the coronapandemine. The processing times of the Swedish Agency for Growth are worryingly long and too many entrepreneurs have to wait for answers for months. They will receive the answer: please delay, we have not yet started the handling of your case. And every day here is lost. The government has overall responsibility for these crises and also has at its disposal what can be done. KD has submitted a number of proposals for both changes and improvements. We know that you have sometimes listened, and sometimes we have had to take it through the Riksdag. And we know what has been done so far. But without our viable businesses, we have no welfare.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-381	Madam President, I would like I thank Camilla Brodin for the question. I think the honourable Member will begin well by describing that we are in a pandemic that places enormous demands on society. This also applies, of course, to all those who are trying to move their activities forward. We all have a great interest in continuing production, for people to keep their jobs and for Sweden to remain competitive. That is also the reason why the government, together with the cooperation parties, has spent 12 times so far on financial resources beyond the budget. I hear that Camilla Brodin is well aware of this but asks how we ensure that these funds are also paid out. There is constant work to be done on the one hand to allocate resources and on the other hand to ensure that they can be paid out. It's only when they're useful and effective. The government is, of course, following this issue closely.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-387	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer, although I feel that there is a lack of understanding that it is about here and now. Time passes, and it has been quite a long time since March. I fully understand that not all the tools were put in place directly, but when we raised the issue in August, the government said that the Swedish Agency for Growth would have the resources to meet the needs that exist. Now we see that the queues are longer than ever and that an incredible number of people wait without knowing if they can keep their noses above water the next day.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-390	Madam President, I would like I'm sorry I missed the question of specifically the Swedish Agency for Growth. There are many authorities involved, many entrepreneurs who need support and many wage earners who expect the support to be paid out. It is working on this all the time, and these are huge challenges. When it comes to the Swedish Agency for Growth's ability to make payments, the Government does its utmost to give the work the conditions for it.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-393	Madam President, I would like I also have a question for Minister Lena Hallengren. We are moving rapidly towards a stage where it is important that as many people as possible choose to vaccinate. People still have a previous pandemic in mind as there were serious complications for some people who chose to stand up for the community and vaccinate themselves. They suffered severe side effects and are still suffering from this. What does Lena Hallengren intend to do to make people feel safe even before vaccination with the fact that the sufferer of serious side effects is guaranteed an acceptable compensation? There are, of course, criticisms of the level of compensation paid in previous similar situations.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-397	Madam President, I would like Many thanks to the Liberals, Joar Forssell, for the question! This is something the government, together with the Liberals and the Center Party, of course, spends a lot of time on. It is a matter of ensuring that we do not end up in the same situation that arose after the vaccinations in 2009 when the pharmaceutical insurance was not enough. We are now preparing proposals that will enable us to supplement the pharmaceutical insurance so that there will be no ceilings to be applied. Last time this was done afterwards, but we are anxious that this should be in place before vaccinations begin. We therefore intend to return to Parliament with this. Let me also say that our ambition is for people to feel a great deal of security so that as many as possible want to vaccinate and do so. Then it is important that we are transparent and that we are generous with all the information that is available so that you can easily access it.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-401	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. As an individual citizen, there will undoubtedly be great pressure from society, government and parliament to vaccinate. Liberals will of course follow up and ensure that the government maintains that even before vaccination starts, people will feel confident that the replacement levels for those affected by serious side effects are at a reasonably high level.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-404	Madam President, I would like The pharmaceutical insurance is in its construction quite unique to Sweden. That is why this does not exist at a European level on the basis of the agreements signed. However, we are keen that the ceilings contained in the pharmaceutical insurance should not be applied but that we should be able to supplement and provide the necessary security. I realize that you can feel pressure from many sides. However, I believe that we all want to return to a more normal life as soon as possible, and vaccines are an important part of this. Of course, we will do everything we can to make people feel safe.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-407	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg. Sweden is at the forefront of digitalisation. Digitisation has many advantages but also poses major and real threats to cyber security. The government has previously commissioned a number of authorities to set up a cybersecurity centre. What significance can we expect for Swedish security?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-410	Madam President, I would like I thank Alexandra Völker for the question. Sweden is a very digitised country, and then it is important that we also take height for the vulnerabilities that exist. There are antagonistic threats where foreign states engage in spying against Sweden, prepare possible sabotage and can engage in critical infrastructure. That is why we need to increase the level of safety. It also occurs in a more everyday form where companies suffer from fraud and internet threats. We need to be more prepared for this. As of today, therefore, some of the state's excellence is being gathered in a cybersecurity centre. We provide heavy and long funding to build additional capabilities in this area and be able to interact with private business and support socially important activities that are affected by these attacks. With this, Sweden will be better prepared to both resist and manage cyber attacks in the future.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-414	Madam President, I would like This is a particularly important step for our cyber security. How soon can we expect this center to begin its work?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-415	Madam President, I would like The answer is simple: you start today. Not all operations will be built up in one day, but you are already co-located with MSB in Solna. However, the Centre will co-locate more permanently in the future. As I said, the work will start today and will continue to be built up over the next few years.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-418	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Eriksson and is about the goal of sustainability 14. I ask this question because the Green Party claims to have been pushing the issue of oceans for years. There's something called the Cape Town Agreement. It regulates fishing, combats illegal fishing, and it also regulates the working environment on board fishing boats. These are major issues, for 3 billion people depend on the sea for their survival. It is estimated that 200 million people work on fishing boats. All Nordic countries except Sweden have ratified the Cape Town Agreement. In 2019 a major conference was held in Torremolinos, which just turned to the ministers. 120 countries participated. All Nordic ministers were present except Sweden. Why?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-422	Madam President, I would like I must admit that I cannot answer that question straightaway. But I can find out why and what the premises were. We are making significant efforts to strengthen the capacity of the oceans to produce food in the future, for example by supporting the restoration of coral reef areas, areas that are also important for the reproduction of fish. For example, we contributed another 40 million this autumn to the Global Blue Action Fund.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-425	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. One news that has created a lot of discussions and strong opinions lately is the news of a politician's very close relationship with a person who has been convicted of terrible sex crimes against children. The debate has been a lot about why the politician did that. I think maybe it's a less interesting perspective. My question to the government and the Minister of Justice is: What is such a person doing in society? It is therefore a case of aggravated rape of children on 22 occasions, gross sexual assault on 2 occasions and serious child pornography on 38 occasions. It resulted in nine years in prison, but the person came out after six years. Why is there no possibility of life imprisonment in such particularly serious sex crimes?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-428	I would like to remind you that individual circumstances are not the subject of this House's deliberations.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-429	Madam President, I would like I cannot comment on any individual cases, but I can comment on the issue as such. In the case of sex offences against children, during the previous term of office we ensured that the penalties were substantially tightened, including the penalties for gross rape of children. We have also increased the penalties for serious child pornography offences, including during the last parliamentary term. During this term of office, we will continue to review the scale of penalties for sexual offences, in order to ensure that we have an even tougher view of such crimes. I can assure Martin Kinnunen of that. Thanks to the work we have done, Sweden now has the most stringent sex crime legislation that it has ever had, and we will continue to strengthen it. Sexual crimes are one of our top priorities, especially to stop violence and other abuse of children.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-433	Madam President, I would like I have previously discussed with Morgan Johansson in this House the review of the settlement processes. His answer was that it is not necessary. I have also asked the Minister whether the government will put children first in matters such as custody disputes. That's the answer, yes. So now I wonder: how is it possible that settlement processes are allowed to last for several years and that we have legislation and practice that allows parties to delay by, among other things, not submitting requested information and answering questions about assets and liabilities? This is unacceptable. It may be that there are two adults who argue, but a government that puts the child first should not allow it. There are children involved in these long processes, and they are twice ill and do not get the security they are entitled to.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-437	Madam President, I would like There is an investigation which has just looked at custody issues and which produced a report a few years ago. It's called See the Child! We are at the final stage of the preparation of the proposals, and that includes proposals that make it possible to prevent such disputes and perhaps resolve them at an earlier stage. I believe that this is the way to proceed, that is to say, to ensure that disputes can be settled differently from before. There are also proposals that make it more difficult to stay out of the way and not carry out the kind of dialogue that needs to be in place. As I said, we are in the final stage with proposals based on the investigation, and we will make proposals to Parliament at the beginning of next year.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-440	Madam President, I would like Migration legislation is a national and international fabric that aims to protect us in war and persecution and to keep order in education, jobs and marriage between countries. Legislation requires popular support. We sometimes see, when countries feel that they have received more than others, that there is a lack of popular support. We also see when there is cheating in the system that the popular support is being nibbled at the edge. Therefore, my question to Morgan Johansson is: How does the government react to the headlines that have been about the Ukrainian company that recruits staff and then leaves them outside the Migration Agency? From a Christian Democrat point of view, we have argued on several occasions that there must be order and that there must be law. I wonder how the government intends to act on this?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-443	Madam President, I would like This action is, of course, offensive because it exploits gaps in legislation or the system in order to exploit people and trick them into money in order to get them to work, preferably around the clock, for very low wages during the time when their asylum applications are being examined. This is capitalism – we know that. If there are gaps in the legislation, there are always rogue actors who are doing everything they can to make money out of other people and exploit them. Then it is important to ensure that the gaps can be closed as soon as possible. One way to plug this particular gap is to have a list of safe countries, that is, when you apply for asylum from a country where there is no general persecution, you should not be able to remain in the country if the application has been appealed. This means that if you apply for asylum here and get a rejection, you have to turn the door. Then we will stop the kind of exploitation that we have now seen examples of. We come up with a proposal in this part, hopefully before Christmas, otherwise soon after Christmas.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-446	Madam President, I would like It was a little bad timing with Magnus Jacobsson's question, because my question concerns exactly the same area. But if I allow myself to reformulate the question a little bit, it is partly about what Magnus Jacobsson raised. We have seen previous examples in reports from the nail industry, where they import labour that is promised good conditions and good wages but then exploited under slave-like conditions and forced to go into debt. They cannot see a future for themselves either here in Sweden or in their original home country because they are placed in a situation where they depend on those who have used them. On this basis, I would like to ask the question: what is being done to get to grips with this part, which deals with the rules on labour immigration, where every year we see thousands of people seeking permission to work in Sweden?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-449	Madam President, I would like It wasn't bad timing at all. It was good, because then I'll have one more minute to answer about the same theme. With regard to the safe countries list and the way in which the asylum system is used, we can already do so if we have a system for safe countries. These cases will then be dealt with much more quickly, and you can reduce the waiting period from perhaps three to four months to just a few weeks. In that case, that hatch cannot be used. When it comes to the second question raised by Rikard Larsson, it is about the broad discussion of labour immigration, that is, when people come here – perhaps being tricked here in different ways – and then working for 30 SEK an hour, living in a basement and being exploited in all kinds of ways. There we have set up an investigation to review labour immigration rules in order to stop this kind of cheating, falsification and organised crime. We will have the first report in February and then we will be able to go forward with measures to clean up that part. There's a lot to do there.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-452	Madam President, I would like The availability of part-time firefighters is extremely important for our rescue services around Sweden, but with current a-cassette rules it will be a negative impact on staff supply because a person who is unemployed but active as a part-time firefighter is at risk of getting lower unemployment funds. We have here in Parliament decided on an announcement calling on the government to urgently review the possibility of granting exemptions in the a-cassette rules for part-time firefighters. We have investigated this before, 2018, in An effective more municipal emergency services, but now I have read that there will be a response in May. It is not very urgent, so my question to Mikael Damberg is: Is May correct, or can we see a more urgent exception for part-time firemen?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-454	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Alexandra Anstrell, for an important question! Part-time firefighters are the backbone of Swedish rescue services. They carry emergency services all over Sweden, so it is important that we work long-term and consistent with the municipalities taking their employer responsibility and recruiting, but also that the state has a part in this. My responsibility is primarily about MSB, which conducts training and has increased the training of part-time firefighters in recent years to cope with staff supply – alongside all the other efforts we make to strengthen civil protection. The issue of unemployment is an issue we are following very closely, but there are also major reforms underway in the area of unemployment to broaden and improve the a-cassage system and calculate it in a completely different way. It is not my responsibility in the government, but I know that the Minister for Labour is following this and is very interested and careful on this issue too.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-458	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Lena Hallengren. Sweden hopes to start vaccination against covid-19 now in January. The goal is that everyone who wants to be able to be vaccinated until the summer. But exactly how this is to be done is still relatively unclear. Only one of Sweden's regions states that they have a pre-written vaccination plan. Given how testing and detection of infection have worked, there is, of course, a legitimate concern about how the regions themselves can cope with vaccination. We Swedish democrats would like to see more clear government governance and a comprehensive operational plan for how mass vaccination should be carried out. But from what I understand, the government does not share this view. Therefore, my question is this: can the Government guarantee that the Government has done everything possible to help and assist the regions in how they will manage to vaccinate their population before the summer?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-462	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Per Ramhorn, for the question of vaccinations! This may not have marked every issue in this House today, but I know how many people are thinking about it. I also know how much information the members of the Social Affairs Committee have received, most recently today by the Director-General of the Public Health Agency, but also by vaccine coordinators, the Medical Products Agency and many others. So knowledge should exist, I would say, that this is a challenge for a world, not least for Europe and, of course, also for Sweden, when it comes to being able to vaccinate as soon as possible and to do so properly. In Sweden, we are keen to do so as needed; those with the greatest need should be vaccinated first. It should also be done safely. We had previous issues here about pharmaceutical insurance and so on. Indeed, we are doing all that we feel we need and can do. But we also have an ongoing dialogue with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions. In addition to the agreement that covers in principle 9 billion and will clarify responsibilities, we of course have an ongoing dialogue as vaccines are approved and delivered and what might arise.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-467	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. It is about a problem that may seem trivial, but it is found in Dalarna, Värmland, Västerbotten and many other places. It's about shaking windows, balconies and floors. People can't sleep at night. I'm sure the Minister will understand what I'm going to talk about. The decibel level is sometimes at the same level as a shotgun. It's about high-playing cars, which cause a lot of damage. During the past summer, the police in Region Bergslagen received 600 calls over two months about the problem. I know that both the Minister of Justice and Minister Damberg have been familiar with the matter. My question therefore goes to Mikael Damberg : Is the government now working to give the police the tools they say they need? They say that they do not have these tools with the existing legislation.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-471	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Peter Helander, for an important question! I almost got a little criticism because in the middle of the pandemic and during the gang shootings I visited a municipality that has actually had big problems with this type of music playing vehicle. You can laugh about it, but for people who live in these communities and wake up at 4.30 a.m. day in and day in and for the hotels that get cancellations from customers because they don't know if it's possible to sleep at night, it's not a funny question anymore. It is not a question of us being against young people engaging in motor sports, but there may be limits to how you behave in Sweden and how you behave towards others. I have a very good dialogue with the Police Authority, but also the prosecutors have chosen to engage. They now have a job together, and they have promised to come back to me if they see the need for change. They are now testing new working methods and a more offensive way of working to get to grips with this. I welcome it and look forward to receiving a report from both the police and the prosecutor.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-475	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Johansson. According to a recent survey by Dagens Nyheter among the municipalities of the country, violence in close relationships has increased during the coronapandemia. Of the municipalities that responded, one in three states that they have received an increased number of cases of violence in close relationship. It is a consequence of the pandemic that we are also seeing in other countries. Furthermore, we can assume that the number of the darkness is great, given that it is more difficult to call for help if the violator is around all the time.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-479	Madam President, I would like We saw that risk early this spring. We saw that this could well be the case, not least in view of the experience of other countries that have had the total shutdown, perhaps with curfews for long periods of time. That's why we said we have to take altitude for this. We could also have the same development in Sweden. We have not seen any increase in police reports, but we have seen that some municipalities, as Ida Karkiainen says, have sounded the alarm that they are now seeing an increase. What we did last spring was to bring extra money to the women's shelters as a special reinforcement. They already had more money than they've ever had, and now they've got even more. Then the police have also strengthened their investigation activities during the year. 380 new investigators have been recruited with special focus on solving and investigating crimes in close relationships. It's part of the big police effort we've made. We will certainly have to come back to this issue. Men's violence against women is one of our top priorities.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-485	Madam President, I would like I ask a general political question. The most important election promise of the Social Democrats in 2014 was that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. 27 of the EU's 28 countries used the economic boom to reduce unemployment, but not Sweden. Here the situation deteriorated considerably compared with other nations. Sweden is also the country where unemployment has increased most among EU Member States since 2014. Even now, during the current crisis, Sweden stands out in an alarming direction. In October, the unemployment rate was 7.8 per cent and that of the unemployed 430 000 persons.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-489	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is a worrying development when it comes to what is happening in the wake of the pandemic. Let me just start by saying that when it comes to comparing unemployment between countries, we should, of course, compare ourselves with ourselves. We will make sure that we do everything possible to keep people's jobs, to get back to work and to be able to re-school if you are forced to leave a job or an industry where the conditions are much worse. However, unemployment is always measured in relation to job seekers. I am proud to say that Sweden is a country where people are at the disposal of the labour market. Above all, you do not back down to your home as a woman when you lose your job, but you continue to be a job seeker. We really encourage it. One can see this not least when it comes to many women with foreign backgrounds, for example, who are largely placed on the Swedish labour market. Aid during the pandemic in the case of short-term lay-offs, conversion aid and turnover aid – all of this is to reduce the impact. Major educational efforts are also being made to give people the opportunity to re-school and come back.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-494	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg. For the past five years, the Prosecution Office has received 3,200 suspicions of a benefit crime. However, despite an increase in the number of prosecution cases, only about 38% of the cases have led to prosecutions. In addition, long processing times at the police are time-barred. It cannot be reasonable for municipalities to spend a lot of work on notifications that do not lead anywhere. It undermines confidence in the rule of law. The Grant Crimes Act, which was introduced in 2007, obliges all municipalities to report all suspected grant offences to the police – something that does not happen today when officials from experience know that many reports are closed either by the police or by prosecutors.
i-7jhPrywnQSesQqBELyKmXu	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Bo Broman! It is a priority for the government to stop, not least, criminals using the public to fund their livelihoods or activities. Welfare crime is very much the focus of our work. It does, too, for the police and the prosecutors. They have worked together and developed new processes, and we see a very positive development in how the police and prosecutors now lead cases in cases. This has been done through intensive cooperation with authorities, which report in a completely different way today and also have with the necessary evidence to enable it to lead to conviction. I believe that this process needs to be developed in relation to the local government sector. The municipalities also need to work more closely with prosecutors and police officers to ensure that the complaints they make also lead to conviction. They must also have more preventive work. It is not possible just to investigate this kind of crime. It must also be prevented, and we can do so together.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-502	Madam President, I would like The Parliament will now debate and decide later on proposals relating to regional development. This and other budget debates this year are, of course, taking place in the light of the coronapandemia that has hit our entire world. Something that began in a market in a city in China has come to affect us all in different ways. Some have become ill. Others have even died. Some have been laid off. Others have been laid off. The vast majority travel less, move less and work far more from home in the situation we find ourselves in. Around Sweden, in urban and rural areas, many entrepreneurs have been affected. Some have even been hit very hard by the pandemic. Not least the important tourism industry, for example on a summer island like Gotland, in Sälenfjällen in Dalarna and elsewhere, has been hit very hard. This debate is about regional development. For us in the Moderates it is natural and obvious that one should be able to live, live and work in all parts of the country. And it should be good conditions throughout Sweden to start and run companies. Madam President, I would like The Moderates have presented a single draft budget. It should be seen as a whole. Our draft budget has previously fallen as a single option. But if we had bought it, it would have meant more money for important activities such as health care, school and defence. This would have meant a great deal of effort against the serious crime we have in Sweden. This would not least have meant quite a lot of investment in jobs and entrepreneurship and improved conditions for the country's entrepreneurs in different parts. Given that our proposal has fallen, we will not be taking part in the budget decision in Parliament in this part. However, that does not prevent us from having an ambitious reform agenda for regional development in particular and a long list of proposals for what we mean should be made. Sweden is in many ways a well-functioning country. We have vast nature, often great trust between people and many prominent companies. These are some of the many examples. But we also have problems and challenges as a country. Before the coronapandemia, Sweden had a number of clear problems with taxes, tax problems and inflexible labour markets. We had problems with the housing market, which has made mobility difficult and reduced, as well as large regional differences. That was before the pandemic. That's how it is now. This is something that we need to deal with later in order for the whole country to really live and develop. We're in the middle of the coronap. It is perhaps early to draw too far-reaching and clear conclusions. It's coming along. Still, it makes sense to think that we will live and work in other ways. We are now working in other ways than before the crisis. We are likely to live in other ways than before the crisis with more domestic work and changed travel. Of course, a lot of this will be challenging later on when you adjust in different ways. But anything else similar, I would say that this has brought considerable pressure on digitalisation and not least improved opportunities to live, live and work outside the country's major cities. Madam President, I would like Many entrepreneurs in Sweden have been severely affected by the pandemic. A lot of the companies have lost a large part of their turnover in a short time, in the spring and even now that we are in a second wave of infection. It may be that tourists did not arrive on the west coast or on Gotland this summer, that there have been fewer hotel guests and restaurant guests in the mountains or that many traders have had fewer customers in their shops. Overall, I believe that there is great respect for the fact that the government and the Public Health Authority must take decisions on restrictive measures, which affect everyone and which should be respected. But I also think there is a great expectation that when you do that, the companies that are affected will get some kind of compensation. It should not go any further, but companies should be able to get it clear and early so that they survive. This has not always been the case. We know that layoffs, short-term aid, have been one of the most effective measures and have enabled many companies – large companies and small businesses, both in urban and rural areas – to survive. At times, however, there have been problems with the fact that it and other subsidies have taken an enormous amount of time to obtain. This applies, for example, to many with an individual firm; you may be a musician or work with crafts of some kind in the Swedish countryside. The Swedish Parliament decided as early as June to make a request to the government that support should also be given to this type of entrepreneur. It took the government a full eight months into the crisis before it came back with a proposal. Meanwhile, many entrepreneurs around the country have been hard hit. At worst, some have even had to give up. Madam President, I would like As I said, many entrepreneurs have also lost a large part of their turnover. There has been a conversion aid. It is basically a good reform and a good initiative. But I can see that it has hit hard in different parts of the country that the government and support parties C and L have first taken an enormous amount of time to reach agreement on companies to be helped and how to help them. Then it has taken the government a long time to return to Parliament with a concrete proposal after it has been communicated at a press conference. Then we have not even started the process for the entrepreneur to come to for example the Swedish Tax Agency or the Swedish Growth Agency and apply for support and help in order to finally get money. That handling is not good enough. This means that thousands of entrepreneurs around Sweden in important areas, such as trade and, not least, tourism, have been hit very hard by a choice-handed and poor handling. This also means that, for example, someone in the tourism industry who this summer was affected in Bohuslän or on the east coast and wants support for lost turnover in August cannot apply for it until 2021, i.e. six months after the month in question. It is all because the government has not done this well enough. What is needed instead, Madam President, is clarity and early and clear action. We need other reforms such as farm sales, reform of beach protection, reasonable hunting rules in the country, strengthening property rights in forestry policy and a new land sales programme. We need a secure supply of electricity without electricity crises throughout the country. There is a need for better conditions for entrepreneurship, as well as a reduction in red tape and cleavage from county boards. We need to ensure that people have a level playing field in healthcare in all parts of the country. For example, cancer care should not be determined by the place of residence. This requires a different approach to policy as a whole and, in particular, to regional development policy. That would require a new government.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-518	Madam President, I would like What we are debating today is very close to my heart. I therefore apologise for the fact that I am going to suspend the pre-announced speaking time by a minute and hope that the President's Bureau and the Members present will forgive this. If we lift our eyes beyond Stockholm's horizon there is another Sweden regardless of which direction you look: from the Stockholm archipelago with its tens of thousands of islands in the east to the Skagerrak salty cliffs in the west and from rolling golden yellow rape fields in the south to windswept mountain peaks in the north. All over our country there are areas that do not have the character of big cities, university cities and large metropolises, but nevertheless they are the home of many people and companies. It is, in my opinion, not infrequently that these areas are forgotten or caught up in political decisions, even if it is precisely in debates such as this, on regional growth, that there is a different sound in the scolding. Then everyone is talking about the whole of Sweden living. It is a good thing, Madam President, that in any case in thought and in the sense that is something we are all striving for. But what is it really like? Is it something that the majority of politicians just say, or is it something that the country's government actually works for in its political action? I think I see from my perspective as living in the interior of Norrland that frustration is increasing among more and more people because they feel directly disadvantaged only because they have chosen to live somewhere else than in the big city. Many can accept that the service is a bit worse and travel times a little longer, but when this is combined with missing bets or penalties, the measure is topped up for many. For regional growth to be possible, there must be people behind growth, people who can manage and make any of the appropriations decided. There must be people who want to live outside the big cities and who, if given reasonable opportunities to do so, can form part of the interaction between city and country needed for Sweden to continue to be the export nation and welfare state that we strive to be. Without these people, the forest is not used, the wheat is not harvested, the ore is not broken, the herring is not fished and the ski resorts are not managed. There are many categories of people – too many to mention in this debate – who all contribute in their own way to creating prosperity in all of Sweden's regions as long as they are given the right conditions. What the government is doing, i.e. taxing everything that has to do with distance, is not the right way to go, at least not if you want to create growth outside the city centres. The government announces that it wants to invest hundreds of billions of dollars in high-speed trains between major cities while lowering the speeds of 121 km of road in Sweden's countryside. That is not the way to go either. The mere idea of what would happen if the Travel Deduction Committee's proposal for a new travel allowance were to be realised is enough to give people who need the car to make the life puzzle go together cold grooves along their backs. Any such small step in the wrong direction, where new burdens are combined with extruded service and social presence, could be the drop that eventually makes the cup run over and push people forward in a continued unwanted urbanization. The fact that most of us who participate in this debate are in favour of and willing to argue for the importance of regional growth is a good thing. We Swedish democrats certainly proposed a higher allocation for Category 19 in our draft budget than the government did, as is also shown in our special opinion in the report. However, whatever the level of funding, there are a few things that concern me. As important as regional growth investment is, it is that it is done in the right way. Tax funds must end up where they should and do as much good as possible. Madam President, I would like For example, if you look at what is mentioned as special support for commercial services, that is to say a little simplified what is called a country dealer, Västerbotten will be at the top. That, of course, makes sense. But then Västra Götaland and Stockholm receive the most support. Only then will my own county Norrbotten and then Jämtland. Is this reasonable? No offense about Stockholm and Västra Götaland – there are also rural areas – but friends of order may think it is appropriate to carefully investigate if the investments end up right. Another thing that crystallizes is that the four northernmost counties together receive just over SEK 5 million less in regional aid than in the past, despite the fact that the total amount of funding as a whole has increased. This is explained by the fact that the regions already on the train can afford the 50-60% part-financing required to benefit from the appropriations. Weaker regions, however, where there is innovation and entrepreneurship but perhaps not the same economic muscle, must survive without it. The question is whether this is a sensible distribution that seriously stimulates regional growth. I don't think so. Madam President, I would like Regional growth is an urgent issue for large parts of our beautiful country, not just the northernmost counties. It is a Sweden where it is possible to run companies, live and live whether it is in Karesuando, Grums or Kåseberga. It's for the benefit of all of us. It creates the conditions for a vibrant countryside and a diversified economy. This applies not least to one of the sectors that has taken the most pains during the current pandemic, i.e. the tourism industry. My view is that if we are to succeed seriously in creating regional growth that boosts the country as a whole, we must not only allocate funds but also make sure that every invested tax chandelier is as useful as possible. At the same time, we need to look at the overall picture and not make decisions that hit people and businesses in rural areas directly. This cannot be stressed enough. Having said that, Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to wish the members of the committee and the Bureau of Presidents a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-533	Madam President, I would like As the Left Party's proposal for appropriations in the area of regional development is above the level at which the government's budget is based, I cannot reserve my support for our proposal. Therefore, I choose to refrain from taking a position and instead briefly outline our view of regional development – or it may not be that brief. In order to strengthen welfare, increase freedom for the vast majority, create justice and equality and succeed in the necessary green transition, we must act together. In this situation, the government is not spending billions on tax subsidies for domestic services, kitchen renovations and reduced income tax for high-income earners, rather than investing in securing the long-term financing of welfare or strengthening the Swedish economy and driving the development of the green transition. When the government prioritises the rich rather than grasping the growing divides, the Left Party chooses a different path, as shown by our budget motion. The draft budget presented by the Left Party includes efforts to reduce gaps and strengthen general welfare. Madam President, I would like As far as the policy orientation of the expenditure area is concerned, I would like to start by highlighting the fact that Sweden has large and growing regional disparities. Moreover, as the budget proposal shows, these differences have increased as a consequence of the ongoing pandemic. The economic consequences of the pandemic are great, and most worrying are developments in the labour market. The Left Party wants to build a stronger society that is capable of taking care of its inhabitants whether the crisis is global and affects everyone or is personal. I believe that there is a need for a comprehensive approach to regional development policy. It will be based on long-term, developed collaboration, greater regional influence and a clear responsibility for the state to ensure that basic public services exist throughout the country. Access to public services is crucial for people to live and live their lives. Government services must also be available in rural areas. There is therefore a need for efforts to make important social functions available. In areas where the public has been dismantled, there is a clear trend: after that, stores are closed and jobs are lost. In recent decades, the public has been the first to leave rural and suburban areas as well, for that matter. I want to see initiatives that affect all parts of society. The state must take overall responsibility and ensure that companies can be set up, grow and run. I believe that there is a need for a different policy, a policy that means that everyone in Sweden gets the same chance and that you can trust that the welfare society works and that you get housing and good public service no matter where you live, what you have the conditions and what your job is. We have proposals that I was going to mention here in various areas that affect regional development. For example, we present in enterprise policy policies to support employee-owned companies. We propose that the government company Almi receive a supplement to issue loans with the aim of enabling employees to take over otherwise closed-down companies. After reviewing the business plans for the cooperative companies, Almi could contribute to more employees themselves being able to save their jobs. Why, then, is this important for regional development? Because many of the companies affected by generational change without access to someone who can take over are located in sparsely populated areas or in rural areas. For example, the report Staff-owned companies and the U.S. ESOP model of Witkowsky mention that thousands of Northerners are at risk of losing their jobs because there is no one who can take over the company when its owners retire. The problem is particularly great in the hinterland of Norrland. Only in Skellefteå there are 843 companies with an owner who is over 60 years old. Together, these companies employ over 3,500 people. Another problem that contributes to rural impoverishment is the privatisation drive of certain parties. For example, we can take care. It is usually far from the nearest hospital when you live in the countryside. This makes it extra important to have available functional care centres with a wide range of services. At the same time, we have seen how the private health centres completely dissipate the countryside, because they want to provide services where there is a high population density and you can make money. Given the high level of privatisation in some parties, they set aside budgetary resources to try to attract private operators. But they fail even then, for even that support is not close to the profit that private operators want. Why not use these resources to strengthen the health centres in rural areas, so that they include more care and become more accessible as a real complement to long-distance healthcare? Since healthcare is so unequal from a class perspective but also geographically, we propose in our budget that SEK 1 billion be spent on strengthening healthcare in sparsely populated regions. Politics can only be a coherent policy, with cross-functional efforts to create the right conditions, whether people live in sparsely populated areas or in suburban areas. Developed public transport in rural and sparsely populated areas creates the conditions for reduced climate emissions and strengthened conditions for living and living in sparsely populated areas. Therefore, we propose general state aid of SEK 2 000 million annually to enable cheaper and expanded public transport. The Left Party also proposes state aid of SEK 500 million for the operation of public transport in sparsely populated and rural areas in the form of, for example, call-in public transport, village buses and perhaps even regular services. That's how you create the conditions for people to live where they want. In the area of regional development, we have a concrete example concerning municipalities that have taken a national responsibility to protect valuable forest areas for the benefit of biodiversity. These measures are for the whole of Sweden. Everyone can use those areas. But they affect the municipalities where these forests happen to be. Many of these are located in northern Sweden's hinterland. That is where we want to earmark the 30 million with which our budget is greater than that of the government. It is money that these municipalities could seek to develop something else and could compensate for jobs lost in protecting these areas.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-545	Madam President, I would like No chain is stronger than its weakest link. It's a metaphor that fits when we talk about regional development. Sweden is to the surface a large country with consistently low population density alongside some more densely populated regions. We Christian Democrats want to make it possible for all parts of the country, with their different conditions, to develop and be attractive in different ways. Everything should be possible: to live an urban life with the city's offering and vibrant lifestyle, to find your own pace in a landscape characterised by deep forests and the great silence – and everything in between. But then there must be a basic infrastructure that ensures security and predictability for citizens and businesses. We realise that different parts of Sweden need each other, and we must vigorously stop any attempt to create a we and de-think. It's not land to town or south to north. Sweden is a country with a need to see the strength of cooperation. At present, however, there are challenges. The challenges between North and South today have to do with our electricity price areas. The closure of nuclear reactors in the south and networks that do not have capacity or are not complete or even started make price differences very different depending on where in the country you live. We hear the emergency alarms from industry that acute electricity shortages can be what forces companies to move abroad, which would be devastating for Sweden. Madam President, I would like Swedish healthcare still has a good reputation and stands well in international comparisons. The medical results in particular are many times in the top class. In other respects, however, the impression is that our health system has lost compared to the past. We believe that the responsibility of the regions for health care needs to be reviewed. The unacceptable waiting times and queues for health care are the clearest example, where the debt of care is only increasing and increasing. We Christian Democrats are working for equal care throughout the country. However, in order to improve equality and the quality of care, action is needed in both the long and short term. The Christian Democrats believe that it is absolutely essential in the long term for healthcare to shift into a state responsibility that provides better opportunities and creates development power. In the short term, coherent care processes for patients need to be created so that patients become more involved in their own care and receive better care throughout the care chain. Many of the health care problems with waiting times, care queues and lack of patient safety stem from this difficulty in creating coherent processes. It is therefore urgent that we also start to talk about health issues in terms of regional development. In the wake of the coronapndemine, we now see further evidence of the different conditions of the different regions in terms of equal care and preparation across the country. A national care plan is needed for equal care throughout Sweden. Madam President, I would like As you all know, Sweden is in a worrying and uncertain position. The large and broad impact that the coronapandemy has had on society must be addressed at the same time as the social problems that existed before the pandemic and that have in many cases worsened. This includes, in particular, the increasing differences that have arisen between different regions as a consequence of the ongoing pandemic. With regard to the appropriations in the expenditure area, I would have liked to see an increase of 1:1 Regional growth measures of SEK 20 million in the following year to increase operating aid for our shops in vulnerable and vulnerable areas so that there can be more grocery stores. The local grocery store often serves as the hub of the locality. Apart from having somewhere to buy the most necessary, the shop is also a meeting point that contributes to social cohesion. If there is a store, there is often access to representation services from mail, pharmacies and system companies. A functioning service offering is often fundamental for more companies to be able to exist and develop in the area. Increasing urbanisation is likely to be one of the driving factors behind the fact that many rural shops have had more difficulty in investing in their activities or have had to close down. At present, approximately 270 stores are taking part in the special operating aid. Given the key role played by shops in society and for the whole of Sweden to live, we believe that this support should be increased. Madam President, I would like Health care, school and care are municipal core tasks. Building water park and various landmarks is not a municipal task. The state's corresponding core area is the judiciary, which is perhaps the most important function of the state in terms of public service. The Christian Democrats want to see a strengthening of the entire judiciary throughout Sweden. It is not only certain vulnerable areas in metropolitan areas that have experienced escalating problems of security and crime that are eating into everyday life. It has become a reality in all parts of the country, and counter-forces must now be mobilised to reverse developments. One of the many proposals contained in our budget concerns the creation of more courts around the country. Centralisation of the judiciary has gone far too far, and it is now high time for an effort to rebuild the rule of law in more places in the country.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-561	Madam President, I would like It's really fun to be in Parliament's speaker's chair again. It's been a long time. It's good to be here. Today we are debating NU2 Area of Expenditure 19 Regional Development. I support the committee's proposal in the report as a whole. We need a policy that is better adapted to the different conditions that exist both locally and regionally. Sweden's countryside is different. In southern Sweden, where I live, we have a lot of rural areas but quite short distances. In northern Sweden, however, where Birger Lahti lives, there is also a lot of countryside but with long distances. Then, of course, we have everything in between. We simply have different rural areas. The most basic thing is that we have a well-being that works – school, health care and care. That's the focus for us Social Democrats. If welfare does not work, it is difficult to make ends meet for the rest of your life, both for women and men and for jobs and growth. A society that holds together, where you help each other, is a stronger society. That is what we Social Democrats see. We have seen this not least now in the wake of the pandemic. Therefore, investments in welfare that we make in the budget bill for 2021 are very important. We've seen that. We've seen that we're helping each other and we're sticking together. We can stay together and keep our distance. There should be service at a reasonable distance where you live. That is why farmers' support is important and a prerequisite for small shops in rural areas. We will continue to support this in the 2021 budget, and that is a very good thing. Here we can see that the distance to a store has decreased from 22 kilometres to 18 kilometres since we introduced the aid. And there are also more shops today that receive the support than it was before. The support has left the country store in Häradsbäck in Älmhults municipality, where I live, and thanks to that it has developed very nicely. Here, traders can benefit from investment support. But also municipalities can, of course, help keep the country merchants alive through, for example, municipal services such as libraries where the municipality pays for that service. Another good example of this is in Lidhult, also in Kronoberg County, where there is both a café and a library. For shops in the countryside is not only a shop but also a meeting place. Often, as I described earlier, there is an opportunity to have a coffee. Here we can see that the pandemic has had consequences when we are going to keep our distance and not be too many in the same place. My local trader in Liatorp has, as he did not previously, started to drive out food to his customers twice a week. He has also increased the opening hours so that they can shop early in the morning in the risk groups. Let's reset, like I said. Madam President, I would like The Government's objective for regional growth policy is development power with a strengthened local and regional competitiveness for sustainable development in all parts of the country. To achieve this objective, the government has identified four priority areas:
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-574	What we see around our elongated country is that our different rural areas do not develop in a way that is desirable everywhere. However, what we can see right now, at least where I live and also elsewhere, is that more people are moving to the countryside today. I really hope it's a trend break that continues. What we can also see now that we have the pandemic is that people are sitting at home working in their summer house or in their home and discovering that it can actually work. It will be very interesting to follow that trend after the pandemic and see how it will continue. Where I live in Älmhult municipality, the houses in the countryside are sold right away, and the prices are rising quite sharply. Young people buy houses in the countryside. They want to live in the countryside, which is very encouraging for the future. Madam President, I would like That's why the infrastructure has to work. That is why we are spending more money on roads, railways and broadband. The broadband issue is extremely important, both in order to be able to work and train at a distance and for our green industries, whether you are a dairy farmer or a plant grower, where you need to be connected. The fact that we can work at home has, not least, seen in the Riksdag is very important now during the pandemic, and access to good connectivity is, of course, a prerequisite. That is why we are adding more than 200 million to broadband in the budget for 2021. Green industries are a prerequisite for living rural areas, for keeping our landscapes open and for biodiversity, but also for our food supply. We still have a lot to do to increase our food production and our livelihoods. It is also good for climate and environment that we produce food in Sweden. The forest is another part of the green industries that are of great importance for Sweden's prosperity, and the forest is by definition located in Sweden's countryside. It is important for jobs, growth, climate and the environment. The focus on green jobs in the budget is important. In order to cope with the climate change, we need to switch to fossil-free. The fund for a fair transition, JTF, will be important in this work, where the government has now increased the budget, but it will also cover more sectors and areas. The tourism industry, as mentioned earlier here today, was one of our fastest growing industries. Much of it is also found in rural areas. You come here for our beautiful nature, where we are unique with our right of public access. But the tourism industry is also important for our metropolitan regions. The government is developing a strategy for the tourism industry that will be an important tool for developing the industry. Corona has hit the hospitality industry hard, which was hit very early. Therefore, the Government invests more than 100 million in efforts in skills and business development, ecotourism, strengthening the capacity for change and transition. It's important for the job of the future. The support packages for companies are also important here. Madam President, I would like Regional policy is as important in the city as in rural areas. We need to invest in jobs and growth throughout Sweden. City and country depend on each other. What we see is that there are similar problems in our socio-economically vulnerable areas and in rural areas with the absence of state authorities, municipal and commercial services. Sweden's overall development has long been driven by those of us who live in its rural and sparsely populated areas, who wake up earlier than everyone else to see to both farm and land and who break the ore that develops Sweden's economy. In a new era that demands digitalisation and sustainable development, we need a policy that holds the country together and contributes to sustainable development in towns and cities, as well as in rural and rural areas. That is why we need a regional policy that develops the whole of Sweden, a city as a country.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-586	Madam President, I would like Around Sweden there is, even during the pandemic we are now in, often exuberant entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship. There is a will in our larger cities, in smaller towns, in sparsely populated areas and in rural areas. But there are also challenges. A recurring one is about environmental permits and long processing times. This can be about entrepreneurs in the tourism industry who need something where beach protection can cause problems and hinder important regional development. It can also be about larger companies – most recently it was LKAB in Norrbotten. Long-term licensing processes can put major investments at risk. Madam President, I would like I do not see the government making any major proposals in this area. How could one greatly reduce the time it takes and the money spent as an entrepreneur to get environmental permits and other permits in place? Personally, I can see that this is a risk that makes it possible to miss out on important entrepreneurship and economic development in different parts of the country. If we are talking about green conversion, it may also mean delaying or endangering important projects in general. That is why, Madam President, I would like to ask Monica Haider what her plan and that of the Social Democrats are for this. Do you have any ideas to come up with concrete regulatory simplifications that make it easier for large and smaller companies when they want to make important investments?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-591	Madam President, I would like As the honourable Member knows, simplification is something that we always work with, so also in this area. We work on that question all the time. What I can see when I go through the Moderate Budget Movement is that you can read about all areas of expenditure, but between 18 and 20 there is nothing. In the budget motion there are no proposals for expenditure category 19, so I can put the question back to Lars Helmered. The permit process is a sad child a little everywhere, I will willingly admit, but regulatory simplification is, as I said, something we work with all the time. We also spend quite a lot of money on it.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-594	Madam President, I would like The answer to why we do not have a motion in this particular area is that in our draft budget we choose to spend as much money as the government. We have no disagreement in that part. However, I note that our party has put forward a number of concrete proposals concerning environmental permit processes – not reducing the level of requirements, but looking at how to cut times properly if, for example, an industry in any part of Småland wants to develop its activities. For this and for municipal wastewater treatment plants, new homes and other things, the permit process often takes a really long time, and you don't really know what the outcome will be. We hope that progress can be made, because it is needed if we are to have entrepreneurship in different parts of the country and not just in the big cities. LKAB and others show that in large parts of our country it is crucial that such important entrepreneurship projects go through. But then we'll have to change the state of the environment.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-597	Madam President, I would like What we do is concentrate tasks on certain county boards so that not all county boards do all the assignments. At home, for example, the environmental permits are handled by the County Administrative Board Kalmar, not by the County Administrative Board Kronoberg. That improvement work is ongoing all the time. I agree with the honourable Member that the authorisation processes are taking too long. It's something we work with all the time.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-599	Madam President, I would like For a long time, we Christian Democrats have been quite clear that responsibility for health care, which today lies with the regions, should be transferred to the state. Member Monica Haider highlights the importance of accessible and good care throughout the country. At the same time, we note that the health debt is increasing. It is currently not acceptable to a welfare country. Is it not time for the Social Democrats to take the step of testing our proposal to let the state take over responsibility for health care?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-602	Madam President, I would like No.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-603	Madam President, I would like That was a fairly clear answer from the honourable Member. I note that the Social Democrats have in any case moved towards dividing Sweden into 6 regions instead of today's 21. That's a step along the way. I think we need to continue this dialogue. For us to receive equal and good care, we need something other than what we have today. We have seen, not least now in the traces of Corona, how different it looks in the country. It's the same with cancer care. I urge you to look at our proposal once more, rather than dismissing it so directly.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-607	Madam President, I would like We fully agree that we must have equal and fair care throughout Sweden. We can see that it differs depending on where you live. But government governance is not always the solution to all the problems in this world. What we do in this budget is that we invest a lot of money in both healthcare and care for the elderly in order to get better access and availability in healthcare. I think this is the future – that we invest more money in health care so that it becomes more equal throughout Sweden.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-609	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. The new objective of regional growth policy is to strengthen local and regional competitiveness for sustainable development in all parts of the country. What has been added here is sustainability, and I guess I have no major problem with that. There is another line of text in last year's report: a coherent chain of policy objectives from EU to regional level can be achieved, which means that existing EU funds and government growth funds can be directed towards projects that can contribute more to sustainable development. I think this is great. What has caused me to raise a little the finger of warning – and perhaps not just that, but to blow in all the trumpets that exist – is the proposal that came a Friday a few weeks ago about taxonomy. It is the delegated act of the European Union that identifies sustainable activities for financial support or investment. There you point out the Swedish forest, hydroelectric power and the Swedish mines, which will deliver the products that we will redesign society with, as non-sustainable. Now this issue is up – we raise it in many committees and will raise it in the EU Board, and the government is working on it. But I am very afraid that this list, pointing out many of the Swedish industries and activities, which are among the better in the world when it comes to sustainability, which will not be sustainable will spread to other decisions within the EU, when the big pot of billions of dollars will be distributed after the pandemic to kickstart the economy in Europe. Then such a list may be dangerously close to the decisions. We are discussing Category 19; it is about regional policy. When we Members are up here talking about this area of expenditure – I have done it myself over the years – we are talking about everything about rural areas, our own budgets and so on. But for those who listen and may not be so initiated, this budget area is about regional business subsidies, transport subsidies, support for commercial services and regional fund programmes. That is the delimitation of this budget issue. I myself will do some digressions; there is nothing strange about it. But what is regional growth? That, of course, is much more than what I just listed. When we Members are out meeting people and companies in the country, they naturally lift infrastructure. It is a government responsibility that many complain about. It is about roads, regional airports, broadband, rail and shipping. It is therefore a state responsibility to ensure that this works throughout the country. The issue of competence raises everyone's concerns. Access to venture capital is also a difficult issue, especially outside big cities, as well as access to energy, which we have also debated very recently. Madam President, I would like The whole country should live. What do we mean by that? Is that just a way of expressing yourself? Norway is talking about taking the whole country into use. There is a big difference, I think, between the whole country being alive and taking the whole country into use. In the countryside we have a lot of our heavy industries. We have forests and mines, and we produce goods and energy there. If you have the entrance that you should take the whole country into use, it means a different attitude than that the whole country should live. Taking the whole country into use is about the rural and the regions also being involved in producing, and that is what we are doing. Rural areas one and what is outside the big cities cannot be allowed to become some kind of Skansen, which you visit when you want to have a vacation. Over the last 40 years, there has been systematic governance towards centralisation, and hence urbanisation, in a way that no one might really want to see, but that has happened anyway. The Rural Committee made a proposal to relocate, relocate, 10 000 state jobs from Stockholm. We know that 10,000 jobs have been created in Stockholm in recent decades. Now a few thousand have been relocated, and at least 8 000 remain to be relocated. Then I think that this relocation is happening in a wrong way – to some suburb of Stockholm and to university cities that already have higher growth than Stockholm has. You put in more. It is really city number two and three in the regions that should have these jobs. This is also a problem: where is growth taking place? Stockholm is a growth engine; perhaps you should admit that. Growth engines and other growth areas are attracting investment. You get higher education and university – it becomes a self-playing piano. The Central Swedish Chamber of Commerce came up with a report a few weeks ago; I have had to take note of it even before. They say that 50 percent of the export value in Dalarna is registered in Stockholm. Dalarna is Sweden's fourth largest county when it comes to exports. Then you wonder if this has any influence. I've brought it up with the Ministry of Enterprise. Is this being corrected in any way? Well, you know the problem exists, so you look at it. This is one way of saying that it is not done. This means that too much growth in the regions and rural areas is recorded in the big city, which in turn can show that you are a huge growth engine and therefore need even more investment in the form of infrastructure and so on. So we need to look at this. I recently met some economists at a meeting, and we talked about how the pandemic beats in Sweden. It beats incredibly regionally. The Pandemin hits big cities and the service sector hardest. The tourism industry in the big cities has been hit incredibly hard. When I met the tourism industry in Dalarna, they were about to go bankrupt, they said, in April – May. After the summer it turned out that for example Idre Fjäll had the best summer ever. The pandemic thus beats incredibly different in different parts of the country and against different sectors, of course. I know a country dealer, Joel, who runs a Tempo shop in a village at home in my municipality that has lost half its population. What does he do when he finds the market is failing? He opens four digital shops in Mora, in the villages where the village shops have been closed. You don't have to meet a human being. It's amazing – you go in, you open and pay with the phone, you scan the goods with a camera and you go out, and you get a receipt in the phone. Amazingly good development! It's a little fun that a country dealer goes in and competes with the city centre. I would like to make a few other points. I was in the cost equalization investigation, a little more alike. Just before this debate, we discussed the need for a new tax equalisation system. It is gratifying that all parties agree to review the tax equalisation system. That was 12 years ago. I think the problem lies in the fact that we have completely different approaches to what is going to come out of this. Sometimes it is not party-linked either, but the municipal councillor reads at the back of the list if there is a plus or minus in the tax equalisation and is therefore in favour of or against the proposal. The Rural Committee has a huge number of proposals which I think are still missing. The municipal inquiry has some suggestions that I don't see becoming a reality. The forest investigation is under way now. We have received it, and now we are going to make sure that it is good – that we protect property rights and that forest owners are paid if property rights are restricted. The Strand Protection investigation will be here next week. Then comes the proposal for more service offices in the country. There are a lot of things going on that I think will be good. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude with the call I made earlier when we discussed regional policy, which I mentioned just now: take the whole country into use! I would also like to wish my colleagues and the Bureau a Merry Christmas.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-629	Madam President, I would like We are in the midst of a coronapandemia that affects our entire country – both city and countryside, entrepreneurs and public employees. But if we stick to entrepreneurship, we can see that around the country there are many people who run individual companies or limited companies that have been affected. Not least, we know that areas such as trade and tourism, as well as hairdressers and others in the service sector are very hard hit. After all, the Center Party and the Liberals are in charge of Sweden together with the government parties and have been involved in negotiating the crisis packages. There have been a number of additional amending budgets. I think that many of the aid has been in principle correct, for example, to compensate affected companies that have lost their turnover, but it has been quite unmanageable on the part of the government and support parties. For example, it has taken eight months to come up with a proposal for aid to individual firms, such as hairdressers, and it may take up to six months for a company to apply and get money for lost turnover in August or September. There will be a twitch between the periods in the turnover support – 50 per cent tap, 40 per cent tap and 30 per cent tap – and a huge length of processing time at the relevant authorities.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-633	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Helmered, for raising these important issues! I may not be going to tell you how the budget negotiations have been conducted, but it is probably thanks to the fact that the Center Party has been involved in the negotiations that support has come about at all. And thanks to the fact that other parties, such as the Moderates, have pressed for individual companies to receive support, there has eventually become a fairly large majority in the Riksdag, and we use it to influence the government. It takes too long, but not always. I own some real estate myself through my family business, and I myself have been involved in providing rent discounts to several companies. In fact, it was yesterday that I received the last reply, and I had applied in August. Unfortunately, it was a denial. The company I'm trying to help survive is so bad, they've spent a lot of their share capital. Then you don't get any support. Then I'll have to take that cost myself. Lars Helmered is absolutely right that it takes too long. I was at a meeting with the tourism industry in Dalarna two weeks ago, and there was the question: How long do you survive? Perhaps only 10 percent said they could survive three more months, while most said that they could survive a little longer. But it's very different between industries. The restaurant business and parts of the trade are the worst out there. However, I have one in my family who is a paint merchant, and there it is all-time-high. Not everyone is in a bad situation. But I agree with you, Lars Helmered, that it takes too long to process. There is too much control of companies, I think. I think that we should be able to pay out money more quickly and then do a post-control. The aid needs to be paid out quickly.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-638	Madam President, I would like I think this is a rather big problem. The pandemic came figuratively as a tidal wave, and I think people understand that we are allowed to take the laws we have and the opportunities that exist. At the time, for example, this tax and deferment was a very effective measure to help many companies around the country. I think it is a good thing that this opportunity has been extended. Short-term lay-offs have often worked quite well, not least in industry. Then there are some lessons to be learned in the case of some other aid, not least conversion aid and in the case of loss of turnover. There have often been too high demands. There has been uncertainty with the conditions that have been, for example, in terms of dividends, and there has been twitchiness. Similarly, there have been other problems for individual firms and whether trading companies should intervene and so on. I am afraid that companies will go bankrupt if this is not dealt with immediately. We have problems ahead of us, too.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-641	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars, for the questions! It has taken too long in some cases. It takes too long to get aid paid, and there will be liquidity problems. Then I think you can add short-term lay-off, conversion aid, deferred tax and this by avoiding health insurance costs. We have a bunch of things you can put together. I would also like us to be able to save all companies. That would be amazing. This is, of course, a temporary problem that has been more prolonged than we originally thought. Healthy, healthy businesses must help overcome the crisis, because they are needed when we get back out. I hope we will soon. I won't say any times, because nobody dares do that, but in the spring and before the summer I hope we have the companies left. That is why we need to spend a lot of money on them too.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-644	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the previous speaker in this important debate! Today, Chanukka begins, so I can start by wishing for a happy one that modern people in Sweden are celebrating today. I would like to try an alternative answer to the eternal question about the chicken and the egg. Actually, this story is about the chicken, the egg and the fox. That makes it a little tougher for the chicken, we can say. If you have a chicken or maybe two hens and maybe a rooster and you want more hens – you want eggs to sell somewhere, you might want to eat more eggs or be able to sell your hens – you need different things. Of course, you need feed for the hens. Perhaps you need thermal lamps, so that the eggs are well and can eventually hatch. You need isolation so it doesn't get too cold in the henyard. You might need some kind of fence around the place where the chickens live. All of this is therefore essential for more chickens. Translated into the policy area we are talking about today, it is about the need for broadband expansion, roads that work, education that works, energy and electricity, that is, the basic infrastructure that is needed at the bottom. It is the fundamental commitment of the state that we should be able to grow, that the hens should grow, and that the eggs should be laid and hatched in due course. But outside the henyard there are a lot of foxes. It doesn't matter how many heat bulbs, how much insulation or how much feed you pour on the hens if it constantly comes in foxes and takes them. It comes predators and destroys for our growth, that is, for the chickens we are about to feed. Examples of foxes can be high taxes, tough bureaucracy, long permit processes and authorities that are hard to deal with. Even if the infrastructure is in place, it will hinder growth. No matter how much support and subsidies you give and no matter how much you build out the infrastructure, there will be no good output if foxes come and eat our hens. Madam President, I would like In these debates, it is easy for politicians to say that they are doing things. It is easy to point to 1 million here or there in the budget – things that sometimes a little ridiculed are called press release money. There are small bets here and there – a small heat lamp that you put up in the hen house. However, it is important to remember that even if we build insulation and heat lamps, even if we pour on feed and even if we make sure that the infrastructure works, growth cannot be achieved throughout the country unless the foxes are killed, thus reducing red tape, shortening permit processes and ensuring that the business community is well off with competitively low taxes. Madam President, I would like In the debate on regional policy, we politicians tend to like conflicts. Now I'm moving a little away from the fox story, because I think you've got the point. A conflict that many politicians like to paint, enlarge and burn is the conflict that exists between city and country. But, Madam President, I would like to turn against politicians who are trying to turn Swedish politics into a conflict between city and country, because there is not really a conflict of interest between city and country. The city needs the whole of Sweden, and those who live outside the cities need cities. Why? Well, we need places where growth is created and where jobs are created, no matter in which part of the country they are. We need centres of knowledge development and research, which often end up in cities. But we also need excellence when it comes to production. We need our mining industry, our forest industry and our agriculture for the whole country to work and walk around. There is no inherent conflict between city and country. We're one and the same. In order for it to work properly, I believe that we politicians need to stop burning this conflict and instead see the similarities and opportunities that exist. Madam President, I would like I spoke to a colleague who is a politician in one of our northern municipalities and who highlighted the similarities between the mountain municipalities and the archipelago municipalities in the country. There are similarities in the number of minutes it takes to get to the workplace. There are similarities in the loss of service. There are similarities when it comes to the fact that there is not always a properly developed broadband. There are often similarities in socio-economics. There are similarities in the fact that it is often local economies that are seasonal. I spoke to another colleague from an old mill, where, unfortunately, the mill has been closed down and where structural changes have caused people to move. The colleague pointed out the socio-economic similarities between our mills and our suburbs in Sweden. There is also one thing that we must have with us. You have similar challenges no matter where you live in the country. It is basically a matter of getting rid of foxes, removing unnecessary bureaucracy and removing unnecessarily high taxes that will hold back people's drive, people's freedom, people's entrepreneurship and people's ability to lift up and the place where they live. But it is also a question of ensuring that the basic infrastructure is in place. If you are going to establish a company, you should always know that there is energy, that there is electricity and that there are training courses that work. It is about the fact that we are now taking advantage of the opportunities that exist when, for example, many universities have become better at distance education and training. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in this report. I am pleased with the tax cuts. I am pleased with the tax measures that the Liberals have included in the budget as a whole and that we will have. I am pleased with the proposals relating to infrastructure development, which are included in this particular part of the budget. And I urge my parliamentary colleagues to think about the foxes a little more and not just focus on the heat bulbs.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-659	Madam President, I would like In the media the other day, a retailer appealed to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the other partners for clearer and earlier support for those hard hit by the coronapandemine. In one of the ether media the other day, a hairdresser who operated his business as an individual firm appealed in the same way for support for his private economy and for the survival of the company. As far as individual firms are concerned, we know that the Parliament took a decision in June, which called for the government to return. It was eight months into the crisis that the Minister for Economic Affairs and the rest of the government made such a proposal to the Riksdag. We also know that for thousands of companies this is a terrible length of processing time for some of the aid that exists. For many companies, it is literally about their survival. They may have grappled with the consequences of the pandemic in the spring. They may have used a great deal of equity. They may even have made their own money. They have taken the measures they can take– they have, for example, terminated their staff or been on short-term leave. And then there's a second wave. And that is a twitch and uncertainty in what Mr Forssell, the Center Party, the Social Democrats and the Green Party have negotiated. I was just going to ask Joar Forssell about his and the Liberals' responsibilities in this. How do you intend to help take Sweden out of the problems that now affect entrepreneurs?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-664	Madam President, I would like Then I can inform Mrs Helmered that what we have done in this cooperation is that we have brought in things like layoffs. We have raised both turnover support and conversion support. We have brought in the measures that are on the tax side. We've been running these things. Had it not been for the participation of the Liberals in this constellation, we would not have seen the business support that has actually allowed many entrepreneurs to survive. But I want to say that I agree with Lars Helmered that it has been too hatty. Basically, it is problematic – and the Liberals have highlighted this – that measures relating to the protection of infection can be presented, and that in practice some people are banned from doing business without presenting the compensatory measures at the same time. The government chooses to present restrictions. Unfortunately, this has not been done together with the January partners. That's something the government does. Then negotiations enter into place, and in those negotiations we have pushed the question of the financial means that I think both I and Mr Helmered really like. We have criticised this. I hope that we will have the support of the Moderates as the process progresses, when we discuss pandemic legislation and so on later on, in terms of presenting compensatory measures at the same time as restrictions. Madam President, I would like It is basically a question of the government, when deciding on restrictions, also being given a basis in terms of the economy. You should know what it is you decide about, and it includes what compensation will be required.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-669	Madam President, I would like It was only yesterday that the government representative presented a draft of a so-called pandemic law. I think the initiative is right, because today's legislation has been rough and strange. Some businesses have had to keep closed, such as amusement parks. Other activities, such as zoos, have been able to remain open. It is not possible to defend and explain to an environment. So it is right to do so. But it is incomprehensible to me that the government can come up with this without linking it to compensation for companies. That is not acceptable to the Moderates at all. This must clearly go hand in hand. Then there's what's been now. I think one lesson so far has been that it has taken too long for the Liberals and the other January parties to agree that support is actually needed. It has taken too long for you to come up with concrete legislative proposals on conversion aid and other things in Parliament. Then it has taken too long for the authority to take decisions. A number of thousands of companies that are in danger of going bankrupt have been put at risk. I hope that you will help to steer this towards the New Year.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-673	Madam President, I would like It almost sounds like Lars Helmered has read some of the Liberal debate articles on this subject. Just the things Helmered highlights are things that the Liberals have repeatedly highlighted. Financial support is required and is required on time. It takes them to get through. People and companies, regardless of their legal form, should be able to receive support that compensates for the corona restrictions. I look forward to working together with Lars Helmered and his party and other parties in the Riksdag to ensure that in the future we get legislation that means that governments need to present compensatory measures while presenting restrictions. Basically, it is about creating legal certainty for our entrepreneurs and ensuring that we can have companies in the future as well as having a basis for decision-making.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-677	Madam President, I would like I reacted a little to Joar Forssell's parallels between treasure and henworming foxes. But now we're talking about regional development. We have seen that public services have left rural and sparsely populated areas. A number of changes have been made that have weakened the countryside, and many feel that they cannot remain where they actually have their jobs, their homes and so on because there is so much difference between living in rural and sparsely populated areas and living in big cities. It has been seen how health centres and health care have left the city, public transport is non-existent and so on. It could be said that the fence is not maintained due to the lack of tax funding and that the feed is no longer nutritious. As the honourable Member raised the question, I feel a little forgotten what a difference taxes actually make in such areas. It also forgets how important it is for companies. It should not be forgotten that many times driving and innovation are created thanks to the support of taxpayers. Entrepreneurs need a lot of things around them to make companies work. You need roads, medical care, housing and so on. Otherwise, you can't have businesses in rural and rural areas.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-680	Madam President, I would like It is absolutely right that you need roads, schools, health care, police, justice and a lot of things no matter where you live in the country. These are things that are being invested in the budget. In my story about the fox and the chicken, these are the heat bulbs and the things you raise the hens with. The point here is that we must also allow people, wherever they live in the country, to use their driving forces, to use their freedom and to have their place to flourish. One must be able to set up a business, a business that ensures that economic prosperity grows, that it becomes a better place to live and live for others too, and that we have a more vibrant countryside everywhere in the country. That is where the foxes, i.e. the high taxes, the long state processes and the tough bureaucracy, put a stop to it. Madam President, I would like The honourable Member asks me if I do not know what the difference taxes make. Well, I know that a high tax means that a person who grows up with small financial margins does not have the opportunity to save up for a start-up capital or a stake for an apartment or a house. I know that high taxes in rural areas, for example, make people choose to leave. I understand that high taxes make it more difficult for entrepreneurs outside cities to employ skilled workers. Madam President, I would like I can inform the honourable Member that I know the difference between the high tax rates in some of our rural municipalities. It means that growth cannot take off, and it means that in future we cannot afford to build the infrastructure, the thermal lamps, that are being demanded.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-684	Madam President, I would like Sometimes you get the feeling that it is difficult to start a business in Sweden. In fact, it is not compared to other countries. What you need, for example, is better loan bases. Today, there are hardly any banks in rural areas that know what difficulties there are in setting up a business under those conditions. Entrepreneurs, too, need social security, and I believe that we can do much more than we do today. These are the measures that entrepreneurs need. To simplify rules and so on, the government has been working on, but there are other things. Perhaps we need to ensure that our funds are used properly. Today you don't. Today, for example, companies are trying to open up private health centres in rural areas, even though they do not want to, because they are not making enough money. That's what our tax money goes to.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-687	Madam President, I would like With regard to the basic social infrastructure that the state should take responsibility for, there is no dividing line in Swedish politics: All parties in this House want schools, healthcare, care and infrastructure that work throughout the country. We have some different ideas about how to do it, but everyone is in on it. It is a bit strange – or perhaps not – that the Left Party claims to know what entrepreneurs need and want. It happens to be the same things that the Left Party always thinks you should have, regardless of which group you talk about. When I talk to business associations and individual entrepreneurs, they tell me that they need regulatory simplification, reduced bureaucracy and reduced taxes. It must be easier and cheaper to hire wherever you live in Sweden. They are simply asking for their freedom, and that is something that the Left Party often finds difficult to give to traders, so also in this debate.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-690	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. Regional development policy will give all parts of Sweden the opportunity to develop according to their conditions. It concerns cities, urban areas, rural areas and sparsely populated areas. The opportunities to live, live and work throughout the country need to be improved. We need a green recovery – a green transition that stops climate change, a green transition that makes Sweden a fossil-free welfare country with jobs, security, service and economic development. We need a green start to face the crisis triggered by the coronapndemine and strongly affected the situation in the labour market and for many of our entrepreneurs around the country. The green one is the EU's instrument for re-launching the economy in a sustainable way with massive public investment. It is an effort to direct private capital towards climate and environmental measures with a coordinated financial system to promote sustainability, which supports transitions in all sectors. Sweden was appointed the other day for the fourth year in a row as the country at the forefront of climate change work. I and the Green Party are very proud of that. In view of the ongoing pandemic, the EU has decided on a more flexible regulatory framework for the EU's cohesion policy for the programming period. In the context of the React-EU, the EU has also proposed more funds. The Member States themselves can decide on the allocation of this money and the focus of their efforts on the basis of the regulatory framework. In Sweden, efforts will make a strong contribution to the green and digital transition, and with the Structural Funds partnerships we have a political and economic force that can contribute to the work of municipalities, regions and businesses throughout the country. From next year, investments will have a stronger link to climate, environmental and energy transition. A friend of mine contacted me a few weeks ago. She had listened to a climate professor. So important and interesting, she said. But she lacked the positive climate vision. We need to be more climate-friendly. Not only should we achieve negative emissions, but we must also ensure that knowledge about climate change as the priority of policy number one must be better known. We need to be better at describing the positive thing about Sweden becoming a fossil-free welfare country, that Sweden should be a country with healthier air, cleaner water, healthier people, better food and with a strong faith in the future. We have to tell them that climate and nature protection measures are linked, that more jobs are created, that economic development can be strengthened when money is invested and when investors are looking for sustainable projects to invest in. The transformation of Sweden is not a threat. Climate change is the threat. The Climate Act and the Climate Action Programme lay the foundation for our positive story about how to cope with climate change. The work is in full swing. Already 20 years ago we started vigorously by phasing out the villa oil. It was thanks to the Green Party. Now we need to speed up to replace all fossil fuels and develop smarter solutions that generate less energy, that develop smart grids and lead to a smarter Sweden, a greener Sweden and a more interconnected Europe. We need to invest in broadband, education, entrepreneurship and social inclusion. The effects of the megatrends of globalisation, digitalisation, climate change and demographic change shape the economic landscape of rural areas strongly. I have seen several public debaters reflect that urbanisation may be halted if our digital forms of work that we are developing now during the pandemic can remain after the corona. Digitalisation can really strengthen the work of rural development. When I visited the rural health centre in Storuman, they showed that the development of digital health care not only provides better care to people in sparsely populated areas but also greater environmental benefits. The fact that digitalisation should have its power source and development point in sparsely populated areas is a big and important point for Sweden. In sparsely populated areas, demographic development as it stands is now the demographic development that we can see in cities in 20 years' time. That is why we are also developing new technologies and solutions in rural areas today. We should probably call Region Västerbotten's initiative not only the Glebygdsmedicinska center but also the future medical centre. Madam President, I would like We need to talk a lot more about the relocation of jobs in our authorities. One of the initiatives the government is making in the field of nature-related jobs provides opportunities to get more jobs in, among other things, SGU in Malå. It's important work for a small town in Västerbotten. I have visited the SGU myself and talked to the people who work there. Natural jobs are needed to ensure that old cores are covered so that they do not harm animals and nature or people moving in forests. Technology development is needed, but there is also a need for people and businesses to be involved in change. Rural businesses have a very important role to play in the transition to a greener and low carbon society. Rural businesses are involved in creating a viable countryside with jobs, welfare and housing. Sustainable use of natural resources is the basis for a stronger economy. Efforts on biodiversity in the forest are the basis for Sweden's export success in the forest sector. Climate adaptation, risk prevention resilience and reduced vulnerability must be the basis for the transition to a circular bio-based economy. The climate transition should be fair. It should be made so that people and regions can cope with the social, economic and environmental consequences of the transition to a climate-positive Sweden. The Fair Conversion Fund will help the steel, mineral and metal industries in the upper Norrland to adapt. The conversion of heavy industry requires an absolute amount of electricity. SSAB's and LKAB's conversion is based on the production of hydrogen to use in their processes. For this type of production, large amounts of renewable electricity and the wind energy investments we see in Norrland are well suited. It may be good to know that at least KD mentioned that nuclear power is not suitable for this very thing. Madam President, I would like Sweden faces major challenges. Rural areas are important. We members of the Swedish Parliament represent the whole country, and we must work more for the whole country.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-710	Madam President, I would like The forest is an area that I think combines the Swedish economy, green transition and a vibrant countryside. We know that there have been, and do exist, a number of issues that are extremely important for forests, forestry policy and not least the few hundred thousand forest owners. A few years ago, the big discussion about the so-called biotopinventory was stopped. There is now an ongoing discussion about what is called taxonomy, i.e. whether Swedish forestry should be classified as sustainable or not sustainable. The other day there was a proposal to set up a forest investigation. Madam President, I would like I would like to raise the last point with Maria Gardfjell. Is it the focus of her, the Green Party and the other cooperation parties to increase forest provision? Or is the focus on politics, given this investigation, about reducing provisions and thus strengthening ownership rights in Swedish forestry policy?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-713	Madam President, I would like A little later this evening, we will discuss the area of forest policy. Then we can go into the area more carefully. It is quite right that the Forest investigation presented its proposal last week. It is a comprehensive investigation that contains many different parts. I do not believe that there is a single political party or an actor in the forest area who is satisfied with the entire investigation, but there are views on many parts of it. It shows a little bit that the Forest investigation has nevertheless taken its responsibilities seriously and tried to come up with a well-balanced proposal. Given that there are many of us who are a bit angry about the Forest investigation, I hope that we can have a better dialogue on forestry issues in the future. It deserves the nutrition, the forest and the conservation of nature. For the Green Party, it is important that there are two great ambitions. One is that we must meet the climate challenge. Another is that we also have to cope with biodiversity. It is a matter of course for us to be able to develop a policy that unites those elements. Why is it so important? Because the international researchers in the field of biodiversity and climate scientists agree that it is absolutely necessary to meet the biodiversity targets if we are also to meet the climate targets.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-717	Madam President, I would like Politics is to want, it's usually called. I note that among the four cooperation parties, forestry policy is interpreted quite differently, whether the focus is to increase provisions and reduce ownership rights or whether it is to hold back on the latter in order to increase ownership. The Green Party and the others need to be clear; what is the direction forward so that the 300 000 private forest owners know what the policy is? Furthermore, the so-called taxonomy is now under discussion. There is a concrete proposal that the Forest Industries and others claim is extremely bad for forestry policy and can jeopardise the sustainable Swedish forestry model. Does the Green Party share the view that it is a bad proposal from the European Commission that should be stopped or withdrawn?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-719	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that Sweden is a country that has many individual forest owners. It is important for our forestry that we have it. I myself am a partner in a forest property in northern Västerbotten, and I think it is important that we have a focus on the small forest owners and do not leave them in the lurch. When they sell their forest to the big forest companies, who want to export to markets in other countries and demand that biodiversity in the forest be protected, we must not leave the small forest owner in the lurch and say: You'll have the knowledge to do this on your own. It doesn't work, Taxonomin is very important. It will give Sweden's companies a lot of money to invest for.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-722	Madam President, I would like Mr Gardfjell mentioned the period when we phased out the villa oil. I'm old enough to remember when Grandpa traded his old oil boiler for a combi boiler. In it you could both burn with wood and use the electric cartridge as a support fire with oil. What I can remember from that time, he would not have suffered any kind of malus treasure if he had kept the old forehead. It makes me unseemly to think of bonuses – the Malus system, which is something that not least the Green Party loves to drive. Now they want to raise the Malus part for the country's car owners. Then I am thinking of a family car such as Volkswagen Tiguan, who has had a vehicle tax of approximately SEK 2,500 a year, now will have a vehicle tax of approximately SEK 14,500. It is a four-wheeled, safe and popular car, not least in the countryside. Can we see from the Green Party that the family economy of people living in rural areas can be overcome when we are advocating the phasing out of cars of this type before there is a sensible alternative to solving the transport needs of people even in sparsely populated areas?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-724	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Eric Palmqvist! I love talking about cars because at one time I was very involved in the association Green Bilister. What is important when it comes to bonuses – malus is that it concerns new car sales. It is extremely important to get the new fossil-free cars to roll out on the market as quickly as possible so that at a later stage there will be plenty of secondary cars to buy for us who do not necessarily need to buy a new car. I know that there are many people living in rural areas who reason that they do not want to pay the extra money it costs just to drive the car home from the car trade, so to speak. Instead, you are happy to buy a used car. Now we need a lot of new cars on the market, so that we can switch to more electric power and to biogas. Of course, we also need to continue with the investments that exist within the framework of climate change, and partly also the urban environment agreements, in order to ensure that we can make a change in traffic policy.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-727	Madam President, I would like The registration statistics speak clearly: The new electric cars are registered in the big cities, and the cars affected by the Malus tax end up in sparsely populated areas. I note that the attitude is therefore that new, safe cars with the latest technology and the latest constructions should be mostly in big cities. It will benefit those who live there. With this reasoning, those living in sparsely populated areas will be content with used cars. It does not feel attractive in my ears; I think that those who live in sparsely populated areas and have long distances and wild on their roads may be the ones who would be best promoted by having new, safe and modern cars. This will not be the case, however, with the policy proposed by Mr Gardfjell.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-729	Madam President, I would like Of course you can also buy new cars in the countryside. But the fact is that the rural residents have great advantages because the electric car can be charged at home – you don't have to go maybe one or two miles just to refuel the car. An electric car will be the big thing in the countryside pretty soon. I think there is a small threshold for investing in electric cars in, for example, inner Norrland. It requires that a number of people do it first and are forerunners, but then this will be released on. Indeed, the advantage of being able to refuel the car at home will be exploited by many.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-730	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate Category 22 in the state budget. I would like to begin by saying that we in the Left Party have tabled our own draft budget, which we call the Way out of the crisis – a plan for equality and green transition. There we invest far more than the government in building a more equal and sustainable Sweden. That is why I refer to our specific opinion in the report. This field of expenditure covers expenditure of SEK 74 billion. These are important efforts to reduce emissions and to achieve the goal of a socially efficient and sustainable transport supply system, as well as a transport system that women and men can benefit from on equal terms – i.e. an equal transport system. In particular, it concerns the sector target for the transport sector, i.e. reduced emissions by at least 70% by 2030. At present, we are far from that goal. If we don't reach our climate targets, we're endangering good lives for our children and grandchildren. It is therefore high time to speed up the process of conversion. Madam President, I would like We're in the middle of a pandemic. Covid-19 is terrible in every way. Our societies are closing down, people are becoming unemployed, businesses are going bankrupt and people are dying. I speak from my own experience; I have had covid-19, and that was not to be played with. Therefore, we must do everything in our power to prevent the further spread of this disease. Like all crises, however, this also carries a seed of change. Now that we are going to restart the Swedish and European economies, we must ensure that we do not repeat old mistakes. We have a unique opportunity for a sustainable and fair restart of our economies, which is also proposed by, among other things, the Climate Policy Council. This applies, in particular, to the transport sector. However, when I read the government's draft budget and the twelve amending budgets that have come in the course of the year, I wonder where the link with our climate targets is. In the field of transport, I am surprised that the government is not giving full compensation to public transport for the loss of ticket revenue suffered as a result of political calls to people not to travel collectively. And where is the vision for our cities? As more and more people work from home, the cities are gaping empty – the transports have decreased. In cities around the world, such as Paris, Milan, Barcelona and Copenhagen, the car is abandoned as the norm in urban planning. Style formation is Paris' political vision of the 15-minute city where all relevant public service should be within a radius of 15 minutes by walk or cycle. It works actively to replace car roads and parking spaces with bike paths and green areas. We in the Left Party want to go the same way. Therefore, in this report, we are allocating just over SEK 10 billion for the next three years in our unique investment in sustainable, equal and transport-efficient cities – this to build sustainable, transport-efficient and equal cities after the Corona. This will benefit all citizens of society, but especially low income earners – those who today suffer the most from emissions and noise. In addition, we allocate additional state aid to public transport in addition to the 2 billion promised by the government for next year. Bus lines withdrawn cannot be an option. Public transport must be developed, not decommissioned. We now also have a unique opportunity to achieve sustainable freight transport. Despite the infrastructure minister's good strategy and the freight transport council, freight has not been transferred from road to rail and shipping, although this was the stated objective when the strategy and the Council were set up more than two years ago. The environmental compensation of SEK 400 million to the railway that the government is now proposing is welcome, but what the Minister of Finance gives with one hand she takes back fivefold with the other. In fact, SEK 2 billion will be taken from the railway in the form of increased rail charges. Why tax the railways at this difficult time? I would like to ask the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals. The government can no longer hide behind the EU in this matter. Both in a specific regulation and most recently in the new mobility strategy, the EU has opened up reduced or abolished track charges, all to allow for a shift from road to more sustainable modes of transport. Madam President, I would like I am also surprised that the government does not take the initiative to establish so-called freight commutes on the railway so that it can be transported every night from Skåne and Gothenburg to Stockholm, for example, and then back to those places. Jernhusen, who manages many terminals, and the entire industry is ready. There is now time on the tracks, but a start-up grant is needed. When will we see it? I would like to ask the government parties that. In addition, the Left Party allocates SEK 200 million in a flexible investment pool. This is in addition to the current business pot. That pot shall be capable of providing support for the expansion of combined terminals, transhipment terminals and triangular tracks. This should be able to speed up the transfer of goods from road to rail and shipping in the near future. Madam President, I would like We also need to increase passenger transport on the railways. Then we need to invest more both in new rail and in the maintenance of existing ones. That is why we in the Left Party want to advance the construction of several railway routes identified in the national infrastructure plan. We also want to spend more money on regional routes – railways which, unfortunately, are now left behind because of a lack of resources from the government. We also need to build high-speed lines and connect our Swedish railway lines with the European ones. The high-speed lanes must be lifted out of regular planning and built as a separate project in a private organisation with borrowed money. If we build, the high-speed lines can be completed by 2030. We also need to give SJ new owner directives where they are required to drive night trains down to the continent and provide foreign tickets and where a one-sided profit focus can be replaced by driving more trains but at reasonable fares. The market experiment in railway maintenance must end. The aim shall be to obtain a top-class railway in terms of punctuality, service and frequency. This will, of course, cost, but it can be financed, including through an increase in air taxes and a charge on long-distance truck transport. Madam President, I would like We need to see cycling as a mode of transport for which the bicycle infrastructure is expanded in coherent networks with more bicycle parks and a loan cycle system and where the bike can be taken on board the train. Our passenger car fleet needs electrification. We in the Left Party want a ban on new cars powered by fossil fuels by 2025. The Left Party does not want to build new, expensive motorways that increase motorism and emissions. Our cities must be planned on the basis of walking, cycling and public transport, not on the basis of the needs of the car. More investment also needs to be made for sustainable shipping with sustainable fuels. The role of the Maritime Administration as a business, with constantly increasing fees, is not reasonable, and this makes the necessary conversion of shipping difficult. The Swedish Maritime Administration should therefore be financed like other authorities, mainly with grants from the state budget. Madam President, I would like These are some examples of issues that fall within the area of expenditure we are now debating and in which we in the Left Party have concrete proposals for improvements. The draft budget presented by the S-MP government, supported by the Center Party and the Liberals, does not meet the objectives that we in the Left Party want to see. We in the Left Party therefore allocate SEK 12 billion only this year in addition to the government's budget for the transformation of the transport sector. Some may wonder how we in the Left Party can afford those bets. We can do this, Madam President, because we are dismissing the government's tax cuts for already wealthy people. We say that those who pollute will pay more and that those who earn a lot will contribute more to climate change. That is how we can finance the necessary transformation of the transport sector. We in the Left Party call it a plan for equality and green transition.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-753	Madam President, I would like I think it is a good thing that the Left Party prioritises security and reduced climate emissions. I also remember that during the last parliamentary term we had very constructive budgetary cooperation with the Left Party. Nevertheless, I cannot fail to reply to the chairman of the committee, Jens Holm, from the Left Party on the lavish ambitions of the Left Party for public transport. We are friends of public transport to a very large extent, but I think you should perhaps be a little careful when you choose in your budget to blindly listen to the Chairman of Swedish Public Transport and the Moderate Transport Council of Stockholm County Council. When they forecast their 10 billion, which is also the sum that the Left Party totals, they calculated from a week in April when in practice there were no public transport passengers at all. This has not been the case during the year. When you look at the forecast for the result in Stockholm County Council, for example, you see that they will make a surplus of 3.3 billion. Public transport in Skåne will make a surplus of about half a billion. Instead of using the half billion that we have already paid out to Skånetrafiken via an extra budget, they choose to literally dump wages, plan in forms of employment and so on. After all, this money does not land properly, and then fertilising with money for things that in practice contribute to tax cuts in our regions does not seem to me to be good priorities.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-757	Madam President, I would like It is absolutely true that we in the Left want to give public transport full compensation for the loss of revenue received during the pandemic. We want that because it is we in politics and our authorities who are calling on our citizens not to travel collectively. Then our regional public transport authorities lose a lot of money. It is an assessment that the government also makes, but they do not run the line fully, so to speak. The government has allocated 3 billion extra in compensation for public transport for this year. That was something we in the Left Party backed up. In the budget that we are debating now, SEK 2 billion has been added. We in the Left Party also think that this is a good thing. However, when you look at how the funding goes, you see that it is not enough for public transport to be fully compensated for its loss of revenue. I believe that public transport needs about twice as much. Teres Lindberg says that the Left Party has lavish funding for public transport. Yes, we want to allocate a great deal. It is not just a question of compensating public transport for the pandemic, but we also want to extend it to improve it. I would like to know whether Teres Lindberg and the Social Democrats believe that the amount allocated now, EUR 3 billion for this year and EUR 2 billion for next year, is sufficient to compensate public transport.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-761	Madam President, I would like In fact, I am very concerned about the demand apparatus that has started from the current pandemic. I think it is important for us in the state to be involved in compensating, strengthening well-being and ensuring that health care, public transport and so on work. However, I do not think it is reasonable that we have regions that are making surpluses as a result of increased state subsidies that they do not use to strengthen welfare and public transport. They have received general state subsidies to meet the challenges. In addition, they have received targeted state subsidies. But they don't use them. Then I would like to say that these are the wrong priorities for us. We must ensure that the state subsidies that go to the regions to strengthen welfare, health care, public transport and so on also benefit these activities, because ultimately it is the citizens who are affected by what is happening right now.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-763	Madam President, I would like I can only agree that the cuts made in public transport in Region Skåne and how to treat bus drivers with poor working conditions, planing and other things are totally unacceptable. They also save here in the Stockholm region, but it may not be quite as bad as in Skåne. I agree it's not okay. But it is a discussion that should rather be held in those congregations. What I note is that the government is not able to give enough money to public transport for the lost revenue during the pandemic. We are now apparently getting a response here from the Social Democrats, namely that they want to punish those regions. I do not think this is an acceptable way of dealing with public transport and its travellers.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-765	Madam President, I would like It is worth recalling that this is a budget debate. There are reasons, Madam President, to remind the Left Party representative, Jens Holm, that the 3 plus 2 billion for public transport, which you have just discussed, has not been in a budget for this year. They were available because, since the beginning of the 1990s and mine, this country has had a sound and prudent fiscal policy that has made this country, unlike other countries, have the resources to deploy when the pandemic struck. Don't forget, Jens Holm, when you start scattering billions in different directions, that if you don't have the resources you can't face the crises! I have two specific questions relating to Jens Holm's speech. Does Sweden, according to Jens Holm's view, have higher or lower track charges than the EU average? Has Sweden compared to the EU average a more market-oriented railway infrastructure or not? So: Higher or lower rail charges than the EU average and more or less market in Sweden on the rail side than the EU average? I have one more specific question. Jens Holm has a strong investment in railway terminals, change of gear and so on. Jens Holm said in his speech that the investment was SEK 200 million. Did I hear you right?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-769	Madam President, I would like Thank you for Anders Åkesson's questions. It is true that the government has allocated 3 plus 2 billion SEK to public transport, and, as I said earlier, that is not enough. That is why we in the Left Party are spending more money. It would have been good to have the support of the Center Party for those proposals, but unfortunately we do not. Sweden, as far as I know, has lower rail charges than the EU average. And my assessment is that Sweden has a very liberalised railway compared to most other EU countries. In our draft budget, we allocate more than SEK 12 billion in addition to the efforts made by the government together with the Center Party. This is an investment of SEK 200 million – Åkesson heard correctly – an addition to the business pool that already exists. We want to invest more in the development of state transport infrastructure with almost SEK 5 billion. We also want to make rail investments of just over SEK 1 billion and lower rail charges. We want both to invest in the main tracks and to upgrade the regional tracks in our country, including Tjustbanan and Stångedalsbanan, because we have money for such investments.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-776	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the specific question. Me and the Center Party are pushing on very hard for the finely masked part of the Swedish transport infrastructure, both road and rail. But I think that Jens Holm's interest in Tjustbanan and Stångedalsbanan should render a study in how much you get for 200 million SEK. Transport infrastructure is expensive, especially by rail. 200 million is just nothing, Jens Holm. That's a nice number. My conclusion on the big question is that there were two answers that were right. Sweden has lower rail charges than the EU average. Sweden has more market economy than planned economy in its railway compared to the EU. In Sweden, we can have lower costs, thanks to the fact that we have an efficient market economy combined with a state-owned rail system. That's great. Should not the conclusion then be, Jens Holm, that we should have a more market economy and thus be able to lower the EU average in terms of rail charges? It is, of course, particularly goods that we need to get up on the railways to relieve the road system. The goods cross land borders.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-778	Madam President, I would like I welcome the fact that the Center Party is pushing more money into regional paths, but I cannot see any impact on it in the budget. That is why we in the Left Party are spending more money. Our funding is SEK 12 billion in this area of expenditure. About half of it, more than SEK 6 billion, is used to maintain and build new railways. The 200 million kronor is an expansion of the business pool, and it is only per year, so it will be 600 million in three years. We're trying to lower the track charges. We want to follow what is being done in many other EU countries now during the pandemic, which is reducing or abolishing track charges altogether. I regret that the Center Party is unable to do so in this budget.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-781	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by admitting that Mr Holm has more money in his budget than the Christian Democrats have. I was very curious when I listened to the speech on rail and even the lack of the speech on road. The reason for my curiosity is a small calculation that I, when I had the privilege of returning to Parliament some year ago, asked one of our officials to do. If we increase the freight flow by 100%, what effect would that have on the truck flow? If we take 100 percent more on rail, what does it mean with 2018 figures in reduced flow on truck? The answer is 8%. It is not possible, therefore, to make a speech in this House with credibility, in which the only solution is to argue strongly in favour of the railways. The Christian Democrats want more rail. We want the Nordic triangle to be improved as well as the railway up to Norrland. We believe it is very important to get working commutes running, preferably at night when other flows are not on the track. We are in favour of this and are on the same budget as the government, which, moreover, has over time increased the budget on both rail and road. But the theory itself, to set transport modes against each other, does not hold. We will need so-called inland ports where trucks bring goods to rail, just as we have real ports, according to me as a resident, where we receive goods from abroad and can ship goods to foreign countries. My basic question is: how is the Left Party going to get rid of all the goods that have to go into the fine-capillary system?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-787	Madam President, I would like I'm not quite sure I'm following Magnus Jacobsson's reasoning. How much we reduce road freight transport and move to rail and shipping depends on what investment we make. We in the Left Party are not against each other in terms of modes of transport, but we are basing ourselves on what has long been both government policy and policy at European level, namely the need for a shift from road transport to more sustainable modes of transport such as rail and shipping. I note, for example, that in its mobility strategy, published yesterday, the European Union wants to increase rail freight by 50%. It is a fine vision that we should really strive to realise. Madam President, I would like What is not really connected with Magnus Jacobsson's and Christian Democrats' policy is that they want to reduce the conditions for transporting goods on the railway. They abolish the government's investment of SEK 400 million in environmental compensation for rail freight transport. How can we get more freight on the railways when the Christian Democrats make it more expensive to transport on the railways? That will be the consequence of your policy. Is it perhaps the case that the Christian Democrats do not think it is important to move freight transport from road to rail? If so, I think that the Christian Democrats can tell us this in Parliament's pulpit. Madam President, I would like It cannot be said that we want to do more and then present a draft budget with a unilateral focus on reduced taxes and cuts in this area, not investments.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-793	Madam President, I would like It is quite correct that we have turned down some of the government's efforts that we regard as ineffective. We do not believe that they will deliver the result that the government, together with the Liberals and the Centers, believe. Let's make a completely different assessment. We believe, as previous representatives said, that Sweden has relatively low rail charges and a relatively well-functioning market, which we are in favour of. Madam President, I would like I note that I am not getting an answer to my main question. If we double the freight flow, it affects about 8% of the moving. It does not help with more boats or more trains, because there is no boat all the way to my mother in Delebäck. It's a system that's connected, and that's where the shortage is. It's not a lack of money, it's a lack of social analysis.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-795	Madam President, I would like Magnus Jacobsson's example of calculation must stand for him, but let me emphasise that a reduction of 8% in road transport would not be insignificant. That would mean significantly reduced emissions, reduced noise and reduced congestion, and that is exactly what we need. If we put forward a draft budget with reduced funding for rail freight, we will not have more rail transport but fewer, and that is exactly what the Christian Democrats' policy will lead to.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-797	Madam President, I would like One of the most popular TV shows in the world right now is The Crown. It describes Queen Elizabeth's almost 70 years in power. On November 24, 1992, the Queen gave one of her most famous and personal talks. That year had been sad for the country with economic crisis and for her own family with Prince Charles and Princess Diana's divorce. The Queen summarized 1992 as an annus horribilis, a terrible year. Madam President, I would like 2020 has been an annus horribilis for the world, for Sweden and for Swedish infrastructure. We have been able to note that entire industries within Swedish infrastructure have gone from full operations to basically halting. Aviation, parts of the bus industry, public transport – the list of critical industries is long. We don't know when the crisis is over. However, the vaccine is a light in the tunnel that gives hope for a better 2021. One thing we know for sure, however, is that we will be living with the aftermath of the Corona crisis for a long time. In the short term, it is about here and now supporting and helping industries. In the longer perspective, it is a matter of affirming all the opportunities ahead if we are only able to lift our eyes. Despite this annus horribilis, we are in the middle of a technological leap that can be described as a paradigm shift. The development of electric aircraft, electric cars, biofuels and hydrogen is booming. The battery power has doubled in two years, and we can probably start flying with electricity from 2025. There is also an enormous and untapped opportunity to extract biofuels from forests and agriculture, and hydrogen research is constantly taking new steps. Further to the horizon, we sense the future as hyperloop is now being tested. All of this is exciting and important. Madam President, I would like In their draft budget, the Moderates affirm socio-economic benefits and technological developments in which the combustion engine powered by fossil fuels is phased out in all modes. Within just over a decade, all modes of transport will probably be fossil-free. People and businesses need a climate-smart, efficient, sustainable and competitive transport system that they can rely on. We want socio-economic benefits to guide decisions within the infrastructure. Our budget therefore prioritises long-term investments in the production of biofuels and electrification of roads, ports and airports. This together contributes to more jobs and increased competitiveness while reducing transport emissions. The Moderates want to see a modern sustainable policy for more jobs and increased commuting. Although our electrification effort is not in the Transport Committee's spending area, our budget has an historic investment of 2 billion in electrification of the transport sector. In the Transport Committee's spending area, we are adding 1 billion more than the government to the regions to compensate for the loss of public transport revenue during the pandemic. It is important that public transport continues to work during the pandemic for those who have to use it and that it remains and is functioning on the day we can start using public transport to the full again. We are also spending 100 million more than the government on non-governmental airports. Several of them are currently at risk of closure. We also want to provide support to all non-state airports and not, as the government, exclude some of them. Finally, the Moderates invest SEK 250 million more than the government in road maintenance. Dissatisfaction is great outside the country, where many see that the speed limits are lowered instead of the roads being maintained. Only today were six Social Democratic councillors out in the Society of Today and complained about this very fact. We want to increase road safety by investing in maintenance instead of lowering speeds. Madam President, I would like So even in such a terrible year as 2020, there are good reasons to feel hope and confidence for the future. However, this presupposes that we make the right political decisions today. Many decisions in the area of infrastructure policy are made on the basis that certain modes of transport are better than others for the climate. The government's policy assumes that the situation in 2030 will be similar to that in 2020. This is an unreasonable assumption given the rapid technological developments currently underway, where we see fossil combustion engines gradually being replaced by fossil-free alternatives. Technical development of e.g. electric motors and hydrogen together with biofuels creates completely new conditions for all modes of transport. It is both economically and environmentally unwise to try, for example, to use the pandemic to starve aircraft. The Moderates see the infrastructure as a whole where all modes of transport are needed, and efficiency, socio-economic benefits and climate concerns are what should guide all investments. In other countries, there is a trend towards linking traffic law and, for example, ensuring that there is a railway connection to airports. In Sweden only Kramfors and Arlanda have that connection, and if you look at the development of new main tracks, if they are ever built, you can see that the proposal right now is to remove the station at Landvetter. Madam President, I would like The government's policy can, at its best, be summed up with the words too little and too late. It is good that the government is in favour of biofuels, but it has soon been two years since Maria Wetterstrand's investigation was completed and presented her proposals. The question is still being prepared in the Government Office. It is good to support public transport within the regions, but the government gives at least 1 billion too little. It was only in the third year of the government's second term that the government appointed an electrification commission. All these are examples of doing too little and too late. Madam President, I would like We Moderates are deeply concerned about the future of aviation in Sweden. We need a well-functioning domestic flight and more direct lines out into the world, not fewer. The signals from the government are worrying. In the midst of a burning pandemic, the government is ordering a report from Swedavia on the possibility of closing Bromma prematurely. Already earlier, the Arlanda Council's final report has been placed in an office drawer away from the public light, and now several signals are coming from the government that it is no longer relevant to develop Arlanda at all. The signal is that the flight is not desirable. This week the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise went out and was clear about the importance of aviation for companies and growth. We Moderates want Arlanda to develop into the leading airport in the Nordic region, not become a feeder airport to Kastrup. The flight's changing, and the emissions are falling. We need to create the conditions for the future and for future electric flights. The Moderates' proposal for appropriations in the field of expenditure is above the level set by Parliament on 25 November. The Moderates' budgetary options should be seen as a whole. That is why we choose to abstain and instead present a specific opinion on Moderate policy in Category 22.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-817	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by congratulating the Moderates for having sat at the wheel of the driver's seat just over 11 years ago and developed the high climate targets that Sweden has for the transport sector. In fact, these are the same objectives that we still have and which seven out of ten parliamentary parties have supported. It is about having net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2045 and the intermediate target of reducing emissions by 70% by 2030. But if you Moderates are to be credible, Maria Stockhaus, you must stop sabotaging climate policy. It's too important for us not to be able to hold a united front. Swedish industry is today demanding faster delivery of policy. Now that business is on, they must feel confident that climate policy, regardless of the majority, must continue and that there is a consensus. The other day, Volvo's CEO was out saying that we should ban the petrol cars. Scania has been screaming for a very long time about electric roads, but you choose instead to just talk. In reality, you say no to pursuing a policy that has an effect in reality. I'm really thinking about how you think you're going to be able to meet the climate targets, when you've gone from sitting in the driver's seat to getting out of the car and sitting in a trailer that's parked on an uphill hill, having poorly functioning brakes and slowly rolling backwards. How are you going to meet the climate challenges with the proposals you put forward in your budget option?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-821	Madam President, I would like Teres Lindberg is making very sweeping accusations. I can agree that we fully agree on the objectives, but I think we have slightly different views on the way there and how to reach them. If someone has put themselves on a trailer uphill, it is the government, given the widespread criticism that the government's climate policy has received – that it is ineffective, that there is a lot of placard politics and that very little of the policy has an impact on the climate. In our budget we spend 2 billion on electrification, among other things, to get it moving. This about something, phasing out fossil-driven modes of transport and moving towards a more electrified fleet of vehicles, is one of the most important measures we can do. It shall be possible to drive an electric car everywhere. My picture is that the government, as I said, is taking a lot of measures that have no effect and which are demonstrably not because it receives so much criticism when the measures are evaluated. There is a huge investment in high-speed trains that will do no good at all for the climate. At best it will be 2030 or 2050 – 2030 I actually don't think will last. This puts a wet blanket over other important infrastructure investments. I would like to say that if there are any people who are stuck in the cart uphill, it is the government that is not taking on new technology and is not looking forward.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-825	Madam President, I would like Maybe I can concretize a little. In reality, Maria Stockhaus, you want to remove the investment in the Climate Centre, which is about SEK 2 billion and the expansion of charging infrastructure. You want to replace it and instead invest 1 billion in charging infrastructure. You want to abolish the investment of half a billion that we have in electrified transport. You also want to remove the investments we have in increasing cycling within the framework of the urban environment agreement. You want to remove environmental compensation for rail freight – 400 million. You want to get rid of the night train to Europe. And you're saying no to the biorefinery investment. The biggest effort in your draft budget is to reduce petrol and diesel taxes by SEK 1 – 6.8 billion. I really wonder: how does this help to meet the climate objectives in the field of transport?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-827	Madam President, I would like As I said, we have EUR 2 billion for electrification and a number of other investments, for example on longer trains. I think that Teres Lindberg's exemplification is quite clear when it comes to an inefficient climate policy, which is also rather ill-considered. It's about the night trains out in Europe. It has turned out that it is not possible to do this because the countries in Europe are not interested in us being able to run these trains on their rails, and then it is not possible to do so. I suspect that from the outset it is an environmental-partisan proposal and something on which elections were held. It is a very poorly substantiated proposal that has been put forward when, in the end, it does not prove possible. Making it easier to book train tickets out to Europe and ensuring that you work at EU level to make it easier for people to take the train instead of requiring a doctoral thesis to go out and ride trains in Europe would have more effect than trying to negotiate with governments or state rail companies in other countries that do not want to. I don't know how much time and money to spend before you give up on this.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-829	Madam President, I would like When Maria Stockhaus talked about the TV series The Crown, I felt it was time to take a line. I'll follow it. It's a moving series; I really agree. I am in the fourth season and find especially the portrayal of right-wing politician Margaret Thatcher interesting. She opposed the abolition of apartheid, campaigned actively against trade unions and such things. Speaking of Britain and the railways, there are quite a few railway scenes in The Crown. They travel a lot by train. Britain was earlier than we were in liberalising its railways and also the maintenance of the railways. It was in 1993, as far as I remember. It didn't go well at all. There were a lot of big problems with private companies that didn't handle the assignments they were supposed to run. There were also a number of major fatal accidents in the early 2000s. In 2002, the responsibility for maintenance was renationalised, and I believe that everyone in the UK agrees that it is much more integrated and coherent now that the state is responsible for it. Then you sometimes spend on private operators what you cannot do on your own. I think we can learn from that. Maria Stockhaus talked about airports, both Arlanda and Bromma. It is important to be able to get to airports in an easy way. But here in Stockholm we have Arlanda Express, which is completely cut off from public transport. We have the world's highest fares to travel to an airport. Here I fully agree with the Moderates in the Stockholm region, who want the state to take over responsibility for driving the trains to and from Arlanda and not that it should be a private venture capital company that does. Do the Moderates in the Swedish Parliament agree with this?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-835	Madam President, I would like The railway scenes in The Crown are fantastic – to travel by train so looks absolutely wonderful. As far as Arlanda Express is concerned, our draft budget contains a squeeze to renegotiate, because we do not think that these fares are reasonable. We can also see that fewer people travel collectively to Arlanda than to Kastrup and Gardermoen, for example. Absolutely, it is extremely important that public transport works and is connected in a whole. At present, Arlandabanan stands out. It is a bit apart, and it does not benefit public transport to the airport. We have this in our motion that we want to review.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-837	Madam President, I would like I'm glad to hear that. Then perhaps the Moderates and the Left Party will see to it that the government does something. Unfortunately, last summer the government allowed the private operation of Arlanda Express to extend until 2040, something that for me is completely incomprehensible. There is another airport here in Stockholm. It's called Bromma Airport, and as we heard, the Moderates are struggling with beaks and claws to keep flying to and from Bromma. This despite the fact that very few do it now and even though Swedavia says they can't operate that airport further, because they don't think enough will fly to and from Bromma. Arlanda can easily take over all that traffic, and then we have the opportunity to build a whole new neighborhood with 30 000 new homes and lots of workplaces and other things in Bromma where the airport is today. Can't the Moderates think of re-evaluate their cramped grip on Bromma airport and that instead we place all the flights to Arlanda?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-841	Madam President, I would like Now Stockholm City and Swedavia have an agreement until 2038. I think it is irresponsible for the government to tell Swedavia to produce this report now. This creates an even more difficult situation when it comes to uncertainty for aviation. It is not as simple as Jens Holm gives the appearance of moving over. There are rules about castle times and other things that Swedavia herself says make it impossible to start up corresponding to the routes that normally fly to Bromma at Arlanda. The rules are being violated, and we cannot do that because they are international agreements. I think it is important that the domestic flight to and from Stockholm works. At present, it is not safe to make changes and expand Arlanda. Swedavia also says that yes, during the pandemic there is physical space even if there are no castles. But the day the flight gets back on, which everyone expects it to, then there's no room. That's why Arlanda needs to be expanded.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-845	Madam President, I would like As the budgetary options of the Swedish Democrats are above the agreed framework, we choose to abstain and instead present a separate opinion. We are in an extraordinary time that we wish had never arisen. The pandemic has struck most people indiscriminately and not least against the infrastructure. Unfortunately, I will not be able to talk about our entire budget in Category 22, but it is available in full on Parliament's website. Madam President, I would like Maritime transport has major problems, not least cruise ships that have not been able to carry passengers. Air traffic has fallen sharply, and several companies are facing bankruptcy. The railway has also been severely affected and reduced in revenue as travel has decreased and the number of passengers on board trains has to be reduced. Public transport is no exception – it runs with large deficits. The budget drawn up by the Swedish Democrats is particularly large. We invest 18 billion more than the government in Category 22 Communications. Much of the extra money we spend is to alleviate the effects of the pandemic. We believe that the common infrastructure has enormous value and is a resource that must be managed in the long term and continuously, maintained and developed. We cannot afford to lose infrastructure. We believe that socially sound efforts must be made where they are most useful while taking into account aspects such as rural areas, municipalities, family life and entrepreneurship. The IT infrastructure has a major impact on our future infrastructure. Above all, the need for robust broadband has increased during the pandemic, as people were invited to work from home. In addition, many at risk are forced to live their social life digitally. Unfortunately, we can see that the roll-out of broadband has not taken place at the rate that is desirable and that rural areas are the most deprived. More funding is needed to accelerate and facilitate the roll-out of broadband in rural areas. We are therefore pushing for another 1 billion to speed up broadband roll-out. Madam President, I would like The railway needs to be maintained and expanded. We are investing 500 million extra in increased maintenance in order to reduce the existing maintenance debt. In addition to this, we are investing an additional 2 billion to be used to bring forward the design and construction of new railways. There is great benefit in removing bottlenecks and optimising routes, increasing the speed of the railway to 250 kilometres per hour where it is economically justifiable and enabling longer and heavier freight trains. The Swedish Democrats also want to help train companies in these difficult times by replacing them for the paid rail charges for 2020 due to the pandemic. It is an investment of nearly SEK 2 billion. Madam President, I would like In order to reduce the maintenance debt for the state road network, we have set aside 500 million. In addition, we propose an additional 2 billion to go to the expansion and new construction of the state road network. In these times the municipalities are also severely affected financially, and in order to help the municipalities, we target a support of 1 billion to renovate the municipal road network. We also propose 250 million for a new business pool – support for new road connections to start-ups such as industries and warehouses or, for example, the new land-based salmon company in Tanum. In order to reduce traffic emissions, several electric roads projects are under way. This development area is in a phase where there is a need to carry out more tests on ordinary roads, and therefore we allocate 150 million to more establishments and test distances. Madam President, I would like We also believe that there should be fair conditions on our roads. To achieve this, we believe that cabotage transport should be registered on arrival at our border and advocate the introduction of an electronic surveillance system to improve police control facilities and thus prevent illegal cabotage operations. We also believe that there is a need to build more control points across Sweden, aimed primarily at heavy traffic, to facilitate police work and improve road safety. Madam President, I would like I talked earlier about the plane, which has been hit hard. We can also note that regional airports have been hit hard under the coronapandemy. In order to prevent the closure of regional airports, we believe that aid is needed for all regional airports. That is where we allocate 125 million in addition to the government's budget. Then, Madam President, we go to the Swedish Maritime Administration. The Swedish Maritime Administration has a tough financial situation, and in order for shipping not to be burdened with fee increases, we will allocate 1 billion in 2021. Of these funds, 500 million will be used to support the Swedish Maritime Administration to reduce fairway fees and introduce an environmental fairway fee. In addition, 250 million will go to finance ice mining, which also provides relief for other shipping in the form of reduced fairway charges. In order to maximise the capacity of shipping, fairways and ports must be sufficiently deep. We contribute 150 million to strengthen the dredging at Malmporten in Luleå so that we do not paralyze the mining industry up in Norrland. Because of the pandemic, fewer people have gone collectively. Public transport reduced the number of departures, but as congestion increased and the government expressed that public transport should have the same intensity as before, it returned to a high intensity, which has resulted in large deficits. The Transport Committee has been informed that public transport is backing up by around 1 billion a month throughout Sweden. The Swedish Democrats take this seriously and want to avoid mass redundancies in public transport. We are therefore providing 6 billion in excess of the government's budget.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-866	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I am a little confused when I read the draft budget of the Swedish Democrats, not least because November was the warmest that has ever been measured. Like many others in our society, I am quite concerned about the climate challenges we face, not least because I am a parent. I still dream of being able to leave a better society to my children and grandchildren. I think there are many of us who do. However, when you read your draft budget, you can see that there is almost nothing there to meet the climate challenges. So I simply wonder: how do you see Swedish democrats on the climate in the area of transport? Is that a completely unimportant question for you? Are you not concerned about global warming – that last month was the warmest ever? You haven't measured anyone warmer. Are you not concerned about this?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-868	Madam President, I would like Of course you can be worried about the climate. We also know that there are changes in the climate, and we have investments in the climate. On the other hand, we may not have the same efforts as the Social Democrats; we have different ways of achieving the goal. For example, we invest in electric roads. And we can look at the maintenance of the railroad. There we invest money for more goods to go and more people to be able to transport themselves. Consider an example. Down in Ramlösa and Lund today there is almost no traffic at all on the West Coast Line, because maintenance is so terribly neglected. Instead, this traffic goes by bus. Is it a good environmental measure not to invest in the maintenance of the railways and thus to force those who want to travel on the railways to ride buses instead? So we have a little different ways of achieving the objectives. We want robustness, but we also want a good climate. I also have children, and I also want grandchildren in a future. Of course we should have a good environment for our children and grandchildren. But we have different ways of achieving the same goal.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-872	Madam President, I would like In reality, you want to cut almost every climate effort in this budget. You want to completely phase out the bonus – the Malus system, you want to remove the Climate Count and so on. Perhaps your biggest investment is on international climate investment, but at the same time you want to cut by 16 billion on aid. Much of our aid today goes to precisely climate investment. So your budget is really counterproductive. I am incredibly concerned that the voters in Sweden are not in control of how you Swedish democrats view the climate issue – that it really is a non-issue. It is completely irrelevant to compare with the rearmament of a runway that makes people have to take the bus instead. It's about getting better eventually. We need to have sharp, common goals and point out a direction for Sweden. In fact, we do, and it would be desirable for the Swedish Democrats to be able to meet the climate target of becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-876	Madam President, I would like We were told here that things have to get worse before things get better when it comes to the railway Ramlösa – Lund. I can inform Mr Lindberg that the railway between Ramlösa and Lund is not more than 20 years old. It's supposed to last for 40 years. By cutting back on maintenance on our railways, taxes are being thrown right into the lake, funds that could have been used for so much else. To maintain or replace the tracks, we are talking about investments of somewhere between SEK 100 million and SEK 150 million. We have people as commuters who receive an additional time of one or a half hours to get to work. It's not okay!
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-878	Madam President, I would like It is fascinating to follow the budget debate in the area of the Transport Committee. It's about things that are certainly very important but that happen in the immediate vicinity of the Parliament House and the surrounding area. After all, this policy area is about how we keep the whole country rolling. It is about people no matter where they live in the country and about goods that need to be transported inside and outside the country and how it should be done. That is why there are a great many billions in the country's budget. Madam President, I would like The examples of numbers are also fascinating – 200, 300, 500 and so on – but what to watch is whether it's millions or billions that it's all about. There's a huge difference. I learned about the difference in a very educational way from a traffic service official on one occasion. The official was upset when someone said: It is only one billion more! Then the scarred official tightened his eyes and said: Do you know what the difference is between a million and a billion, boy? I thought you'd know that. He gave a very good picture that I think we should remember the next time we write speeches: If I give you a million crowns in newly printed thousands it is a small piece of paper of 1.4 kilos, but if you want to squeeze me out a billion crowns in newly printed thousands it is 1.4 tons. We shall remember this and have a little more respect for the figures. When we write our speeches, we should also bear in mind that there is a significant difference in quantity when allocating 200 or 300 million to a national rail system or 2 or 3 billion. There's a reason for that. Why do we have a transport infrastructure, and why are we spending almost 80 000 million SEK on it? Well, it's for the logistics circulation of people and goods throughout the country to work well. The Center Party is talking about five modes of transport. The four classics are road, rail, shipping and aviation, and the fifth – the modern, which we have become very aware since the pandemic struck – is IT. All of these five work together. None of them are uglier or finer or worse, but they presuppose each other's existence. All five have a strong climate impact. The Center Party really supports the 70% target in 2030, i.e. that we should then have reduced the climate impact by 70% compared to what it was in 2010. It's a really tough challenge. It is fully in line with the Paris Agreement, but it is also possible. It is possible and must be compatible with the continued high mobility of people and goods throughout our country, a large and sparsely populated country on the fringes of Europe. That is what transport policy is all about. When we held the corresponding debate in this House last December, I think none of us would have heard of covid-19. Around the 13th weekend, we heard about it. Some said corona, others said covid. We didn't really know what it was. Something was gone in China. But one piece into the spring edge it started to appear in Gothenburg. Container traffic from China and the flow of goods into Scandinavia stopped because the factories in China did not deliver. In a completely radical way, the pandemic has changed the conditions for individuals in our country and on the entire planet, for countries and for how we behave against each other. Air travel is probably the most drastically affected type of traffic because it is largely on the slopes. Public transport has been mentioned in the discussions here. It has had enormous challenges, both because passengers have been missing and in order to offer a range of journeys in the most reliable way possible. It for the country, for us as individuals and for the industry so extremely important freight traffic has actually worked very well. Had the freight flows not worked – with cargo coming to this country by air, shipping, trains and highway – there would have been reason to hoard both toilet paper and other stuff, which was done in a frenzy at the start of the pandemic. Later we came to realize that it was not necessary, because the medicine, the food, the milk and whatever it is that we need is on the shelves, and the deliveries work. It, the fifth mode of transport, has become the lifeline of home-loved schoolchildren, home-loved officials and teleworkers in order to carry out a job, study and communicate. This has also demonstrated in a very dramatic way where the white spots in our country are, where broadband has not yet been extended. For this reason and with strong push by the Center Party, which is also behind this budget as a whole, there is also a large increase in funding to expand broadband in Sweden in the coming years. The effects of the pandemic have been very dramatic. We must not end up in a situation where people are sorted into A- or B-teams depending on whether they are connected and able to work from home. This budget also includes increased money for road and rail. In particular, there are texts which I personally and the Center Party have been involved in bringing in and which steer the money towards the fine-meshed road and rail network. There's never enough money. On that day, the sun will not rise when someone stands in this pulpit and says that it is enough money for transport infrastructure, that is enough now! We'll never see it. However, in the budget we are now discussing it is more money than last year, and this year, because of the pandemic, more money has been pumped in than any of us could imagine when we were standing in this pulpit a year ago. There was money, because we are a country that has money in the bank that we can invest. That's good. Madam President, I would like My speech was printed in such a way that I could not read it when it came from the printer. That is why I have probably made my best speech ever, because I was not bound by a script. I support the committee's proposal. I think the government's draft budget is really good, and the Center Party supports it. The Center Party has a specific opinion that the experience gained from the pandemic should be taken more into account in the forthcoming budgetary work. It continues to drive, because I am convinced, friends, that we have learned to do things in a way that we had no idea when we stood here a year ago presenting the budget for 2020.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-894	Madam President, I would like My question to Anders Åkesson concerns aviation. After all, I spoke warmly for the flight in my speech and I think that the flight is important. We see that the flight is changing. The Center Party has chosen to cooperate with a government that I would call anti-aircraft. It is clear with regard to the emergency measures, in particular the public service obligations, which have now been extended. It does not apply to flights to southern Sweden. That is to say, Anders Åkesson's home country no longer has a flight, because it has chosen not to procure flights south of Dalälven except to and from Gotland. As regards aid to regional airports, the government has also chosen not to provide aid to all airports, but to select only some of them. My picture is that there is a majority in this House who think that aviation is important. It would be desirable for that majority to pull itself together and create good conditions for aviation in the crisis and in the future. The question is whether the Center Party is prepared to take part in such a discussion.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-897	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for a very good question! I skipped the flight because it was a completely unreadable part of my script. I am therefore pleased with the question. I and the Center Party strongly support the ambition expressed by Maria Stockhaus. Air travel is a necessary part of the bloodstream in terms of transport in our country and its contact with the outside world. It is also an absolute prerequisite for people in large parts of the country to be able to do a day's work elsewhere, be able to get in touch with education and work or make social trips. But aviation is by no means the exception of climate change. There the aeronautics industry is showing its forerunners, forced by a market that is demanding it. The Center Party, as well as the Moderates, are calling for the government to come forward with the air strategy announced in 2017 that has not yet been delivered. Only this week, I asked the Minister for Infrastructure a specific question about it. The Centre Party has contributed to the fact that, after all, it spent SEK 100 million on regional airports as part of a Corona subsidy.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-902	Madam President, I would like Now my question was about the public service obligations. Southern Sweden, as I said, is completely left out. There is no procured air traffic at all. Some of the regional airports are exempted from the Corona aid which has been granted to regional airports. We Moderates want to see all those airports supported. In addition, we are prepared to review whether not all airports in Sweden should be emergency airports, so that the socially important aircraft can land and start all over Sweden. This applies not least to ambulance and fire planes. However, the question was precisely about the public service obligations south of Dalälven and that all regional airports should be supported, not just parts of that infrastructure.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-905	Madam President, I would like In my corresponding speech last year, I raised the question that a profit-sharing model should be introduced between State-owned Swedavia and regionally organised airports in order to maintain capacity across the country. At that time and until covid, Swedavia was a winning machine. There was reason to find a way not only to fatten the centrally located airports in the country. There was reason to find a way to distribute the proceeds in order to maintain the ability. Then came Mr Covid, Madam President. At that time, 100 million people were quickly allocated to maintain the functionality of regional airports, linked to preparedness and people's need for mobility. There are many reasons, Madam President, for calling again for a national aviation strategy and a distribution system, so that we maintain a capacity.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-909	Madam President, I would like Anders Åkesson spoke warmly for sustainable freight transport. There was sweet music in my ears, and I would like to debate that a little more with Åkesson. We really need to move freight transport from road to more sustainable modes of transport, such as rail and shipping. However, despite efforts by the government in the form of a good strategy and a freight transport council, we can see that last year rail lost 3% in freight transport. I have also been told that, in the last year, shipping has lost a lot in terms of transport. At the same time, we see that road transport has continued to increase, except now with the coronan, which is a parenthesis. We discussed previous track charges here. Then I would like to ask Anders Åkesson a question: How much has rail charges for freight traffic been raised in Sweden since 2009? We can also take passenger traffic, because I know that Anders Åkesson is very committed. About how much has the government increased these fees since 2009? I note that several countries in Europe have now chosen to reduce their rail charges due to the Corona epidemic. France, Germany and Austria are some examples. There is now a regulation at EU level that allows countries to do so.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-915	Madam President, I would like Yes, the Center Party strongly supports the ambition of sustainable and sustainable freight transport. For this reason, the Center Party is actively pushing for longer, heavier and more transport efficient vehicles. It's about rail, road and shipping. Not least, the meeting of these three main freight players must be much more effective. Yes, rail charges have been significantly increased since 2009. At that time, the Center Party sat at the Ministry of Infrastructure and made sure to get track charges up from being at the absolute bottom level in Europe to approaching a middle level, but it is still under way. That money, Madam President and Jens Holm, goes unabridged to railway maintenance, and it amounts to SEK 1 billion a year. At the same time, a system was introduced so that those who destroy the rail system will have to pay. It could be an operator who doesn't keep track of his stuff or who runs with flat wheels or with pantographs that tear down overhead contact lines. This is market economy, Jens Holm. Take care of the stuff! You get to use the stuff, and you get incentives to keep your stuff in order so they don't tear the system down. The money you pay to use the facility goes back to the facility, so you can use it. That's how a market works. We are far more liberal in the market in Sweden than we are in the rest of Europe. That is why, compared to the rest of Europe, we have more freight on our railways. Because they're working. We don't have enough freight but more. I think it is a good policy. I'm behind it. What we need is: more market, more resources, more efficiency and longer and heavier transport.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-921	Madam President, I would like Then Anders Åkesson will get the answer to the question I asked. Since 2009, rail charges for freight transport have increased by 282 %, i.e. almost 300 %. For passenger trains, they have increased by about 200 per cent. I may have missed something essential in the policy of the Center Party, but I thought that the Center Party wanted to protect and promote sustainable rail freight. It is then a sound market economy principle that what pollutes should pay more and that you can reward what is sustainable. But the government's policy, backed up by the Center Party, is the opposite. For truck transport we have no charge per kilometre, but we have constantly increased rail charges for the sustainable railways. I don't make it hang together, Anders Åkesson. Can you make it stick together?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-924	Madam President, I would like For road traffic, Jens Holm, a tax exchange was carried out in the early 90s. Tax collection was moved from road kilometres to fuel. There is reason to consider whether it is sustainable for the future, because now we are switching to fuels we want to see. There may have to be another tax shift. Nothing is free, Madam President and Jens Holm. There's talk of 300 percent. Using percentages is a bit like dribble with millions and billions. It sounds very much, but it is still far below the EU average. And this increase in rail charges, Jens Holm, means that year after year it is fed in fresh money that keeps the Swedish rail system running. That money wouldn't have existed otherwise. Nothing's free, Jens Holm. It costs almost 80 billion SEK a year to keep the transport infrastructure that we operate going. That those who use the system pay for it is reasonable. Then it should never be too expensive, but it is not.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-927	Madam President, I would like For us as Christian Democrats, it is important that it is possible to live and work throughout Sweden. This is a major challenge given that Sweden is one of Europe's largest countries. By combining different modes of transport, we can create the conditions needed for everyone to have the opportunity to develop their dreams for the future in a good way. Road, cycle path, rail, shipping and air transport are different modes of traffic that complement each other. From our point of view, there is no reason to create a conflict of interest between the different modes of transport. On the contrary, we shall take advantage of the strengths of each mode of transport. Madam President, I would like Sweden is not just a large country. We also have very different conditions. In our larger cities we need more efficient public transport, more cycle paths and better conditions for electrification. We also need to combine airports and ports with roads and railways so that the city's transport works over the day. In rural areas, we need new roads, railways and local airports that make rural populations well placed to develop their businesses, come to work and take children to leisure activities. We also need to work towards flexible speed limits so that we do not impair all those who depend on the car to cope with their everyday lives. To meet the expectations of citizens and business on our infrastructure, we must continue to invest in roads and railways. That is why, among other things, our budget increases the funding for railway maintenance, cycle paths and individual roads. We also want it to be possible to operate our roads and railways with longer and heavier trucks and longer and heavier trains. By accepting larger vehicles, we increase the capacity of the transport system while reducing the cost to the business community and reducing the impact on the environment. Everyone benefits from these changes. Madam President, I would like Scandinavia is in practice an island located on the outskirts of the large European population centres. This means that we have to plan our infrastructure so that we make it easier for our citizens and our businesses. China is building a new silk road to Europe, and the EU is working to build more efficient transport corridors. If we are to compete with the world around us, we must expand the Nordic triangle Stockholm – Gothenburg – Copenhagen and also down to Hamburg. We also need to improve the conditions for transporting goods from northern Sweden to Norvik and the Port of Gothenburg, for example. We need to have a functioning network of local airports that creates a fast connection to Stockholm and above all to Arlanda, which must be strengthened and developed if it is to become a future strategic hub. Maritime transport accounts for 90 per cent of all freight traffic entering and leaving Sweden. Our ports also serve Norwegian companies, which means that our shipping and ports create conditions for the business community throughout the Scandinavian Peninsula. In order for shipping to be better able to compete with the rest of the world, we want to restore the net model of shipping, counteract the removal of the remote zone discount and increase environmental discounts within the port charge. We also believe that we need to speed up the process of creating new icebreakers that allow for a functioning shipping throughout the year. Unfortunately, it does not feel as if the government is taking this holistic approach. Instead of reaping the benefits of the different modes of transport, the Green Party is blocking efforts in road and air transport. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Parliament has supported the goal of reducing CO2 emissions by 70 per cent by 2030. This is a very ambitious objective. Our neighbours have the goal of reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 50%. The EU is talking about 55% by 2030. If we are to succeed in our goal, we must take several steps. New cycle routes combined with better public transport will reduce emissions in our cities, but it will not be these solutions that reduce emissions in our long-distance or rural transport. More biofuels, hydrogen and ethanol will help us reduce emissions from the transport sector. But these measures are unlikely to be enough. Already a few years ago, we raised the need for large-scale electrification if we are to manage to meet climate targets. It is therefore good that the government is working on these issues, but unfortunately the left hand does not seem to know what the right hand is doing. At the same time as we are working for more vehicles to be electrified, the government is phasing out nuclear power, which will be absolutely necessary if we are to be able to electrify more vehicles and large parts of the industry. New smelters and data centers will compete for electricity. We therefore need more capacity and better transmission capacity if we are to be able to electrify the transport sector. Madam President, I would like In addition to the physical infrastructure, we need to work more to develop the digital communications of the future. Broadband and 5G need to be expanded so that it has a high coverage in most of the country. All citizens and entrepreneurs must have access to the modern digital solutions of the future. When more vehicles become self-driving and when more and more service and care will be delivered digitally, the technology must be expanded throughout the country, otherwise we will create a digital segregation where some will have the opportunity to exploit the benefits of the new technology while others are slipping behind and at worst forced to close down their businesses or move the service to where it is delivered. We also need to work on creating a functioning postal service throughout the country. Madam President, I would like In addition to investments in new infrastructure and technologies, we will need to review fuel and vehicle taxes. As more and more vehicles go on alternative fuels, this will lead to lower taxation while maintaining infrastructure costs. Today's taxation is unfair and puts rural populations at a disadvantage. We have therefore pointed out the need for a new vehicle and fuel taxation that takes into account vehicle type, distance, time of day and where the vehicle is driven. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats' budgetary options should be seen as a whole. That is why I choose to abstain and instead present a specific opinion on the Christian Democrats' policy in Category 22.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-949	Madam President, I would like We are in a strange time. It's a different year. When we debated Category 22 in committee a year ago, we could probably not even imagine in our wildest imagination the situation we are now in. The Pandemine affects our country on all sides. It affects our way of life and our way of being. It affects the way we consume, and it affects the way we move. This affects not least our communications and transport. Madam President, I would like We are now dealing with the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, TU1 and Category 22. First of all, I would like to support the proposal made by the Committee on Transport and Tourism in the report. For the expenditure area, we are talking about just over 1.4 billion a week in order to achieve the two overall policy objectives that we have in the area of expenditure. In addition, there are a total of nearly 700 billion in national planes. Infrastructure is a capital-heavy area but also important for our society to function both in the city and in the countryside, from north to south and from east to west. Transport policy is about ensuring socio-economic efficiency and sustainable transport supply. In the area of digitalisation, which is the second area and the other policy objectives we have, it is about Sweden being the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation. Madam President, I would like The committee usually has regular discussions on how to increase the share of people travelling collectively. But since last spring, our discussions have been more about how we can help reduce people's travel, limit congestion and thus reduce the spread of infection. However, public transport must also work in times of crisis. Healthcare professionals must be able to get to work without exposing themselves to the risk of infection. In the past year, we have therefore increased public transport and regional public transport authorities by 3 billion. Next year's budget allocates an additional EUR 2 billion to this end. Shipping is another area that has had an incredibly tough time. It is mainly passenger ferry traffic that has been affected. In order to facilitate maritime transport, the permits have been extended for seamen so that they do not have to undergo new training courses, and general support has been given to many different activities in our country, such as short-term lay-off. Perhaps the most important thing for shipping has been the credit guarantee framework of the Export Credit Board. They have contributed to the continued functioning of the shipping and export industry. The maintenance of traffic and the functioning of transport are absolutely essential in our society. People, businesses, organisations and the economy are highly dependent on the transport system. The pandemic may make us realise this in a more concrete way. It is simply crucial for a society, that is to say, for us to achieve important policy objectives, such as employment, food supply, dealing with the spread of infection, obtaining vaccines and, not least, meeting climate targets. A fundamental view of us Social Democrats is that the traffic law complements each other. They are all needed in a modern, well-organised and functioning society. It's supposed to work all over the country. Transport policy is intended to smooth out gaps and, at the same time, the transport system needs to be more sustainable. Charging infrastructure for electric cars is becoming increasingly important, and road safety will always be central to us. No one should have to die in traffic. Not least, the transport sector must be characterised by order and order. Madam President, I would like Today, we can be grateful for forward-looking politicians ahead of us. Because they have preceded and contributed to a well-developed broadband and mobile network infrastructure, many can work from home. Of course not all occupational groups can do so, but it is so that we actually see a discharge in passenger transport. But it is not good enough for a quick connection not to be shared by everyone. A further EUR 1.4 billion is therefore being allocated to strengthen the national broadband roll-out support system. In the budget proposal submitted by the government, recovery of the acute crisis has also been a priority. Therefore, well-balanced investments that bring prosperity, green transition and jobs across the country will come. Broadband money is an example of investment that is not only much needed, but can also have a rapid impact on employment. Other important investments for economic recovery in our area are 500 million for railway maintenance and another 500 million for road maintenance, focusing on the fine-mesh road network in rural areas. Another group hit hard by the pandemic is the young people. They are always hard hit by economic slumps. In order to strengthen their ability to enter the labour market, we are also extending the possibility of driving licences for young people between the ages of 18 and 20. Madam President, I would like The development of the transport system is central to achieving Sweden's climate goals. The Parliament has set itself the goal that Sweden should be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. By 2045 transport will be completely fossil-free, and by 2030 emissions will have decreased by 70 percent. The budget we are now discussing contains a series of measures to reduce emissions from transport. Not everyone is specifically within our scope of funding, but they are entirely dependent on the budget for us to meet the goals of fossil-free transport in the future. This is, among other things, about the issue of fuel. There is no one-way solution here, but it must be a broad palette of measures. Therefore, we are now changing the bonus system – malus through simplification and reinforcement. We have seen how bonus – the Malus system increases incentives to buy zero-emission cars and thus helps to gradually replace the vehicle fleet. The maximum bonus amount will therefore be increased from SEK 60 000 to SEK 70 000 when purchasing a new car. In order for the existing vehicle fleet to contribute, fuel changes are reinforced under the reduction obligation. There will also be a reduction obligation for aviation. Today, almost 85% of Swedish demand for biofuels is imported. It's untenable in the long run. There, we also go forward with increased support for the production of biofuels, while at the same time giving the Swedish Energy Agency increased funding to increase its analytical capacity. Madam President, I would like We need to continue to shift freight transport from road to maritime and rail transport. This is why the budget also provides an annual allocation of 400 million up to 2025 to contribute to an environmentally friendly transport system. The national maritime coordinator has also been given a strengthened mandate for this purpose, involving ports. In addition, the budget provides for a capital injection into the State Green Cargo, which is the single largest rail freight operator. It is an important investment for Green Cargo to ensure long-term stability and profitability. Cycling also needs to be increased. It contributes to the climate and to strengthening public health. Within the framework of the urban environment agreements, there will be a strengthening of the budget of the State's bicycle infrastructure and the possibility for municipalities to invest in bicycles. In addition, additional resources for interaction with civil society to promote increased cycling. We need to speed up the transition of the transport sector to electric power in order to meet the climate targets. It is therefore gratifying that the government announced in last year's budget, i.e. for the current year, the appointment of an electrification commission. It is now in place and will work to look at how heavy trucks should be electrified either with batteries or with hydrogen drive. In this connection, I would also like to mention the 200 km electrified roads announced within ten years and 300 km of electric road by 2035. These are important signals for the transport sector. Trucks should in future be able to be charged along the road instead of being driven on diesel. Scope anxiety is a concept among electric car drivers today. It is also an obstacle that prevents many from choosing an electric car. That is why we must continue to develop charging infrastructure, and climate change has been crucial here. If we compare November 2019 with November 2020, i.e. this year, the number of charging points has increased from over 9,000 to over 11,000 – this despite the coronapndemine, which has very likely slowed down the expansion rate. The expansion of fast chargers must also be stepped up. Here, Trafikverket has been given a special task to investigate how this should be done. Madam President, I would like While I am on electrification, let me mention a few words about aviation. For many years we have seen a trend with fewer flights from an environmental perspective among the population. It is in many ways positive that people make conscious climate choices. But during the year we have gone from a declining trend to a near-air death. The effect is, of course, a consequence of the pandemic, and it is worrying and will need to be dealt with in different ways in the future. At the same time, I believe in an exciting future for aviation. Not least electrification opens up new patterns with fossil-free and less electrified planes. Perhaps we will transport ourselves quite differently in the future – on crosses and across. Digitalisation will affect our travel. It is not that we will stop travelling, but I think that what we have experienced since last spring will help us not to travel as often. The vaccination program is about to roll out, and we are going to get rid of the pandemic in due course. Then we will increasingly focus on recovery. We will need to focus on a in many ways bleeding transport industry, not least the challenge of restoring people's confidence to travel together. Even in the future it is smart to travel together.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-978	Madam President, I would like I would like to sum up the government's infrastructure policy by saying that aircraft and cars are bad and that trains are good. Transport teams are being pitted against each other, and the government is prepared to spend hundreds of billions on high-speed trains despite the fact that it is not economically viable. We Moderates think this is a huge waste of money. The question is when the high-speed train comes – if it ever gets ready, because there is no funding ready. Are they perhaps coming in 2045, at best? But in 2045, if not yet before, all modes of transport will be fossil-free. I therefore wonder how Teres Lindberg can justify spending hundreds of billions on high-speed trains when all the experts say that it is not economically viable.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-980	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the questions, Maria Stockhaus. These are relevant and important issues. I think – or I know – that we have been forced to make quite a lot of efforts and priorities by rail in both the last parliamentary term and this, which is our second parliamentary term. I will not blame the Reinfeldt government alone, which for eight years actually had very little maintenance in the railways, but this even began earlier. There are therefore more people who bear the blame for this, but railway maintenance has been neglected for many years. I don't know if Maria Stockhaus remembers that the big discussion in 2014 was about trains not leaving on time. They didn't go in time because we hadn't run the rails. We have not managed train maintenance for many years, so this has been a necessary priority. Because people want to ride trains. It is a good way to transport, and it is crowded on the roads as it is today. So we need both road and rail. I certainly do not want to set different modes of transport against each other, although the honourable Member, Maria Stockhaus, suggests that we Social Democrats do. We certainly do not. We think they are important and complementary. As far as high-speed trains are concerned, they are not included in this year's budget. We will well come back to them when we will discuss the future infrastructure plan in the coming years and whether we will be able to finance high-speed trains and how it will be done. However, we are not yet there, but we will simply have to come back to that.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-984	Madam President, I would like Beautiful words about all modes of transport weigh very easily when you look at action and how the government acts when it comes to crisis measures, handling Bromma and the purchased aircraft. Teres Lindberg talks hotly so that we can fly across and across – yes, I really hope we can, but with the policy of the government, the question is whether there will be any airports left to fly across to. I would rather see some of the billions that are planned to be spent on high-speed trains being used to ensure that the aviation infrastructure remains, too, instead of spending unilaterally on a large project that risks putting a wet blanket over many other important investments in infrastructure.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-986	Madam President, I would like Member Maria Stockhaus insinuates things that are not right. In this budget alone, we spend an extra 1⁄2 billion on road maintenance. We are spending 1⁄2 billion extra on railway maintenance, we have added 100 million extra over the year to non-governmental airports and so on. So it is not just a traffic type that is important, but we have really tried to give priority to all modes of transport. I think it's important. This is important for Sweden, and aviation is also important there. Then we can have different ways of looking at how to deal with the challenges of the Stockholm region, but I don't think we should take that discussion here and now.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-988	Madam President, I would like In fact, I was going to go in and deal with maritime issues. As a port worker, I am extremely interested in the fact that shipping also works. Jens Holm spoke earlier about his view that the Swedish Maritime Administration should not be a business but a funded work, and we Swedish democrats fully share Jens Holm's view. We also believe that it should be a funded work. After all, the Transport Committee is behind an announcement to the Government to review the Swedish Maritime Administration's funding, as we are very concerned to see increased costs for shipping. The government should be as concerned as we are that the costs are increasing. In fact, the Freight Transport Council has not managed to transfer road transport to either rail or maritime transport. For example, I can report to Teres Lindberg that a transport from Norvik harbour to Köping harbour round-trip costs shipping close to SEK 100 000. It's huge money to transport freight this short distance. Having said that, Madam President, I wonder whether Teres Lindberg would like to see us redeploy the Maritime Administration from business to budget-financed work.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-992	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Jimmy Ståhl! These are, of course, important and urgent issues, not least in view of the financial problems that the Swedish Maritime Administration has had and has had. We are following this issue rather carefully. It's not simply turning a steam engine around, I was saying-- maybe here we should talk more about a ferry. It was the previous government that set this up as a business, and I think we need to hurry slowly and think carefully so that we get a well-functioning organisation for the Maritime Administration and also get the economy in order. However, I am not prepared to give a concrete answer to that question today.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-994	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Teres Lindberg. I understand that it is difficult to answer the question because it will also be carefully investigated. As far as the organisation of the Swedish Maritime Administration is concerned, I do not see any major problem with keeping it, but it is the economy that is the fatal one. However, I have another question. After all, we have a regulatory framework for inland waterways that was established in 2014. It gives us the opportunity to operate inland waterway transport and is a regulatory framework which, of course, could have benefited and moved huge quantities of goods transport from road. But since 2014, when this was established, nothing has happened – no barges have been able to start running to a greater extent. This is because the government has not taken this opportunity but has chosen to maintain the old IMO rules. Does Teres Lindberg and the government intend to start using these possible EU rules?
i-S4SPsMdsBC6ksZcb9cT3tV	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Jimmy Ståhl! The government has delivered a freight transport strategy aimed at shifting more goods from road to rail and shipping, including inland waterway transport. We have set up a national coordinator to help with this work and work actively to ensure that this is transferred. We are following the work very carefully, and if we need to take more measures to get more goods off the roads to end up on the lake or on the railways, we are, of course, prepared to look at it.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-997	Madam President, I would like I've got a little idea. The Swedish Transport Administration recently released a report pointing to the orientations that come in the upcoming bill. With regard to our target of 70% by 2030, which is a milestone, three strategies are identified: electric roads, biofuels and higher pump prices. Mention is even made of 50 kroner. At the same time, it was pointed out that this will not be enough, for example, for biofuels, and it is also said from the forest side. It is, of course, residues that are supposed to be used – otherwise it will be whole trees that can be used, and then we will not get that environmental effect. Then it is perhaps electrification that is the path that has the best potential to contribute to our living up to the goals. We are already seeing that public transport, for example, has solved a great deal, but much of the biofuels that exist have also been used. If trucks and passenger cars are also going in, there is probably no biomass to make biofuels. Nor do I believe that any party will be fully prepared to go forward with SEK 50 – perhaps something, but none of our two parties. We also see a lot of exciting things happening in northern Sweden. We see how new factories are being built and how digital solutions mean that you do not have to move to Stockholm but can run your company anyway. We see how large and heavy old industries turn to electrification in order to make hydrogen. There is a lot happening in northern Sweden, which means that they will use more of the electricity they produce. This means that there will be less electricity to move down to us. We also see that transmission capacity is too weak. We see that it is difficult– you cannot build a charging pole if there is no electricity on the slope. At the same time, we are phasing out nuclear power. How will you resolve this?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1003	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, these are very important issues for our area. I noted that Mr Jacobsson mentioned his scepticism about the lack of electricity, particularly in relation to nuclear power. It is not that we have a shortage of electricity in Sweden, it is the capacity of the networks. It is a little outside the remit of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, but I would like to say that there is very intensive work going on here. As far as biofuels are concerned, I mentioned that it is a huge problem that we import almost 85% of the biofuels we use today. There we must increase domestic production. We must ensure that we have greater production, and there are several possibilities here. It is not only about being able to use the residues from the forest industry, for example, but also about how we take care of the residues from the food industry, how we can take care of the residues from private individuals' residual waste and so on. There are a lot of possibilities. I rather see it as a great opportunity for Swedish industry to develop this. Here we also need to contribute, because it can be a win-win situation for Swedish companies that are prepared to invest and for the climate. As far as petrol prices and charges and taxes are concerned, the Finnish Transport Agency is not the first to come. A year and a half ago, ESO produced a similar report that showed that we will never meet the climate targets set by the Swedish Parliament if the policy does not significantly increase petrol prices. That's why we need to tighten the bow harder. I do not think it is possible to do either as proposed by ESO or what the Finnish Transport Administration is now saying, but we need to find other methods to meet these challenges.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1009	Madam President, I would like Firstly, I would like to thank you very much for your answer. I appreciate that, and I share the honourable Member's view that we need to look at residues if we are to manage to produce more biofuels at all. There's probably a lot to do there. Above all, it will be very strange if we are to have an environmental policy based on improving our emissions by cutting down rainforests in other parts of the world and planting palm trees to produce palm oil and so on. I agree with that part. But when I look at this it is still that one of the great abilities – an area where we could really go forward – is electrification. This is not just about capacity shortages in the sense of management, but also about capacity shortages over the day. We export electricity if you look at the whole year, but we do not export electricity every hour or every minute. We have a lack of capacity. If we are to achieve the goals that we agree to achieve, we need to get more cream in the wires, except that we need to get the wires out.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1011	Madam President, I would like It is important that Magnus Jacobsson raises the question that we need to get more cream in the pipelines, because that is what it is all about. I believe that we can do this without maintaining nuclear power to the present extent and that we can actually continue to phase it out. I think these issues are important. They must go hand in hand, because we need biofuels, hydrogen and electricity to make transport work. At least it's nice that we meet pretty close together. It is quite grateful to work in the Transport Committee, because we are actually quite close on a lot of issues. Thank you very much for the question.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1015	Madam President, I would like I listened to Teres Lindberg when she spoke about sustainable freight transport and the good strategy. The Government has allocated SEK 400 million to provide environmental compensation for sustainable freight transport. That's good, but at the same time the government takes back five times as much money in the form of increased track charges of SEK 2 billion. Now we see that country after country in Europe is reducing their rail charges, which is facilitated by the new regulation adopted at EU level, which allows Member States to reduce or abolish rail charges because freight traffic, like many other sectors, is severely affected by the pandemic.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1018	One is whether the Social Democrats believe that rail rail freight charges should be reduced. My second question concerns the freight transport strategy referred to by Mr Lindberg. It was set up just over two years ago with the aim of shifting goods transport from road to rail and shipping. Lindberg said in response to a previous change of line that, if necessary, it is prepared to take action to ensure that there is a greater transfer. I would like to ask Teres Lindberg: How much has this good strategy delivered? How much goods have been transferred from road to rail and shipping since the introduction of the Goods Strategy?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1021	Madam President, I would like Maybe I should start with the end. As far as freight transport is concerned, for example, we have a national coordinator who works specifically with shipping and who will eventually deliver proposals, views and alternative ways to go in order not only to ensure that things happen here and now but also to see if there are things we need to change in the future. I think we must always be open to that. When a strategy is presented – it is of course the government that has presented this strategy, not the Riksdag, but there is still a clear direction for how you want freight transport to work in the future – it also needs to be followed up. Perhaps there are things and measures there that do not work. We must always work with constant improvements; I see that as self-evident. We have seen banana levies as subject to existing EU regulations. Nor do we have very high rail charges from a European perspective. We are not prepared today to reduce rail charges, but it is clear that we are following developments closely. If there are specific measures that need to be taken as a result of a pandemic, they are addressed and discussed at all times. It is also the case that we will not be able to compensate for everything and for all the consequences of the pandemic that we are now in. We cannot take out loans which will later contribute to excessive economic problems for the country. It is about being responsible and being responsible all the way. It is also a matter for the state to make sure that it contributes with what is most acute and most difficult. But we won't be able to do everything.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1025	Madam President, I would like I think it is a pity that the Social Democrats are talking hotly about better conditions for rail freight transport but are not prepared to go the road that several other European countries are going with reduced rail charges. This is what could produce a direct result in order to create better conditions for rail freight transport. Then my specific question was what the freight transport strategy has delivered for concrete results regarding the transfer of goods transport from road to rail and shipping, but I did not get a response from Teres Lindberg. I asked the Parliamentary Investigation Service to provide an answer to that, and the answer was: Nothing. They could not find any demonstrable results from the establishment of the Good Strategy on Migration. Well, then maybe it's time to find some more sharp action so we can get this transfer, right?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1027	Madam President, I would like I note that Jens Holm asked a rhetorical question, because he already had the answer. Two years is not really a long time when it comes to evaluation, follow-up and the results it has produced. It takes a long time to start up jobs. To take shipping as an example again, the national coordinator is working very actively to get these issues moving. Since last spring we have had obvious problems making things happen. In the case of more goods by rail, it is important that the goods go on time. Delays must be reduced and freight delivered when it is expected to be delivered. It may not always be the actual freight transport on the train that is the problem, but it may also be a booked ship that is due to leave at a certain time.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1031	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating Category 22 Communications. I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision. Madam President, I would like Let me start with the current state of our transport. We could not imagine a year ago, when we stood here debating the budget, that a pandemic would put almost all aircraft on the ground, that the regions would call on people to choose other means of transport and that we would see the borders within the European Union closed. The pandemic has affected many people personally and has also affected many companies, and the transport industry has been most affected. Many additional budgets have been presented during the year to support companies and employees, both general and specific to the transport sector. The goal has been to make it easier for the day-to-day economy and to get a quick start, as we hope we will be able to see during the spring. The pandemic has shown the need for increased digitalisation. A functioning digital connection is a prerequisite for people to be able to communicate with healthcare without physical contact and to be able to work from home. We have therefore increased the budget for broadband deployment to 2 billion over the next three years. Sweden also needs to invest in an infrastructure that, with the help of artificial intelligence, should be able to handle large amounts of data to ensure future growth and service. It is good that Swedish authorities are making a joint effort on the digital systems to meet the needs of the inhabitants. Madam President, I would like In the transport sector, there are a number of targets, not least the 2030 climate target for a 70% reduction in CO2 emissions. In Trafikverket's focus paper for the next planning period, it is pointed out that transfer between different modes can provide many benefits, but from a climate perspective transfer only contributes less than 1 per cent to the goals. The conclusion to be drawn is that in order to achieve the climate target, each mode of transport must focus on finding solutions to reduce its own emissions. Road transport accounts for 93% of our domestic emissions. Therefore, electrification is the most important measure. It is a global challenge if we are to cope with the climate, and here Sweden can lead the way. However, it is slow even here in Sweden. The Liberals therefore highlighted the need for an electrification commission in summer 2019. It is therefore gratifying that it is now finally becoming a reality in 2020. The Commission has had its first meeting these days. The Commission's focus is on speeding up the electrification of heavy goods vehicles but will also discuss both electric aviation and shipping. Liberals look forward to the action plan to be delivered next autumn. The budget includes an effort on electrification pilots to facilitate the implementation of the Action Plan. The transition to rechargeable passenger cars has gone further than in the case of lorries. We see a welcome increase to 30% of the total sales of passenger cars this year. Here it is important that we continue to develop instruments such as bonuses – malus, the benefit value of company cars and the reduction obligation. In this work, it is important to see the important role of companies in the start-up phase of the technology shift. Companies take the biggest cost for the rechargeable cars as they represent the depreciation of the more expensive chargeable cars. This is something we talk about in the discussion. A car loses about 40 percent in value in three years. The cost-covering part of the transition should therefore have a stronger impact on the further development of the instruments, so that we do not lose momentum in the transition. I would also like to mention the budget effort on an expanded charging infrastructure for passenger cars. Otherwise, it risks becoming an inhibitor of electrification. If you can't charge at home or at your destination, car buyers will hesitate to buy rechargeable cars. Madam President, I would like Flying has an important function for our international contacts and to keep Sweden together. However, the flight also needs to be changed. Liberals have pushed for specific investments in the development of electric aircraft, which will play an important role in the global transition in terms of shorter distances. The budget also provides funds for the further development of biofuels for the reduction obligation for aviation and the development of hydrogen power in the long term. This is an offensive effort to secure Sweden's need for fast air transport, while the climate footprint of aviation goes towards net zero in 2045. However, the investment must be complemented by an airport strategy to set the long-term conditions for our airports. It is important here to take account of electric air traffic. Madam President, I would like 90% of international freight goes by sea. The importance of Swedish maritime transport for Sweden cannot be stressed enough. Liberals are therefore closely following the Swedish Maritime Administration's finances, so that future investments do not result in a dramatic increase in pilotage and fairway charges, which may hamper Swedish shipping and activity in Swedish ports. We are also continuing the development and maintenance of the Swedish road and rail network with this budget. And we should facilitate work commuting and the freight transport of businesses. It is good that the Finnish Transport Agency makes use of the reduced use of the railway during the pandemic by bringing forward maintenance on the network so that punctuality can be improved. At the same time, the technology shift in the transport industry places great demands on the long-term supply of skills. In this context, the education sector, industry and the state must work together to meet the skills challenges of the transport system. I would also like to highlight car support for people with disabilities. It is a question of freedom to choose freely how to get to work or when to visit friends. However, the application process needs to be streamlined. Madam President, I would like We Liberals believe that all modes of transport are needed and that emissions, not certain modes of transport, should be reduced. In just a few years we have seen a big step towards our climate goals. The proportion of rechargeable passenger cars is increasing strongly, new electric trucks are starting to enter the market, electric aviation is developing and several trials with new fuels are being tested. We're on the right track. Madam President, I would like We need to pay attention to the positive steps towards energy in order to reach the 2030 target.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1047	Madam President, I would like Over the past year, the coronap pandemic has affected society as a whole. Of course, the transport sector is one of the areas that is particularly affected when people take responsibility by avoiding travel. The government has made efforts that have been able to meet several urgent needs during the pandemic. The focus has been on ensuring socially important transport and safeguarding employment in the transport sector. But the government states in the bill that more efforts will be needed. We in the Green Party are particularly concerned about developments in public transport. In order to reduce the spread of infection, it is extremely important that many Swedes work from home and avoid using buses, trams, metros and trains for jobs and leisure activities. However, those who need to get to work, for example in health care, with public transport must be able to do so safely.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1051	The environmental party's assessment is that additional support will be needed to maintain public transport. It is also very important to plan for public transport to both recover and take market shares from car traffic when the green start-up after Corona comes. It is absolutely essential if we are to achieve our climate targets. The transport sector accounts for about one third of Sweden's domestic CO2 emissions. In order to meet our climate targets and reduce emissions from transport by 70% by 2030 compared to 2010, but above all in order to reach zero emissions by 2045, greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced at a much faster rate. The Government has concluded that improved impact assessments in climate policy are needed if more effective decisions are to be made. Therefore, the Government is now dedicating funds for the Finnish Transport Administration to work on this. Transport efficiency is an important and necessary part of the transition. Traffic work needs to be reduced. In order to succeed in the conversion process, it is not enough simply to replace a petrol or diesel engine with an engine powered by electricity or biofuels. We also need a powerful increase in the efficiency of transport. It is necessary if renewable energy and bio-materials are to be sufficient, not just for the transformation of the transport sector by passenger transport, road and rail freight, air and maritime transport, but for the transformation of society as a whole. The Government's Climate Board had its first meeting, where the change of fuel for aviation was discussed in particular. Today, Parliament is also debating rural policy, and I would like to stress that the car is needed in rural and rural areas. The conditions to set the car are best in cities and in places where public transport is extended and where the distances are long enough to take the bike to work and school. A key part of creating a more transport efficient society is to move transport both for people and goods from road and air to rail and shipping. In the Government's freight transport strategy, the focus on the transfer is clear, and we in the Green Party are particularly pleased that the Government intends to extend and further develop environmental compensation for rail freight transport. This is an investment of SEK 400 million per year. During the pandemic, the number of trains in tracks has been reduced for obvious reasons, which has created opportunities to carry out more maintenance. During the year, the Government has made an additional investment of SEK 720 million in railway maintenance, and in the coming years the investment will continue by increasing maintenance by SEK 500 million per year in addition to what is already in the national plan. This is, of course, a very important strategic effort. The government also invests in increasing the maintenance of roads by half a billion a year. The Green Party believes that Sweden's road infrastructure is largely complete but that it is important to maintain roads, especially in rural and sparsely populated areas. Road maintenance is important for increased road safety. In 2020, the Government has decided on a new transport policy milestone for road safety in order to reduce the number of fatalities dramatically. The supply of skills is a challenge in the railway sector, which is why it is good that the government is investing SEK 10 million in promoting the supply of skills, especially in the railway sector. I am an environmentalist, and that is why I have to say something about cycling. During the year of the Corona 2020, cycling has gained a boost. It is comfortable, smooth and infectious. In addition, it contributes to increased exercise and healthier air. The Government proposes a two-year cycle effort where the urban environment agreements are extended by SEK 300 million and SEK 250 million, respectively, specifically aimed at cycling – in addition to the annual billion that municipalities and regions can look for for both bicycle investments and investments in public transport and sustainable freight transport. The Government's cycling initiative also includes a total of 100 million in the next two years on government bicycle infrastructure and on collaboration with civil society. Research is important in order to develop the transport sector and obtain more climate-smart transport solutions. Cycling is an area that has traditionally been given far too little research space. More knowledge is needed about how cycling can be expanded and made safer. That is why the Green Party was the driving force behind the establishment of a national competence centre for cycling, what is today called the Bicycle Centre. The grant to VTI, the National Road and Transport Research Institute, and the Bicycle Centre is now increased by SEK 15 million a year. The government wants to strengthen total defence and intensify the reconstruction of civil defence. Transport must also be ensured during crises, and the Government therefore proposes an investment of SEK 80 million for 2021, which will then be expanded in the coming years. A transition to indigenous fuels is important because it reduces the vulnerability of society. Madam President, I would like 2021 will be a challenging year as we continue to manage the coronapandemine. But we must also look forward to green recovery and transition. Madam President, I would like Precisely because of the pandemic, the Green Party's full member of the Transport Committee, Emma Berginger, is not here. But I hope I've been able to replace her in the right way. I support the committee's proposal.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1069	Madam President, I would like I do not intend to try to prolong the debate too much, but I just want to double-check that I heard correctly. I understood that the honourable Member said that from an environmental partisan point of view, the road transport system is more or less complete. Then I got nervous. What we see in Sweden and really throughout the Western world is an increased urbanisation. More people choose to move into cities. It is a process that has been going on for a long time, and there is very little evidence that it will stop. In Stockholm we have Eastern connections. In my home district they build around Gothenburg. We see needs in Malmö. But we also see in northern Sweden that our university cities and cities with heavy industry will need a functioning infrastructure. It is not enough that the infrastructure only works inside the cities; it is quite good if you can also occasionally drive between the cities. I meet a lot of people, especially from the countryside, who are deeply frustrated at the fact that they are currently lowering speeds because they are not expanding the road system. I just have to ask the question: was it correctly understood that the Green Party sees it as the road system in principle being completed?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1072	Madam President, I would like I must nevertheless say that I have been a municipal politician in Sweden's fourth largest city, Uppsala, the city that grows most and where we build the most housing. The extension of urban districts and new residential areas also requires roads there, of course, but it is municipal infrastructure to a very large extent. It is certainly the case when you expand cities that there may be a need for some links here and there that are also state infrastructure, but on the whole the infrastructure for the roads is very well developed. In fact, if we look at the road development from a circular economy perspective, we see that the roads are so well-developed that we can usually use the road area we already have for more files but also files for cycling, so that we can make good use of the existing road infrastructure. When we talk about the development of our cities, I think it is important to remember that it is precisely in the cities that the conditions are best to shift from car to public transport and to bicycle in order to reduce the volume of traffic for cars as much as we need to meet the climate targets. Therefore, the most important thing when we expand the cities is that we plan and expand the tram – the metro if we are here in Stockholm – but also bus traffic. And sure enough, the buses also need a way to drive, absolutely!
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1075	Madam President, I would like I have every respect that if you live in Stockholm or Uppsala and have the privilege of commuting between Stockholm and Uppsala, you can experience that the traffic system is relatively well-developed. There are both rail and fine motorways, but even in that system there are bottlenecks from time to time. And you don't have to go far north of Uppsala before you discover that the road system doesn't work. As a Member of course you are also welcome to visit my home country and come out on the coast and see how the entire system is stuck on a summer day out in Grebbestad. In other words, with all due respect, we must have a functioning infrastructure throughout the country. Then it may not have to be just fewer cars driving, but it is the fuel that is the major problem. It is clear that an increasing population with increasing mobility will mean more vehicles in some form, but then it is the fuel and emissions we have to combat, not the vehicle itself.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1077	Madam President, I would like Magnus Jacobsson says that it is quite well developed for the traffic between Uppsala and Stockholm, but then I can remind Magnus Jacobsson that it is not at all. We now need four tracks on the railway between Uppsala and Stockholm, where the government has announced that it is in the plan. There is also a need for trams in Uppsala, and large investments are needed because the housing building is so strong. In rural and sparsely populated areas, there is a need for a strong investment in road maintenance. As a rural political spokesperson in the Green Party, I very much agree with that. That is one of the reasons why the government is spending half a billion on strengthening road maintenance. It's for traffic safety.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1079	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate Category 23 Areella industries, rural areas and food. Of course, we save the best for last and best time on TV – no one is surprised by that. Madam President, I would like I would have liked the Minister for Rural Development to be here to take part in the debate. I would have liked the Minister for Rural Development to have stood in this pulpit and pointed out a way: here we are, this is the vision! That is what we did when we adopted a food strategy three and a half years ago in this House, across party boundaries. It was a food strategy that said we would increase our production, increase our self-sufficiency and increase exports. Unfortunately, Madam President, we are not going there, but there are negative tendencies here. It is still the case that a number of dairy farmers close down every week, and we have, in principle, the lowest milk production in the whole of the European Union. The milk is, as we all know, the engine in Swedish agriculture, so it is very worrying. If we are to achieve the objectives of the food strategy by 2030 while reducing the number of milk producers each week, those who remain will need to be much larger if we are to manage to increase production. If that's where we want to go, we should also say it – that it's the size rationalization we want to see and that we just want to see larger farms so that we can manage to increase production according to the strategy's objectives. It would have been very interesting to have our rural minister here today and hear where we are going. This year has not been any other year like it. At least it has been gratifying in that the demand for Swedish-produced food has increased during the year. This is because you have eaten a little less out in a restaurant and bought more food. It is gratifying that the consumer realises the value of buying Swedish food and that there is a sustainability in doing so. It is food that is produced with much less antibiotics and in an environmentally and climately sustainable way. It's very pleasing. However, I am afraid that the consumption of Swedish food will decrease again when we get out of the pandemic, and then we will also find it difficult to achieve the objectives of the food strategy. I think the government owes the answer here. How are we going to reverse the trend now? How are we going to turn the numbers and the faith of the future up? As far as the Moderates are concerned, we have a number of proposals in a rural package, and I would briefly prefer some of them. First of all, I would like to say that what I thought the government was doing really well, which of the government parties or cooperation parties that now want to take responsibility for it was the great self-financing of the rural development programme. When we got a smaller budget for agriculture at EU level, Sweden made a self-financing of the rural development programme, and that is very important. It is equally important that the new rural development programme be interesting and effective so that many people want to use what will be in it. Otherwise, at least we don't have a win. So to some suggestions in the Moderates' budget. I'll start with the Forest Board. We spend money to enable the Swedish Forest Agency to carry out the collaboration process that has been developed, where you talk about 88 measures to increase production in the forest. This should have been an important part of the forest investigation that was presented a few weeks ago, where one would talk about increased production and strengthened ownership and how we switch to a circular bioeconomy. Unfortunately, the forestry inquiry was more about how we take more land out of production and reduce ownership, but it is another debate. We have also provided money to compensate for wildlife damage. We think there needs to be a bigger pot of money to take out when you are exposed to predator attacks on your domestic animals and farm animals. It is linked to a small investment we make on the county boards which are not under this expenditure poison area but which is important to include. We think the government should take the full cost of protecting predators. We had a debate a week or so ago on the hunting of wolves. We think it is important for the state to go in and collect that expenditure. I read a story just before I came here about a wolf who is now protected, a problem wolf. There have been 696 man-hours spent chasing this wolf, plus various travel expenses, but the County Administrative Board says that no compensation should be paid to those who carried out the protection hunt. That's completely unreasonable. That's why we think the state should go in and take that cost. We have another investment in the county boards, which is strongly linked to agriculture. We want to strengthen the county boards when it comes to carrying out environmental impact assessments to make it easier and faster for farmers to get their environmental permits. Today it may take up to three four years to obtain an environmental permit. Then perhaps the opportunity has disappeared and the bank said that it is no longer interesting. The contract that could possibly have been obtained will no longer exist if it took three four years to obtain an environmental permit to expand its production. It is totally unreasonable, and it is totally counterproductive to the objectives of the food strategy. I'm jumping back to Category 23. The government also made an effort on the Trichinella Tests. You should go in and take the cost of the Trichinella tests, and I think that's great and important. But we also need to go in and take the costs of the cesium samples. This is because the wild boar strain today grows in areas where cesium samples need to be taken. It is therefore extremely important that we maintain a high level of roll-off, and it is reasonable for the state to take the cost of both trichinae and cesium samples. We also have investments in areas where the government unfortunately lowered or almost completely removed its investments. It's about money right into the food strategy. There we have made a greater effort on the part of the Moderates. We believe it is important to maintain the economic level in order to move forward with the food strategy. As has been said earlier, it is a long way from meeting its objectives, and therefore more funding is needed. Another important initiative we make from the Moderates is that we spend money on more places in veterinary education. It's extremely important. There is a great demand for veterinarians, especially on the farm side, so there needs to be more places. There is another problem with the veterinarians, and that is that so many people do not want to work with farm animals. We are not going to have that discussion today. But the Moderates think it's important to invest in more veterinary sites. We have also included a reduction in slaughterhouse fees, which is a major competitive disadvantage for Swedish farmers today. We're shooting at 70 million extra in our budget to take it. Sweden has chosen a system that unfortunately represents a fairly large competitive disadvantage for Swedish agriculture, and therefore we think it is incredibly important to add an additional 70 million in addition to the 107 million available in the budget to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture. We believe and know that Sweden's farmers and foresters need to increase their production. It is through increased production that we gain increased profitability, and in this way agriculture and forestry can deliver the environmental and climate benefits that we want and ask them to do.
i-PRs3EcZ6iJFg2f3bXUWeMG	Madam President, I would like Thank you, John Widegren, for your speech. John Widegren raised several initiatives that the Moderates think are particularly important in areas where they think the government base is doing too little. John Widegren did not lift up near-natural jobs or that the Moderates do not think that near-natural jobs are an important initiative now that we have a fairly large amount of young unemployed who could come in and get both education and support from the Forest Board or any of the other agencies included. The Moderates have also deducted the money from the Forest Board's work on this. Then it may have forgotten to remove the money from the other authorities. It could be one of those fads that could happen. Otherwise, John Widegren will be happy to comment on why you remove the money from Sveaskog but not from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency or SGU or for that matter from the county administrative boards. John Widegren did not mention that Sveaskog should be privatised and that a large part of our jointly owned forest should be sold. We have previously seen what happens when the Moderates are in charge and Sveaskog should be used as a land change tool. Then comes the large, productive forest land of the other forest companies, which is a new form of bagböleri. I'll stay there, and John Widegren can develop why you don't invest in close-to-nature jobs.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1105	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions. When it comes to close-to-nature jobs, we think it is much better to strengthen the industries themselves. If we can strengthen industries and provide them with tools to increase profitability, they will also hire more people, which will lead to more people coming out to work. That's the idea we Moderates have to create new jobs. The jobs close to nature are more of a Social Democratic thought. We have different ideas about how to create new jobs; that's the way it is. But I am pleased to be able to talk about our sales program for Sveaskog. It's really interesting. Unlike the government and the forestry investigation that was presented, we have no distrust of private forest owners. In the forest investigation you talk about how much more land you should take from the private forest owners to preserve high natural values. We believe that private forest owners can preserve high natural values themselves. It is also the private forest owners who have developed the high natural values by using their forests responsibly. Rather, the forest investigation leads to suspicion on the part of forest owners. They think that if they take good care of the forest, the state will come and lay a dead hand over it. Instead, we think that more Swedes should have the opportunity to become forest owners. We have therefore looked at a proposal to sell out smaller parts of Sveaskog. They are not to be sold to the big companies, and one should only be able to buy some each in Sveaskog. This is so that more Swedish citizens will have the chance to become forest owners and feel the joy that it is to be a forest owner.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1111	Madam President, I would like We note that when the Moderates belong to the government base, proposals are put forward that put forest owners in a situation where they are not entitled to compensation. We have been crystal clear that forest owners should of course have the constitutionally protected right to compensation if this is an infringement. I don't know if John Widegren has read the entire Forest investigation on 1,200 pages. You can see that it raises a lot of perspectives. Now it is to be consulted, and we will receive it and, within the framework of the January Agreement, prepare all the issues included there: ownership obligations, international commitments and ensuring the protection of biodiversity on relevant soils. The Moderates continue with their proposals for full-scale privatisation.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1113	Madam President, I would like As far as international commitments are concerned, we also have money for the Swedish Forest Agency to look at and investigate how we compare international commitments – how we compare protected nature with other countries in Europe. It is quite clear that we in Sweden have chosen to interpret this in a way that testifies to self-harm, as we unfortunately often do here. In fact, I have already read a lot of the Forest investigation, and I am in favour of the proposal that there should always be compensation for landmines. On the other hand, on the part of the Moderates, we have said that we must calm down when it comes to land invasion and taking over land. We probably do not need to exempt more forest land from production percentages. We are convinced of this on the part of the Moderates. But the proposal that compensation should always be paid is very good.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1115	Madam President, I would like John Widegren gives an interesting account of the investments made by the Moderates in the budget but does not mention in a word what bets the Moderates do not make or where to cut back. One such area is organic farming. My question to John Widegren is why the Moderates want to reduce the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture and cut back on investments in organic farming. My second question to John Widegren is what he recommends to organic farmers today, who tend to be around 20 per cent of Sweden's arable land, to do when John Widegren cuts their ability to continue. My third question is whether the Moderates do not think it is quite good that we have 20 percent organic farming in Sweden, which contributes to 8 of the 17 global sustainability goals, including through 50 percent higher species wealth for plants and pollinators, reduced climate emissions, great potential for reduced nutrient leakage and protection of surface and groundwater.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1119	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions. So, with regard to the money we have cut for organic production, we are talking about 25 million. It is the extra effort made on organic production that we have removed. Instead, we have contributed EUR 50 million to the food strategy because we want to promote the whole of Swedish agriculture. I know that the Green Party has an abnormally large appetite for organic production. But somewhere you have to start to realize that it is not the salvation of the agricultural issue. We are seeing this year how demand for organically produced goods is falling sharply in Sweden. The price patterns are now in principle in harmony with conventional cultivation. In other words, demand has fallen so much that you do not get paid. And you do not really get paid for the added value that the Green Party often emphasizes, for example that it would be better to grow organically. There's no essence at all in it. It is certainly not better; it is rather the case that in organic farming we drive six to eight times more tractor per cultivated hectare than in conventional ones. It doesn't sound climate-smart to me. We are not opposed to organic production. But if it cannot stand on its own feet, it may not be as much better as the Green Party's craze for it suggests. We want to strengthen Swedish agriculture as a whole and increase demand for Swedish products, whether organic or conventionally produced.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1124	Madam President, I would like The 25 million to the Swedish Agency for Organic Farming is necessary in order, for example, to be able to invest in exports. I read in a report from the LRF that came in 2018 that an investment in more organic farming in Sweden also benefits conventional agriculture in Sweden. This is also what it says:中 Although we in Sweden have lower conventional harvests, we still have the conditions to have higher ecological harvests than other countries in Western Europe. We don't have the same problem either...[you have in other] countries. This gives a high relative competitiveness for organic farming in Sweden compared to other European countries. You want to remove that competitiveness.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1126	Madam President, I would like This is what I mean by the abnormal turn of organic production. If it had been so amazing, the market would also have wanted to pay for this. But it doesn't. Should we continue to carry out some kind of artificial breathing with a lot of extra support to keep life in organic production? I also see that ecologically and conventionally can bring benefits to each other. They can depend on each other and benefit from each other. But we should not continue with artificial breathing, but we should support the entire Swedish production, regardless of whether it is conducted conventionally or ecologically. We also know that we have an incredibly great sustainability today. When using flowering border zones and other things on the conventional side, the species wealth in the form of butterflies and other things is at least equal to that of organic growers. From the Moderates' side, we maintain our line: We will support Swedish agriculture as a whole, whether organic or conventional.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1130	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the budget for Category 23, which includes agricultural activities, food policy and part of rural policy. The three sub-areas of expenditure are intertwined, and the agricultural industries form the basis for the other two. If the real industries have good profitability, much more is possible. This concerns a living countryside as well as what is possible in terms of natural considerations and food quality. Swedish agriculture and forestry are well developed, efficient and environmentally friendly. However, agriculture must be given more reasonable conditions of competition. The profitability of agriculture has been low for many years and has led to several problems for the industry. For forestry it is important to conduct a policy that encourages landowners to manage and develop their forests. Active forestry is crucial for developing Sweden's bioeconomy and for the climate. For all sectors, it is important to seek synergies so that, while promoting the environment, measures also provide better conditions for the production and promotion of other values. This will make it possible to take into account all the values associated with the agricultural industries. The Swedish democrats propose to strengthen expenditure area 23 by SEK 661 million in addition to the Government's proposal. We also reduce the employer's contribution compared to the Government's budget and remove sickness pay liability for the smallest companies and reduce fuel tax. Swedish agriculture requires a battery of measures in the short and long term. First, the negative spiral must be broken. The most important thing is increased profitability, and it must start immediately. We cannot be content with the food strategy and miss the short time horizon. Increased profitability would even reduce vulnerability and create new opportunities and choices. This will be achieved by reducing costs, increasing demand and creating and providing conditions for technological development and providing reimbursement of costs for certain Swedish additional requirements. It is also important to remove obstacles through reduced administration, simplification and more reliable administrative and supervisory procedures. We're doing all of this. An example of an immediate reduction in overhead costs, which for inscrutable reasons is a little controversial, is a reduction in the tax on diesel for agriculture and forestry to the Danish level. Together with other tax cuts, it gives the agricultural industry an increased profitability immediately. This is, of course, complemented by a series of measures aimed at strengthening the function and profitability of agriculture in the long and medium term. From this position of strength, Swedish agriculture can then become even more environmentally and climate friendly without endangering the economy. So it is a matter of doing things in the right order. Swedish aquaculture has problems with regulatory problems, but it also has great potential. We are putting out missions and money to make simplification possible. Sweden may have the best animal welfare in the world, but it can still be better. We cannot accept stunning methods for slaughter in the pig industry that cause great suffering, even if they are better than other methods. We allocate funds to research to develop gentler stunning methods. We also allow a review of the country's zoos to ensure good animal welfare. The reindeer industry is also an important industry in northern Sweden. We increase the grant by SEK 10 million annually. The damage from predators is greater than previously known. Now is the time to invest in forest management. First of all, for the simple reason that forest management is neglected in both reserves and many production forests, but also because the concern about the so-called key biotopes has been somewhat dispelled. The Swedish democrats have been driven to point out that the registration of key biotopes has created major problems for forestry, for legal certainty and, in fact, indirectly for the environment when the important trust and dialogue deteriorates. Almost all parties have registered in it, and most recently also the Forest investigation. I'm glad to hear that. We increase the funding by 65 million to increase the Swedish Forest Agency's efforts for active forest management in dialogue with the landowner. But new storm clouds have surfaced. It proposes increased bureaucracy and large new provisions for forest land, which would put a dead hand over a large part of our countryside. This proposal and other proposals ignore the environmental benefits that forest management can bring. Sveaskog has shown good examples in its ecoparks, where even the white-backed woodpecker is now on its way back. The forestry sector has high expectations of its important role in the transition to more sustainable products and in the sequestration of carbon dioxide. Research on how forest growth can increase is therefore important. We add 50 million extra per year to that. In order for specialists to be available outside the big cities, it is important to also maintain the training courses there. Priority must be given to practical specialist training if trained staff are to be available to meet the increasingly complex tasks of the agricultural sector. The forestry master's school in Skinnskatteberg is an excellent example. Basic research also receives 50 million for research on increased forest production and the development of new timber-based products Although much of rural policy is in the areas of other committees, I would like to say a few words about our thoughts on rural areas. How are you going to make the countryside live? A friend answered that question with: Leave the countryside alone! Actually, there's a lot in it. Rules and decisions affect everyday life a lot for all people, and to a large extent decision-makers at municipal, regional, national and EU level have been shady-eyed to the needs of rural people. That has to change. But it is also about encouraging entrepreneurship and other ideas. We have made a first attempt to bring together our policies from various committees in a rural movement. You'd be happy to read it. There are plenty of concrete proposals, such as that the property tax from hydropower and other similar properties should remain in rural areas. We propose reducing employers' fees for small businesses, simplifying beach protection, better travel deductions, improved service and investments in the fine-meshed network of road and rail that holds Sweden together instead of on big city initiatives and much more. Finally, let me return to agriculture. More needs to be done. For example, the regulatory burden must be reduced. We give a special assignment to the authorities where they will continually propose rules that can be phased out. We are setting up a specialised environmental testing delegation that understands the conditions of agriculture and leads to proportionate decisions. We set competence requirements for verifiers to understand the conditions of the industries. We also strengthen the instructions to the authorities directly to comply closely with the administrative law. Money goes to more veterinarians and to the reduction of slaughterhouse fees. The grazing requirement for dairy cows shall be compensated. We enable cost-effective compliance with environmental objectives and advanced plant breeding. We are setting up a secretariat for the synchronisation of research and agricultural needs. We follow up biology for the sake of both the environment and production. We'll raise the game compensation and boost the food strategy. All this goes beyond what the government does. Then I haven't mentioned the soft pieces yet. Sweden's dairy farmers have a difficult situation, not least the small farms, and every ten keepers never take vacations. They cannot afford to hire changers because of low profitability. This is largely due to political decisions. Politics has a duty to act. Increased opportunities for leave would make work more socially sustainable and attractive for young people, as well as more equal opportunities. The Swedish Democrats are proposing an investigation, and pending its completion, we propose a pilot project in two counties. The question of agriculture begins and ends with profitability, whether you want it or not. All eight parties have a responsibility for this. There are different ideas about what agriculture should look like in the future, but I tell you this: none of those models will become reality unless profitability exists! Let us therefore work together all eight of us to ensure this important precondition.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1156	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Staffan Eklöf, for your speech. The Swedish Democrats seem to want very much. It highlights a great many different initiatives, and it sounds as if there is a need for a great deal of support if the Swedish Democrats are to be involved in steering. I've had a bit of fun reading and comparing budget figures. There, the Swedish Democrats take a special position. The Swedish Democrats' budget differs in eleven different parts from the government. In addition, the Swedish Democrats have eight entirely own, new initiatives. The Swedish democrats work here to be in a right-wing conservative bloc. What will happen when you differ so flagrantly from the Moderates? In this area of the budget there are 17 different points, and the difference is more than 800 million compared to what the Moderates put in their budget. Then I think: Is this just a game and a number bingo? Or is it the same way that the Swedish Democrats have acted on the NATO issue – one day we absolutely should not join, the next day it is perfectly possible to join?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1159	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Isak From, for the question! Of course, there are a lot of things I bring up. This is a large area and one must try to see the whole. With all due respect, there are a lot of pieces missing in government policy that need to be fixed up. These are a variety of areas, as my speech showed. When I listened to the Moderates' speech, it occurred to me that there were many similarities. It does. Then there is the fact that you cannot adapt your policies before you enter into cooperation, but you have to meet each other. I believe that good arguments will go a long way. We share the basic view with the Moderates, namely that the industries are of prime importance and crucial importance if we are to achieve other goals – not only economic goals but also environmental, food quality and animal welfare objectives. It's all connected. The strongest tick between us is that we have a holistic view. The Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats have a very strong holistic view and a consistent thinking. Consequences are of great importance. It is necessary to analyse the impact of a measure on other areas. Then it is probably a more difficult position in which the Social Democrats have sat down when they cooperate with the Green Party, which in my opinion has a rather one-track view.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1162	Madam President, I would like Member Staffan Eklöf answers very clearly that this will be adapted. So the numbers are merely fake. I can say that neither this government nor previous governments have succeeded in what the pandemic has succeeded in. In fact, demand for Swedish quality products has increased sharply now. Locally produced products are in demand as never before. Of course, we shall also benefit from this in the long term. This is very important for profitability. It is very important to trust and invest in the green industries. This is in fact the basis of the food strategy. How can we get an increased demand for Swedish quality products while we can export our high quality products to other countries?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1165	Madam President, I would like I think this shows that we also share many views with the Social Democrats. The food strategy is excellent. It's just a shame there's a delay on it. Therefore, measures must also be taken now, in the short term, in order to achieve immediate profitability. We cannot wait for the new CAP either, because it will also be a few years. We will have a lot of bankruptcies if we do not do things in the short term and increase profitability in the short term. It's absolutely crucial. There will be no faith in the future either. We've got a lot of bets. Compromises may be required. We do not know that, but what is very clear about all our many proposals is that we are pointing to many weaknesses in the government budget. I also hope that the demand for Swedish food remains after the pandemic. But to a large extent the demand depends, as John Widegren said, that we now eat less food in a restaurant and eat more food at home.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1169	Madam President, I would like The Government states in the bill that the aim of the policy for agricultural, rural and food industries is to contribute to sustainable development in all parts of the country. That is a good objective, which I believe most of us here are signing. The question is, how do we get there? The Left Party budget contains several elements that increase equality through redistribution and create the conditions for success in the green transition. For us, it is a matter of course that people should be able to live and live throughout the country. This requires good access to public services and public presence. Children should not have to take the bus at dawn because the nearest school has closed down. Older people should have the opportunity to move to a retirement home near their home when that day comes. Police are supposed to be all over the country. And we want there to be a good infrastructure with buses and trains running on time. Today, much of the resources are gathered in the metropolitan regions, but it is the whole country that has worked together the wealth. That is why we propose a tax system that redistributes the money so that it benefits the whole of Sweden. The whole country is needed to make the transition to a green and sustainable society, from the wind farms in the north to the rape fields in the south. In a green and sustainable society, sustainable agriculture is central. Swedish agriculture has always been an important part of Swedish self-image and an important factor in social development. Good harvest years have historically brought a prosperous society. This can happen again, and this needs to be the case by securing our supply of food produced close, sustainable and ecologically. It will be a green transition that contributes to biodiversity and creates jobs throughout the country. The Left Party wants us in Sweden to raise our ambitions for self-sufficiency from 50 to 80 per cent and for a food and fuel emergency reserve. Sweden has had it in the past, but it has gradually been phased out. The initial phase of the Corona crisis, with rapidly closed borders and limited opportunities for cross-border transport, showed the vulnerability and that we cannot rely solely on the market to get through the crisis. That is why we once again need emergency stocks. We also need to build up our endurance. That is why we are highlighting a proposal from the authorities that has already been made that a pilot study should be launched in which the Swedish National Agricultural Upper Secondary School tests the continuous production of emergency food. This would reduce our dependence on imports and increase resistance to disturbances. It is a proposal with many benefits for both the environment and the sustainable development of agriculture. Agriculture has great potential to contribute to improved climate change adaptation, but it is also facing major challenges itself. Drought as well as torrential rain will make different demands than before on agricultural water management, with increased costs as a result. Therefore, we propose new state aid for investments and invest SEK 450 million to 2023 in measures in agriculture that strengthen water management in a changing climate. The Left Party wants to see an increase in the proportion of herbal foods. I know this is a point where many of you might pull your ears and react from your spinal cord. It is often seen as a threat to Swedish agriculture because we talk about it in connection with an increased vegetable diet. But why should it be? Of course, our future herbal foods will be produced in Sweden. There is demand from consumers, and Swedish agriculture already has many good products to offer. This, of course, is something that we need to be involved in supporting. For the Left Party, it is important to strengthen organic farming. It has several advantages when chemical pesticides and fertilizers are not used. We want to support the transition from conventional farming to organic farming. It gives us a stronger biodiversity as well as a strengthened animal welfare. The support we want to see is aimed at both conversion and production. We also want to see an increase in funding for support for pasture land. In order to promote small-scale opportunities and increase animal welfare, the Left Party proposes investment aid for mobile slaughterhouses. The number of slaughterhouses has decreased, and this is a long distance, which is not preferable from the point of view of animal welfare. The pressure to hold down prices due to imported meat and competition from large slaughterhouses are a few factors. In addition, there is a shortage of trained staff. By improving the supply of local slaughterhouses, we can reduce the need for long animal transport and at the same time strengthen the close and local production. In this way, we also improve our self-sufficiency. I believe that many of you have seen that a new call has been launched from a part of agriculture. It's called Big Enough. They believe that Sweden needs more farmers and more farms and that Sweden needs to protect the small-scale ones and work to enable them to survive. I mean, they're right. Sweden and the EU have pursued an agricultural policy which, at best, promotes it on a large scale. In the worst case, it forces farmers into an ever greater production, which is not sought by themselves, so that they can stay afloat. In order for us to have a sustainable agriculture with strong local ties, a proximity principle and a focus on ecological sustainability, we need to protect even the smaller producers. They may not primarily contribute to the volumes. But they have other important values, such as jobs, a strong biodiversity and knowledge of land, animals and the product produced. Last but not least, we propose a new initiative to promote the development of biogas. Sweden is in great need of replacing fossil fuels with renewable fuels in parallel with increased electric power to achieve fossil-free transport in the long term. Sweden also needs to increase the production of these fuels. Biogas has a number of uses, and the potential to increase biogas production in Sweden is good. Swedish biogas production, on the other hand, today finds it difficult to compete with that in Denmark, which has generous production aid approved by the EU. In Sweden we miss it. The Left Party believes that production premiums should therefore be introduced, as proposed by the Biogas Market Survey, and will allocate SEK 500 million in support of it.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1185	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin my speech by thanking all of Sweden's farmers for the great and important work you are doing to ensure that we consumers receive food, Being a farmer is not a normal seven-to-four job, but far more. It's not a regular job from Monday to Friday, but you can get to work seven days a week. Do our farmers receive the appreciation and praise they deserve? I'm afraid that's all there is to it. Words such as this are often used in the public debate. We are going to make our young people want to invest in becoming farmers, but they are fed at school that this is the way it is. A farmer contacted me a week ago and said that his daughter who was in eighth grade had seen a film in school where all the shame was laid on the peasants. The film was not even made in Sweden. The fact that our young people are faced with this, I think, the hand on the heart, shows how terrible it looks today. In fact, nothing can be more wrong. Our farmers are heroes who sustain our country. The fact is that without our farmers – no food. It's as simple as that. Sweden Food Arena has worked for a long time. What are they saying? They say it is in the green industry that we have a great future. They are talking about 50,000 new jobs by 2030. It's amazing! Where can we expect so many new jobs? I don't know. But there is this in the green industry, and we must, of course, be involved in it. Madam President, I would like On my visits around the country, I always get the same question. It never goes wrong. Whether it's Luleå or Lund, they say this: How's the food strategy going, Magnus? The profitability would increase for us farmers. Then it's a little tough, I think, because what should I say? I say as it is: the fact is that we do not see the government doing enough. This is becoming a joke among farmers, and I'm sure you'll all meet farmers. They think that the food strategy was just typical talk – a lot of talk and a lot of new documents. Here I mean, my friends, the government needs to get its act together. The cornerstone of the whole strategy that we adopted here in this House in the summer of 2017 was that Swedish agriculture should be strengthened and competitiveness and profitability increased. Sweden would end up with policy to phase out Swedish agriculture. Instead, we would develop it. I mean, we haven't noticed much of that yet. If we are serious about strengthening competitiveness and increasing profitability, we Christian Democrats believe that one measure that could be done directly would be, for example, to reduce fuel tax in a first step. Madam President, I would like Another cornerstone of the food strategy is an increase in food self-sufficiency. What has happened to that goal after these years of the food strategy? Not very well, I'm afraid. Actually, we're still down to bottom levels. Every other bite we eat doesn't come from our country. Madam President, I would like John Widegren was in on the number of dairy farmers, which is drastically decreasing. The number has halved in ten years and is now down to about 3 200 dairy businesses. The number of dairy cows has fallen by 50,000 in ten years. Today there are about 300 000 left. In Sweden, the amount of weighed milk is reduced. We are one of the countries in Europe where it decreases most. In the footsteps of the pandemic, we see clear consequences. I'm sure we all remember the empty shelves in the grocery stores. I thought to myself, is it empty here? ! Here I usually buy flour and yeast – now it is empty! Is this in Sweden? I thought. Yes, it was in Sweden. Unfortunately, not everything can be blamed on this government. In fact, even the former alliance government was blue-eyed in this and said it would be all right. It'll be all right. The food's coming. It was blue-eyed. Madam President, I would like It is a matter of destiny for our country to have food available in the event of crisis or war. Then it is not good enough with a self-sufficiency of around 50%. We should learn from our good neighbour Finland, who has a completely different view of the country's self-sufficiency – at least 80%. Madam President, I would like The boar tribe is too large in Sweden. I can't imagine anyone saying anything else. Although the country's hunters have never shot as many wild boars as this season, the wild boar tribe is still far too large in some parts of Sweden. It is about damage in the billion-dollar class to agriculture. There are huge amounts of damage to traffic and destroyed villa gardens. This is part of what wild boars cause. I have noticed that the government has talked a lot about a wild boar package. However, we have not seen much yet, more than that the Trichinella test should be free. That is a good proposal, because we Christian Democrats have been exercising it for years. We also suggest that the cesium tests on wild boar should be free of charge. Unfortunately, in some parts the levels are too high. The most important thing is, however, we believe, that the hunters, after the tests are made, can sell the meat themselves to consumers, shops and restaurants. We think this is very important, and we put in our draft budget 50 million more than the government to reduce the feral pig population in Sweden.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1202	Madam President, I would like Magnus Oscarsson told the speaker that the number of dairy cows is falling dramatically and has decreased by 50,000 in ten years. The dairy farms are dropping at a fast pace. One of the Christian Democrats' cane horses in the work on food and agricultural policy is that competitiveness should increase. How can work on competitiveness stop the closure of dairy farms?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1204	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for the question. It was great that I got that question, because that's exactly what it's all about! The trend has been that the number of dairy farms has decreased for a long time. We had a period where we saw four five dairy farms closing down each week. Now it's down to one, two or maybe three a week. When I talk to dairy farmers, something that perhaps even Mr Gardfjell does from time to time, they say to me: Magnus, we notice that competitiveness and profitability are too poor and need to be strengthened. I believe that we must then put forward proposals that make these dairy farmers feel that we are doing something that makes a difference to them. It's not good enough that, year after year, we talk about problems if we don't do something about them. I mentioned, for example, reduced fuel tax. It is part of strengthening competitiveness. Why? Because in other European countries, for example, they have much lower fuel taxes. This is where we need to get closer. There are other things too. We can look at the regulations. If a dairy farmer today also has growing crops, he or she has 600 rules to adhere to. 600 rules! We must, of course, make a difference here. I know the government talks and talks about it, but what's going on? Here we must make sure that there is a difference. At the same time, we need to develop a different regulatory framework that prevents dairy farmers from feeling like criminals when they wake up. In the event of the slightest mistake, there will be a departure from payment.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1211	Madam President, I would like The Left Party Member mentioned earlier the roll call Big enough in the speaker's seat. I actually signed the petition myself. It is so clear that the small dairy farms are in trouble because they are being outcompeted by dairy products and cheese products imported from other countries. The constant focus on competitiveness means that the farms that exist in Sweden are out of competition. There must be another recipe for strengthening Swedish agriculture, namely quality. But how? Can the Christian Democrats reformulate their political programme to actually strengthen the small dairy farms around Sweden?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1213	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Gardfjell for the questions. This is great. We really need to discuss the issues. This is serious. I mentioned the tendency, that the nutrition loses every week. The number of cows has decreased. We also see that profitability is the problem. Even if a farmer has 40, 50 or 60 cows, he says that profitability is too bad. This is where we have to help each other. I would like to ask the honourable Member a question, but now she cannot answer. The environmental code states that agriculture is environmentally hazardous. It is important to change there.
i-PfRvrQUXtesf6Dw78KTy8Z	Madam President, I would like We are now debating MJU2 Area of expenditure 23 Areella industries, and I call for the proposal in the report to be approved. 2020 was not as we predicted when we stood here a year ago. In order to mitigate the financial consequences of the outbreak of the virus, the government parties and the cooperation parties have submitted twelve additional budgets and ordinary spring and autumn budgets to the Riksdag. The ongoing pandemic has helped to highlight the major differences in society. This has been important and, not least, priority has been given to ensuring health care. It is extremely important that health care and care work throughout the country, including in rural areas. However, it has been shown that rural areas have been stronger and better coped with the pandemic than the metropolitan areas. The area we are in now, in particular, has been extremely poor. Future investigations may evaluate what this may be due to. We see a new trend that young families want to move out in rural areas. We particularly welcome that. In Sweden, we will be able to live and realize our dreams no matter where we live. The aid implemented in the form of increased a‐cash, improved health insurance, strengthened state aid to municipalities and regions has been important. When I looked at the Committee on Economic Affairs' budget debate earlier in the afternoon, virtually all previous alliance parties just paid tribute to the subsidies to our companies. This was not the case in 2008 – 2009 under the alliance government. When we demanded lay-off aid for industry and trade, they were in Reinfeldt's Sweden a special interest. That is not the case today. We Social Democrats believe that rural policy should be built together with other budgetary areas. It should be possible to live and live in the whole country whether we are in Vilhelmina, Bollnäs or Sölvesborg. That is why we are proposing initiatives in many different areas. The Food Strategy, the Forest Programme, the Common Agricultural Policy and the Maritime and Fisheries Policy contribute to the objective of the coherent rural policy. It is important, we believe and the government base, that we continue to strengthen business development in the most vulnerable small municipalities. The 70 million we contributed to the 39 smallest municipalities in assisted areas A is relatively little money in the total budget but important to ensure that we develop industrial policy there too. A tax cut also in these municipalities of SEK 1,600 for municipal citizens is important. We remember that a number of the right-wing parties voted against this reform when it was discussed in the Committee on Taxation. It is true, as has been said here, that there has been investment in road maintenance in rural areas, railway maintenance and broadband roll-out. It is good from several aspects that we increase biogas support. The food strategy has been highlighted here. We believe that the food strategy is the basis. We are now making major efforts in the field of defence to ensure a level of preparedness, which several different governments have dismantled. Now it's time to change that. We also see clear tendencies that more people choose Swedish and local produce. We thank you for the fact that more people seem to be interested in origin marking in restaurants. The government implements several important initiatives in the budget. The competitiveness of the food sector is strengthened by 19 million. Eldrimner, i.e. the Resource Centre for Small-scale Food Processing, is strengthened by 10 million. The Swedish Board of Agriculture adds 25 million for the work on organic food. In addition, there is 5 million to SLU for the work on plant breeding. They are all very important bets. We hope that we can leave the agricultural CAP period with an extremely fragmented support system that has been very difficult for the responsible authorities. This is precisely why we are giving money to the Swedish Agriculture Agency to ensure that it is possible to continue to expand the digital competence of the agency so that farmers can get their support. It's not all ready yet. Right now, many parts are still uncertain. Some have to do with Brexit. Some have to do with the long-term budget. Poland and Hungary have so far refused to agree to wordings linking the budget to the rule of law principles that Sweden, among other things, has clearly demanded. We call on everyone to stand by the demands and to ensure that the agreement on the long-term budget is maintained so that we can move forward, so that we can have long-term funding, a new CAP period, for our farmers. We think we have reached a good agreement on the rural development programme – or whether it should be called structural programmes – namely that we go in and finance it with national funds. It's very important. Madam President, I would like Magnus Oscarsson picked up this thing with young farmers. I had a RUT study carried out last year, and now the LRF is publishing a similar report that basically points in the same direction: loan funding for young farmers is weak, and particularly weak is it for young women. Young women who want to become rural entrepreneurs cannot borrow money. This is a serious concern not only for food supply, but also for gender equality, which we must tackle seriously. More than 60 percent of the women who have responded in the LRF's gender equality survey say that they are not allowed to borrow money. They may want to start a garden, have a sheep farm, or invest in something else. But the bank or the financial institutions say, ‘No, that seems to us to be a bad idea.' However, if you are a middle-aged person, you can do much better. This is not acceptable, not in an equal Sweden. In fact, we have to take that on board to deal with this in a real way. We also provide the necessary resources to deal with much of the damage caused by wild boars. The 20 million-dollar wild boar package is welcome. We also need to move forward with the proposal on feeding restrictions that is on the way. We need to continue work on this, and we need to ensure that wild boars enter the market. Madam President, I would like I am aware that I am taking over my speaking time, but I would like to go into forestry policy and state clearly that the objectives are set. Forest policy is based on the equal objectives of production and the environment; that is the fundamental part. The forestry sector's responsibility and the freedom of forest owners under responsibility also remain intact, and that is why both the ownership inquiry and the Species Protection investigation – which will present their work later next year – are very important for us to overcome many of the opposing both objectives and legislation that have prevented many from receiving legitimate compensation, that we have not been able to protect the right areas and that we do not know that further processing and investment in forests is safe enough. That's something we're going to have to talk a lot about next year. Another part that is already being highlighted in the Forest Investigation is the forest damage centre that we plan to locate at SLU. It's very important. The studies now indicate that the törskate fungus, which causes major damage to pine trees in northern Sweden, is as extensive as the granbarcroll infestations and cloven-hoofed game damage in southern Sweden. It is extremely urgent that we deal with those injuries. Finally, I'd like to raise this issue of close-to-nature work. It is not sustainable in the long term to continue to allow guest workers with poor status to carry out all the maintenance jobs that need to be performed in the forest. These include management of joints, clearing, thinning and so on. It is therefore very important that many of the young people who are now going out into unemployment are given the opportunity to take part in the natural jobs. We in MJU started early this morning, at 7.30 p.m., and now we end the evening here in the Chamber. It is clear that it is we in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture who are holding together the parliamentary work! We are the basis of supply, whether it is the forest economy or food production. I would like to conclude by wishing my colleagues a Merry Christmas and extend my sincere thanks to the MJU Office for all its support. We must certainly hope that next year we will be able to return to greater normality. With that I wish a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year!
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1237	Madam President, I would like I think it is good that the Social Democrats have an ambition for a living countryside. Certainly there are many weaknesses in the government budget, as I said earlier, but there are also a lot that are good. Perhaps the Social Democrats could actually succeed, at least if they worked with the Swedish Democrats instead. Now you don't, and we're not going to cooperate. The Social Democrats have decided to cooperate with the Green Party, and what will happen? It supports increased petrol costs, reduced travel deductions and many other things that mean that people with normal and low incomes in rural areas get worse – and so you have bonuses – the malus system, which gives toys to the upper class. How is it going to bring the countryside alive, and how does it go with the Social Democrats' distribution policy? In addition, 30 per cent of Sweden's area will be set aside for reservations, and the new forest investigation considers it appropriate to place this in the interior of Norrland. I don't think the people who live in the interior of Norrland think it's a good idea. It doesn't make a lot of living countryside. The rules known as the taxonomy rules mean further detailed management by the EU. As I see it, the government has been very passive in those negotiations, which now risks leading to very detailed rules for the forest. It will be difficult to get profitability if it wants to hurt itself. In addition, the rules stipulate that only conventional agriculture will receive investment money. In fact, the rules of the eco-regulation on pesticide use must be complied with. I think there are more people than me who wonder how the government will get this calculation together and get to a vibrant countryside with the politics that is being conducted and that is around the corner.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1242	Madam President, I would like Perhaps now it is not precisely in the policy area of real industries that S and SD differ most. The Swedish Democrats and the Green Party are two different parties. We do not always think the same, but we have a good dialogue on most issues. The big problem between the Swedish Democrats and the Social Democrats here is that we think fundamentally different on so many other issues, such as foreign policy, social justice, public service and cultural policy. We are different in our view of free and open media and of the equal value of all people. That's where the big difference lies. When it comes to the Forest investigation, it is precisely a forest investigation, and it is set up based on a collaboration between four parties. We have brought several different parts into the investigation, and it is very extensive. The whole reason for the Forest investigation is that there were huge deficiencies that were not covered by previous objectives or legislation, which is very much moving towards each other. An investigation that is on the table, however, is not the same as our party. We see some obstacles, perhaps even major obstacles, in protecting only the mountain forest. We see that protection probably needs to be spread across the country. We need to ensure that this is financed so that it is sustainable in the long term. We need to ensure that those forest owners who are actually to be included in this do so on a voluntary basis and feel satisfied with the compensation. Let me be very clear about taxonomy: I think many people are very surprised at how a technically written act can suddenly become an economic policy governance document in a completely different direction. We can't do that either.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1246	Madam President, I would like I sense a little fighting will there, and I hope to see it in Brussels. We have to reverse this taxonomy, and I will look for results and will criticise if there is no result. The calculator doesn't add up in this area. Isak From then turns to other areas and discusses them, but I would like to continue to discuss agricultural industries. I mentioned a number of problems, but these are not the only ones. We are now going to reduce the use of antibiotics by 50%, reduce the use of plant protection products by 50% and do a lot of other things according to single-track fixed figures. It is a new planned economy for the EU.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1249	Madam President, I would like We had a previous debate here with lines where it was made very clear that the Swedish Democrats in this area too are very different – they differ from the government in 18 different budget areas. Even in this area there is a big difference, and you want to be inside and poking at a lot of details. I think it will be very difficult for the government that must cooperate with the Swedish Democrats. Gud help us — we will do everything we can to prevent it from happening.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1251	Madam President, I would like The hour is running late, and we have a budget debate on Category 23. I think we are having great fun and hope that we will go on for a long time yet! I have a question, Madam President, or rather a number of questions. We are some who have lifted the fact that we are reducing the number of dairy cows and that we are reducing the number of cattle. Many people cite the problem of Swedish pastures growing again; it is not grazed enough. At the same time, the Social Democrats are here in the pulpit talking about all the good things that the government is doing now, about all the strategies that are under way and about future visions. The food strategy is also mentioned. But is it not a matter of concern on the part of the government that so many curves are actually going in the wrong direction? Is it not concerned that the number of cattle in Sweden is falling? We know that this is a giant engine in Swedish agriculture, that we need more grazing animals and that milk is actually the engine of Swedish agriculture. Aren't you worried? And when will you actually start doing something different in your politics? I wonder, Madam President. It is quite obvious and clear that what has been done up to now is not what the farmers are asking to reverse this trend and start producing more food. They want something else. Has the government thought about it, and – above all – does the government have the tools and skills to turn this around? Time passes, and production goes down.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1256	Madam President, I would like The Moderates have been very clear in the past that this policy area should also be fully market-oriented. Had we had a complete market adjustment with the demand we have today, we would probably have had both less milk and fewer cows. But I share John Widegren's view that we need to keep the land open. This work is, in the future, very important. As I said in my speech, we see that there are very many young people who actually want to become farmers, but they cannot borrow money for their dream because they are not considered to be sufficiently strong capital. Here we need to think about what action we can make and what action we can steer from the rural development programme, or whether it should now be called Structural Fund programmes. There is a small pot there for new farmers that you can invest in, but I think we need to do a lot more. At the end of the day, it is still about what demand we have. We have a very good quality of our raw materials, both on the milk and on the meat and on the wheat grains, the barley and the oats. All of this also needs to be exported; it needs to be a basis in this. Our own level of self-sufficiency isn't gonna fix this. When you count self-sufficiency, you also include citrus fruits, coffee, chocolate and many other things, but on the big commodities we are almost self-sufficient. However, we need to ensure supply chains across the country. We need to build layers to different extents. We need to steer with fair terms and procurement from the public sector in a much better way.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1260	Madam President, I would like I thank you for your answer, if we are to call it an answer – I do not really think that Isak From came up with anything concrete about what we actually need to do differently. What is being done today does not seem enough to reverse the trend. Some previous speaker mentioned a number of new EU strategies that are under way. A lot of them are about us reducing the amount of money we need. We're taking land out of production. But I hear that the Social Democrats and the government really want us to increase our production. How is this supposed to happen? While some government parties are turning a lot for organic production, which means a smaller amount of feed produced, the EU strategies are saying that we should reduce the amount of land we have in production. How do you get that equation together, and is the government prepared to really work in the EU to adapt this to the Swedish systems? Otherwise we will continue to reduce production here in Sweden.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1263	Madam President, I would like Yes, absolutely. Let me remind you of the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the alliance government's design of the rural development programme. It contributed to a programme structure that made it possible neither for businesses nor for the authorities to achieve their objectives. Here we can help to design a new programming period that makes it easier for businesses and does not spoil them and makes it easier for consumers and authorities to achieve what the programme is actually going to achieve.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1265	Madam President, I would like I was going to ask Mrs Isak From a question. I think it is good that the honourable Member should raise this issue with young people. That it is tough for young people is a problem that I too encounter. If you really have been driven and want to be a farmer, it is difficult with the economy. This also applies to young women who become farmers. In my speech, I mentioned that profitability is too poor. We adopted a food strategy in the summer of 2017, and in it we actually said a lot of good things. I think it has been very good; I myself was involved in negotiating it with the then rural minister and others in this House. Much of what was said was very important. For once we talked about how we wanted to develop Swedish agriculture. A lot of people talk about how we want to phase out all the time, but then we said we wanted to develop. But if we sum up what it looks like, it may not really look very exciting, because we have not seen that profitability has gone up or that competitiveness has been strengthened. Or am I wrong? I would like an answer from Mrs Isak From.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1270	Madam President, I would like The S-government and then rural minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht built the food strategy on the alliance government's competitiveness inquiry. I don't think it's changed a lot. The competitiveness inquiry showed very clearly that the farmers who have a leg to stand on have a weak financial position, especially the farmers who are in very bad shape. Those farmers who have more legs to stand on – agriculture, forestry and perhaps some form of further processing – have a pretty good profitability. They are also the ones who largely buy up and close other farms. We need to develop a policy that allows more young people who want to become farmers to actually become farmers. You shouldn't be completely bankrupt when you borrow money for it. And there should be a support system to ensure that we have a regrowth in the agricultural industry.
i-7jjGni3c9adowygBuERQCa	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Isak From, for your answer. You have now been in government for six years, and the food strategy has been in place since summer 2017. If you yourself had been in some form of government, I wonder whether you would not ask yourself what it looks like today, whether it has succeeded and moved forward, whether our self-sufficiency and the number of farmers have increased. The answer is that it is the opposite. Unfortunately, with regard to the number of dairy farmers, for example, it is a sloping downward curve. It is very serious, so I would like to ask whether you are discussing with the government a sustainable action programme. At the same time, I would like to wish the honourable Member and my colleagues a Merry Christmas.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1274	Madam President, I would like I think it has been made clear to the honourable Member Magnus Oscarsson, who has attended all the CAP meetings that the Ministry of Rural Development with Jennie Nilsson and Secretary of State Per Callenberg have had with us, that we have a very clear ambition to ensure that the new programming period will be good. We have now been at the government in some different constellations. Then we had hoped that in 2019 we had been allowed to rule with our own budget and not with an SD-supported M-KD budget. We had also hoped that we had avoided the pandemic and been able to focus on more efforts in several areas. Now we see that the demand for good Swedish products is increasing, so I would say that we are on the right track. And I think that together we can highlight these important issues also here in the Swedish Parliament.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1277	Madam President, I would like It is December 10, Nobel Day, but there will be no ordinary celebration because of the pandemic that the whole world is in. I may find it a bit sin, for there are many outstanding achievements that do not get the chance to become as famous as they had become at a more normal celebration. This year it feels a little extra exciting from the point of view of the Committee on Environment and Agriculture when the Nobel Prize in Chemistry goes to the development of a so-called gene scissors to facilitate the development of new crops that are important for sustainable food production. Among other things, it is a question of being able to reduce the use of plant protection products, and then this technology is one of the prerequisites. It is also about increasing food production and a robustness linked to climate change. Maybe it's as close to a Swedish Nobel Prize as we'll be for a long time, I don't know. Some may wish that before Christmas we receive some additional kind of Christmas present in the form of a research bill, which would be exciting, not least, linked to the area we are debating today. The Nobel Peace Prize is awarded to the World Food Programme. In committee, we had the privilege of meeting the UN director there, Mr. David Beasley, when he visited the Swedish Parliament a while ago to discuss the huge challenges facing the whole world as hunger increases, partly due to the coronapandemia we find ourselves in, but also due to climate change and extreme weather of various kinds, drought or rain. When we see this development, I think that in Sweden we have a responsibility to increase our food production, so that more people can eat enough. And in order for more people to have the chance to eat environmentally sound, healthy and safe food from Swedish farms, more active farmers are needed. Sometimes that perspective is forgotten when different debaters like everything from cows' climate impact to industrial agriculture's contribution to eutrophication. The Center Party defends a competitive, sustainable Swedish agriculture, and through the January agreement we have had unique opportunities to influence the direction of agricultural policy. In this year's budget negotiations, we have used this opportunity to strengthen Sweden's farmers' competitiveness. Madam President, I would like This year's budget for Category 23 is close to SEK 23 billion. It is a lot of money, and it has great significance not only for the green industries and rural areas but for the whole of Sweden. For the Center Party it is obvious that people should be able to live and work throughout the country, and we have thought so for 110 years. Unfortunately, we still cannot say that there are equal conditions for living and living in all parts of the country. That is why we have pushed for the rural development programme, which is perhaps the main tool of national rural policy, not to be affected by cuts in the EU's long-term budget. We do this by providing an additional SEK 4.3 billion in national co-financing over two years until the new agricultural policy comes into force in 2023. This means that for 2021 and 2022 we have secured resources for the further development of rural areas, which is important for the competitiveness of agriculture as well as the environment and the development of rural areas. 4.3 billion or SEK 4,300 million. I would like to dwell a little on that figure, because in this kind of debate it is easy for the figures to pass by quickly. But it is thanks to this effort that we do not have to cut back on efforts that, for example, enable new investments in modern animal houses with high animal welfare standards and a good working environment. We do not have to cut back on start-up aid for new young farmers, something that was debated in this House just a few minutes ago. With many new young farmers, we bring an ageing farming community new ideas, new energy and new skills. There will be more grazing mules that keep our pastures free from sly and overgrown. There will be counselling efforts like Grapple the industry. We can continue to support the necessary investments in rural and sparsely populated farms. And local enthusiasts and associations are given the opportunity to develop their area according to their needs. In addition to the contribution to the rural development programme, the Center Party has been involved in providing food strategy with resources for a third action plan. In addition to subsidising the costs of trichinae analyses for all wild boars that are being pushed, the food strategy initiative includes a simplification package aimed at green industries. In concrete terms, the Swedish Food Safety Agency is now getting muscles to achieve a more equivalent food control and the Swedish Agency for Growth can continue its work in developing the permit testing. Today, the environmental permit process takes far too long and is complicated, making it an obstacle to the objectives of the national food strategy. The Center Party looks forward to being able to further strengthen efforts to achieve the objectives of the food strategy in future budget negotiations by enabling more competitive agriculture. Madam President, I would like If you come from West Sweden, it feels natural in every debate to at least highlight some example from the front of Sweden, and it is very exciting that happens there. Today, I will give just one example, namely aquaculture with land-based fish farming, which is one of the sectors of the future. Annie Lööf visited Sotenäs municipality this week, in this part of the country perhaps best known for parts of the municipality such as Smögen or Kungshamn, what do I know? But there are many exciting projects going on. It was, of course, a digital visit to coronatides. For many years there has been development work in the fishing industry together with the municipality and other actors, and now exciting investments are underway that provide both food and jobs. That's good. Unfortunately, the application periods for different types of permits here in Sweden are far too long. We really need to make a difference here in the future if we want to create the conditions for sustainable aquaculture. Madam President, I would like The real industries are a sector of the future, and it is extremely important that the supply of skills is secured in different ways in the future. On the one hand, it is important for the industry to feel that it has the right political and economic conditions for engaging in its sustainable business and that we do not turn our backs on the industry by suddenly withdrawing support or unnecessary administrative burdens. On the one hand, there needs to be a commitment from us consumers and a belief in the future in the industry. Therefore, it was particularly gratifying to take note of LRF's Green Business Index report the other day, which shows that four out of five agricultural and forestry industries feel more confident in the future. This is good, but we are fully aware that there are many challenges that we need to work on politically to both strengthen and make development more sustainable. As consumers, we make many choices when shopping, going to a restaurant or choosing catering. The real industries give us all the good things that we will soon find on the Christmas table: ham, kale, herring, potatoes, eggs, meatballs and beetroots. I can feel my mouth watering. Therefore, I hope that there are many of us who will choose Swedish, locally produced delicacies at Christmas. Finally, I wish the President, the members of the committee, the fantastic and competent officials of the Environment and Agriculture Committee's office, the audience and, perhaps, above all, all of you who provide us with food, Christmas tree and everything else we appreciate at Christmas time on a really nice Christmas holiday. I support the committee's proposal.
i-K4xZqHmZErL85GNz322Vzh	Madam President, I would like We are now debating Category 23 Areella industries, rural areas and food. I support the committee's proposal. For us Liberals, this area in the budget bill is as much about green industries as about environmental protection and climate policy. It's going to be possible to live in the whole country. The public service and infrastructure should work regardless of where in Sweden you choose to live. It is an issue of freedom that we Liberals are working hard for in other committees too, for example by investing in broadband and good communications. One part of the liberal policy is that it should be possible to run companies in the green industries. The state should manage its part through effective government work so that entrepreneurs can devote themselves to creating value out of the forest, land and sea. The second and equally important aspect of liberal policy is the responsible management of ecosystems and the importance of forests, soils and seas for climate change. Agriculture, forestry and fisheries must be carried out effectively, but it must also be carried out in such a way that it does not impoverish ecosystems. There is much more to be done here, because we need to develop sustainable ways of working. We Liberals believe that the state has an important role to play in developing these ways of working, but also in spreading the knowledge that already exists. At the same time, efforts to protect ecosystems must not be designed in such a way as to make agriculture, forestry, reindeer farming or fishing impossible. In cases where it is necessary to protect, for example, forest land in order to preserve high natural values, state forests shall be used for land changes. Where this is not possible, the landowner shall be compensated for the inoperability of the forest. Madam President, I would like We Liberals have ensured in the budget negotiations that substantial measures are put in place to take control of the wild boar tribe, and we are proud of that. The damage caused by wild boars must be reduced. Hunting but also the sale and distribution of wild boar meat is facilitated as the wild boar package is now strengthened. The problems of damage to the forest caused by the spruce bark drill continue to grow. Liberals have been working for a long time to give the authorities the opportunity to get to grips with the problems seriously. Therefore, we are pleased to have agreed with the Center Party and the Government to provide funds to the Forest Board to prevent damage to the forest, not only by the spruce bark but also by fires, storms and cloven-hoofed game. SLU also receives funds to set up a forest damage centre to increase knowledge about these injuries. Madam President, I would like The challenges facing forestry, agriculture, reindeer farming and the seas are largely caused by climate change. The work on forest damage is one way of alleviating the consequences that the industries have already suffered. Another is the research grants for plant breeding that SLU receives in the budget. Plant breeding has been an important tool in agriculture for thousands of years. Thanks to the breakthrough in genetic engineering, we now have much better opportunities than before to develop plants that are resistant to the effects of climate change. We should be proud that we have learned how to effectively modify the genome and promote the qualities needed. This is how it is on Nobel Day and with this year's prize in chemistry for the gene sax, it is of course extra fun to note that the budget highlights the important genetic modification in the grant to SLU. We will need all the tools we have to deal with the changes we will experience before we have stopped climate change. Madam President, I would like Forests, soils and the sea are extremely important both for climate action and for preserving biodiversity. The challenges of climate change are well known, but we often forget how important the issue of biodiversity is. We are losing species faster than ever before, and climate change is, unfortunately, increasing. In Sweden alone there are 5,696 red-listed species. About half of these are in the forest and half in the agricultural landscape, or I might say they should be there. Forestry and agriculture are the direct cause of many species being threatened. At the same time, it is the entrepreneurs in these sectors who are able to prevent more species from disappearing. In the climate, farmers and forest owners are also very important. Industry's own emissions need to be reduced, wetlands need to be restored, manure management needs to be changed and fossil fuels need to be replaced by fossil-free alternatives. But the forest and the ground also provide the opportunity to start taking back and absorbing carbon dioxide that we have already released. Madam President, I would like We Liberals believe that the state and also the EU's support for green industries should be used to replace entrepreneurs for the great benefits they make and can do both in the climate work and to halt the depletion of biodiversity. For us, it is an important principle that the polluter should pay, but just as important is that the one who cleans up after the sins of old be paid. Farmers, forestry, reindeer husbands and fishermen are not just entrepreneurs. They are our most important conservationists and often also all crucial for cultural conservation. They make great efforts for all of us and deserve our appreciation. I call for the committee's proposal to be approved again. Finally, I would like to wish both me and my Liberal colleague on the committee, Nina Lundström, Merry Christmas.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1313	Madam President, I would like Helena Gellerman talks about gene scissors C RISPR, among other things, and genetic modification. So did Ulrika Heie from the Center Party. This makes me happy, because it is an issue that is being given far too little attention. The difficulties that exist for plant breeding today stem not least from regulation in the EU, because that is where the major problems lie. It is regulated at EU level, and there are political locks that make it impossible to obtain approvals for growing new varieties. Gensax has been classified and regulated in the same way as GMOs. It also means that the gene sax, which makes much smaller and targeted changes and which knows exactly what the result is, will not become a reality in the EU with current rules, in practice. That was a question that was raised earlier last year. Then the Liberals, the Center Party, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats joined forces and demanded that the government act in Brussels to get the rules in order and renew them so that they become technology neutral and that they focus on what is risky and what is not, instead of what technology is used. This resulted in the Commission writing a report, which will be published in April. Now it turns out it's probably going to be a big yes. Then I wonder: Are the Liberals prepared to take the next step to enable genre editing to be used?
i-Mby1jt7JRY3ni54F82jUfY	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Staffan Eklöf, for the question! This with technology neutrality drives the Liberals in many different areas, so also in this area. As we see great risks from climate change and also want to be able to get more out of agriculture, such as larger crops, it is important that we can make genetic changes so that crops become more resilient. It is gratifying that the chemistry prize is now awarded to the gene scissors, which allow you to go in more surgically and find the parts of the genes that need to be replaced in order to make them more resilient. We have not changed our position. We were involved in the announcement, and we are in favour of continuing to pursue this issue. In view of climate change and the fact that it may get warmer and warmer in Sweden, we need to see what we can do to strengthen the crops that are good and easy to grow in Sweden. We are, of course, interested in continuing cooperation on gene manipulation.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1319	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the answer, Helena Gellerman! As Helena Gellerman said, the principle of technology neutrality is important in this area and also in other areas. This is a very important principle in, among other things, energy contexts. This makes it a focus on what makes a difference, not on what is less important in the context. I am therefore very pleased that the Liberals will continue to support the idea of technology neutrality.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1321	Madam President, I would like We are running this with technology neutrality in many different committees. For us, it's about the effect of things coming out, not how. We politicians should not say how and decide, but there are those who have considerably higher skills than we have in this area. V i is going to set the platform and say what we want to achieve. Then others will find out how and which technology is best suited to get to different steps.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1322	Madam President, I would like I should like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. We are in the midst of a pandemic, and we have major global challenges ahead of us with climate change and avoiding the sixth mass extinction of species. In a way, it is a positive sign that the sale of hot dogs is increasing due to the coronapandemine. Instead of being crowded in shopping centres and in gyms, many Swedes, thanks to the right of public access, go into the forest and land. We grill sausages, plant-based or meat. Being out in the forest gives us security, reduces the spread of infection and teaches us more about socializing with nature. Learning more about nature is the very basis for us to want to protect our forests. It's going to be necessary. The forest investigation proposal came last week and is the start of a broad and hopefully good discussion here in the Swedish parliament in the coming years. One proposal from the investigation is to protect 100 km of forest along the mountain chain. Not only is it good for nature, but it also creates the conditions for sustainable Swedish forest exports. The World Economic Forum has presented its Global Risks Report for 2020, and for the first time in history it shows that environmental considerations dominate the highest long-term risks to business. Failure in climate change change and adaptation are first in place – the main risk – and the second most significant risk is loss of biodiversity. They say that the current rate of extinction is tens to hundreds of times higher than the average over the last 10 million years, that it is accelerating and that the loss of biodiversity has critical consequences for humanity by the collapse of food and health systems and entire supply chains. I would like to say that the conditions for business and society will be radically changed by the risk assessment. The requirements for Sweden to be able to meet environmental objectives will increase. We have a good starting position in Sweden, and the knowledge that investments in biodiversity in forestry and agriculture are an opportunity and not a threat must have an impact in the forest industry's board rooms, in organisations such as the LRF and among all parties here in Parliament. The forestry industry accounts for about 10 per cent of Sweden's total goods exports and creates jobs and economic development throughout the country. Forests must be managed in a sustainable manner. Research, IPbes, describes that depletion of biodiversity and ecosystems directly undermines the ability to reach 35 of the 44 global sustainable development goals, related to a wide range of areas, including the climate target. Forests play an important role in climate action, a growing circular bioeconomy and a role in sustainable development, as well as in biodiversity and social values. In the state budget, it is black and white: a rise in the annual level of fellings in recent decades has been seen and has been increasingly close to annual growth available for felling. At the same time, future demand for Swedish biomass is expected to increase sharply as the transition to a more circular and bio-based economy. How does math go together? It is only when the bioeconomy develops wisely with regard to the impact on carbon sinks and biodiversity that it will be possible to meet the climate targets. Housekeeping, efficiency and resource efficiency must become step one. The forest will offer substitute products to the oil economy but also biodiversity that creates the opportunity to reach the climate targets. Madam President, I would like It is difficult to get a complete overview of how the coronapandemine affects the food sector. There are success stories, such as sausages, and there are disasters for many individual entrepreneurs. I recently visited a food business operator in Vännäsby who said: We have seen countless colleagues around the world forced to close down. I don't just keep my fingers crossed because as many food companies as possible, especially restaurants and suppliers to restaurants, are able to overwinter the coronapandemine. Food companies are an engine for Swedish food. They're important. One very important thing that we are now getting is the UTP Directive, which is to be introduced in Sweden and protect food companies from unfair trading practices. Madam President, I would like It is time to see what presents the budget contains. A Christmas present in the budget is locally grown. Eldrimner National Resource Centre for food trades receives SEK 10 million. I'm particularly proud of that bet. Another Christmas present is organic. SEK 25 million per year is given to the coordination function for organic food to ensure opportunities for exports of organic food and market development. The ecological package gives us a plethora of biodiversity, reduced pesticide application, more climate benefits and open landscapes, which largely underpin our country's gastronomic development. There are many more small and large Christmas gifts, including a farmer's package, for a still powerful rural programme. There is an animal welfare package that meets the high intentions of the Animal Welfare Act. On behalf of the Green Party, we hope that this means that the Swedish Board of Agriculture will finally assume its responsibilities and change the regulations for mink keeping, which needs to be phased out. There is a Christmas present for all countries in the world with advice from Sweden to reduce the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry globally. This is where we lead. The interventions should reduce the risk of antibiotic resistance. There's a package to use in the event of a crisis. The security of food and drinking water supply is now becoming important elements in a resilient civil defence. There is a fishing package that includes measures to reduce bottom trawling and build up cod stocks in the Baltic Sea and strengthen fisheries control. There will be a pat with more close to nature jobs at many authorities around Sweden. All these presents last for many years. You may have heard, and the President may have heard, that according to trade, it is a storm kitchen to use on the excursion that is this year's Christmas present. I can tell my dear colleagues in the Environment and Agriculture Committee that the best New Year's resolution is to be out in nature much more. Madam President, I would like I've gone over time. I would also have liked to have said quite a lot about rural development and how important it is to have a coherent rural policy for the whole country, but I will end here. I wish you a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year to the Speaker, to all parliamentary staff, to the MJU Office and to all my colleagues.
i-4JqGKFvtv1UW8srHSR3Vty	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for an interesting speech. First of all, I thought I'd focus on the woods. A number of international reports on biodiversity and the problem were highlighted. It would be interesting to hear about the Green Party and the government think that today we have major problems with managing the biodiversity of Swedish forests with Swedish forestry. We can see figures that almost no species have disappeared from the Swedish forest since we introduced yoghurt farming. The species that have disappeared can in principle be counted on one hand, and a number of new species have been added. We also know that the curves for several of the parameters with which we usually measure biodiversity – the amount of dead wood, the amount of deciduous trees, the amount of coarse deciduous trees, the number of birds – are moving in the right direction since the new Forest Protection Act was introduced in 1993. The Green Party is talking here about the amount of protected area and about continuing to protect mountain areas. Are there any limits to how much you want to protect? How much should we take out of production? On the part of the Moderates we have said that we probably do not need to take more land out of production because it is more important to care for the natural values we have protected by adding funds to it than to take more land out of production. Is there, in fact, a suspicion that forest owners themselves could take care of the natural values by retaining the right of decision and the right of disposal over their land? They're the ones who've been building up these natural values for a long time. Today, a farmer or forest owner may be afraid to produce something similar to what soon disappears as a concept, a key biotope, for then someone might put a dead hand over it. I believe that many forest owners rather want to develop these natural values, but they want to continue to be in charge of them. It would be nice to hear about this from the Green Party.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1359	Madam President, I would like I thank you for a long and comprehensive question from John Widegren. Initially, the reports that I also mentioned were mentioned in my speech. I think there are some reports that are particularly important to understand in relation to forests, biodiversity and climate. There is a report from SMHI and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that together shows how the two large scientific collections, both IPCC and Ipbes, look at the knowledge of climate and biodiversity. That report is new and very readable – Christmas reading, even. There is another report from the Swedish Forest Agency on climate adaptation in forestry. It is also an important report that I think many people benefit from reading. With regard to the Green Party's attitude to forests, it is well known that it is extremely important to save the old forest and the valuable forests that really have huge natural values. It is also important, says the Green Party, to ensure that the small individual forest owners receive the support they need to carry out conservation work that allows them to sell their forest to the timber buyers who require biodiversity. I think that will be much more important. The small forest owners know their land, but it is not certain that they know all the endangered species.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1366	Madam President, I would like Actually, I'm going to jump to something completely different now that this is the last chance I get here tonight. It's about food waste. We've talked about it before, but I'd like to talk about food waste in a slightly different way than before – about our slaughterhouses and our abattoirs and how to assess carcasses and animals entering the slaughterhouses. For example, I have received signals that today we have a greater discard of Swedish broilers than we have in Denmark, for example. I don't think we have worse animals here than they have in Denmark. From the Moderates' side, we have made an effort in the budget to get a more legal and even assessment of our inspection veterans. Because it can lead to a huge waste of food if we have an uneven assessment. Would the Green Party and Maria Gardfjell perhaps want to problematise a little about this?
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1371	Madam President, I would like Of course, the issue of veterinarians is quite complex. We have a shortage of veterinarians, there is a need for veterinarians to be available and so on. But I think that the most important thing in terms of food waste and slaughterhouses is that we must take care of all that animals give: skin, meat and, of course, milk. The more you can use an animal, the less climate impact actually becomes. But the climate impact is not just due to the number of pounds of meat. Agriculture produces more. It is also about biodiversity, worms in the soil and all that it is. So we need to broaden the picture of how climate impact is to be measured.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1374	Madam President and Maria Gardfjell! Maria Gardfjell is talking about the sixth mass extermination. I understand that biodiversity is declining everywhere. This is one of the arguments for biodiversity measures in Sweden. Among other things, large reserves will be set aside in Swedish forests. My question is: on what basis does Maria Gardfjell conclude that there is a sixth mass extermination? Where does this data come from? Conclusions on global trends require very large data collections. I am not interested in which articles refer to those who have produced data but from where they come from. What is the basis of Maria Gardfjell's conclusions that there is a sixth mass extermination going on? It's quite alarming, and it's important that you know it's true, I'm thinking.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1377	Madam President, I would like The most important overall report is Ipbe's major report on overall research in the field of biodiversity. It is important to read about this. With regard to the eradication of species and these issues, it is of course extremely important to remember that apples and pears cannot be compared. An important mistake that is sometimes made in the political debate is that it is said that some species are increasing and others are decreasing, and that is how it is treated. But one cannot compare an endangered species that is on the Red List with an invasive species that is increasing in numbers in Sweden. Unfortunately, this is being done a little now and then in this debate. It is very important to remember that when protecting nature, we must protect nature types that are a little rare and individual species, and connected areas so that the areas are connected and the species can move and develop genetic diversity. This issue of genetic diversity is an important one that we had in the debate on protection hunting on wolves, where the Swedish Democrats and other parties, among other things, felt that genetic diversity was not so important.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1380	Madam President, I would like What you normally refer to is WWF's initiative plant life index; WWF is at least involved in it and uses it. It's about taking huge amounts of data – 8% of the world's animal populations have been measured. It's a huge task. A global average has been developed and there is indeed a decrease in populations. But now, in part, the same researchers have done a deeper statistical analysis. It came on 18 November in Nature. Only 2% of the population is reduced; 98% of the population is stable. Major regional differences exist. The conclusion is the same as the Swedish Democrats have drawn in the past: the measures must be taken where they are needed and adapted to the species affected. This will provide effective measures. One size doesn 中 t fit all.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1383	Madam President, I would like We can see that this issue of endangered species is a very important one at all. One area where there is a great impact is precisely land use in agriculture and forestry. If we look at agriculture, we can see that organic farming has great advantages for species. For example, a large international scientific report from Holland shows that organic farming has an average of 50% higher species wealth in plants and pollinators. This is important, and it is due, among other things, to the use of much less pesticides.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1385	Madam President, I would like Since John Widegren thought we should be here long and well, I thought I might take this opportunity. I appreciate John being here for a long time and listening to this. This very long day for us may end a little more positively. Although it was an important subject that was raised in the last line shift, it was with some suspicion that it was discussed. That is why I would like to focus instead on an area which both Maria Gardfjell and I have touched on in the debate, namely the roll call Big enough. I understood that in her speech she also referred to Eldrimner and the work they do. They also have a very clear focus on the small-scale and local food craft, which is also very close to my heart. I would like to take this opportunity to ask Mrs Maria how the Green Party, but perhaps also the government, intends to continue in the future to perhaps further promote local and small-scale agriculture and the local food trade.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1388	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elin Segerlind, for the question! It was very close that the investment made on Eldrimner since the early 2000s ended abruptly now. But that was not the case, because the Green Party and certainly some other party among the four who work with the state budget felt that this should not end. Developments in the food sector and food processing are very important for the profitability of Swedish agriculture. But it is also important for the gastronomic diversity and incredibly important for us to get Swedish food on our plates. We do not buy raw materials, but we buy finished products. Although we may think that we are buying raw materials, such as wheat flour or beans, they must be dried, ground and all that is, and then the food industry is needed. And if we're gonna get some local food, we need local food producers. The food companies that grow the strongest in Sweden are small, and now, under the coronapandemine, they have grown even stronger due to the fact that many of the small, local food tradesmen can also sell their products directly to consumers through records and such channels.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1391	Madam President, I would like Personally, I was very happy when I saw the roll call Big enough. This is fully in line with what we need to develop Swedish agriculture. As I mentioned in my speech, we see a problem with farms growing but becoming fewer in number. At the same time, I also see the development mentioned here by Mrs Maria, with an increased interest in the local and also the locally produced, where, among other things, the records have played a major role. I am thinking about what the honourable Member thinks the government can do to promote roll-calls like Big enough and other similar initiatives and make them feel the confidence in the future that they need to continue.
i-ef767b9c337eeae1-1394	Madam President, I would like In the food strategy, we need to put more focus on getting more farmers and small farmers in Sweden and not working so hard to structure rationalize more. We really need to value the fact that we have more companies in this sector. I think that is the most important thing. Then we also need to ensure that the aid we receive from the European Union can also be used by smaller farmers. One area I have specifically pointed out is vegetable cultivation. In Finland, a very large proportion of the vegetables sold are actually grown in Finland, although Finland is a fairly northern country compared to Sweden. This is where we're way behind. We can really ask ourselves what we can learn from Finland in order for our gardening to grow in Sweden. There may also be a lot of smaller players that are needed.
