i-329a307bf20ac4ad-18	Madam President, I would like Mr Arin has asked me whether I am prepared to take the initiative to make four changes to labour immigration. It is about stopping the labour migration of personal assistants, banning the replacement of tracks, raising wage requirements and the supply requirements for family members. First of all, I take very seriously the fact that the system of labour immigration is being used. The Government has commissioned a special investigator to identify the extent to which the regulatory framework is used for various forms of abuse and propose measures. The investigator will investigate, among other things, whether so-called circular permits, where the family member's residence permit is dependent on the labour immigrant's condition while the employment of the labour immigrant depends on the family member's right to reside in Sweden, are used for organised abuse. The assignment also includes deciding whether intentional proceedings involving persons entering Sweden using a residence permit issued on incorrect information must be punishable. The legal framework for family members of migrant workers is relatively generous, and it is questionable whether it is reasonable for that group to be treated more favourably than those applying for a residence permit in accordance with the general rules applicable to family immigration. The investigation should therefore consider whether to introduce a dependency requirement for family members of labour immigrants. Such a requirement would, of course, affect the income requirement for a work permit if there are accompanying family members. The report will be presented in an interim report no later than 1 February next year and the other parts no later than 1 November next year. With regard to the question of the change of track, I would like to remind you that this is a regime introduced by the previous alliance government. The main rule is that residence and work permits must be granted before a person enters Sweden. It is important to maintain regulated immigration. Sometimes there are good reasons to make exceptions to the general rule, for example under certain conditions if a person is established in the labour market. I therefore see no reason to take any action on this issue.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-22	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Migration for his answer. Madam President, I would like Earlier today in Ekot we could hear how people who come to Sweden are exposed to regular human trafficking and exploited. We have problems with current legislation. I want this debate not to be about who did what 5, 10 or 15 years ago. There is no government that puts forward 100% legislation over a full term of office. We Moderates have realised that the legislation we developed in government did not fully work. Then you have to be humble about what works, it works, and what doesn't work, you have to change. Then we've come to four things. We see how the track change is used to exploit people. The Ukrainian example is very clear. We want to impose supply requirements if you bring your relatives here. We believe that that obligation and duty lie with the person who chooses to bring his or her relatives here. We also want to see increased wage demands, both in order to reduce the risk of exploitation and not to bring a certain type of immigration to low-wage jobs. The fourth is an example that is different from today's legislation, where we say, among other things, no to be able to include personal assistants as labour immigrants. There we have seen another abuse, usually that you bring a loved one here, that someone comes to Sweden to take care of a related relative etcetera. These four points have been expressed by the Minister for Migration that he is prepared to implement. The problem is that the January agreement on which the government rests states very clearly that current legislation should remain and be protected. Instead of removing the track change, you want to loosen the track change. It is usually the case that the Minister for Migration says a lot but that very little happens. These are four proposals that can be examined in committee and in this House. Is the Minister of Migration prepared to come to Parliament with a proposal to the committee to consider these four proposals, i.e. get the Moderates and several other parties to tighten this up and close the gaps that exist to prevent human trafficking and exploitation, but also to put order in the Swedish labour market?
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-28	Madam President, I would like I understand that Mr Arin does not want this debate to be about what it was like in the past. I also understand that the Moderates are trying to catch up with this debate in different ways. This is just another example of all the failed moderate reforms. They're getting pretty many now. Take the entire free school reform, which led to grade inflation, to segregation and to the groups cutting gold with a numeral knife. Now we see a swing. You can no longer stand for it either. It was also a failed reform. Take the EBO legislation, which you introduced 25 years ago. Now you distance yourself from that. You did not abolish it during the time when you were able to do so. We have been critical since the very beginning. There you turn now in opposition and suddenly think that you no longer want and can stand up for it. Then there are these laws. My predecessor Tobias Billström carried out two major projects during his time. One was that he implemented the most generous asylum legislation across the EU. It then led to the refugee crisis in 2015 and a situation in which Sweden received 12% of all asylum seekers who came to the EU – 163 000 came in 2015. That was the effect of exactly the policy that you had pursued. This we had to clean up, which we did with austerity in 2015 and 2016. Since then, the number of asylum seekers has fallen by 90%. Now we no longer accept 12% of all asylum seekers who come to the EU, but now the figure is about 3%. The share has thus also decreased. The Labour Immigration Reform came ten years ago. The Moderates pushed through the world's most generous labour immigration rules. You abolished the labour market trial. You did not set a salary threshold, but the effective wage threshold is that for social security benefits, i.e. SEK 13 000 a month. You introduced the possibility of labour migration for part-time and not just full-time. Sweden thus became the only country in the world that has labour migration also for occupations where we have no shortage. All other countries have labour migrations to exemp electricity technicians, civil engineers and doctors, but not Sweden, but Sweden also has labour migration for dishwashers, cleaners, window cleaners and personal assistants. That was the very essence of the Moderate Reform. Today we are in a position where over 60% of all labour migration is low-skilled – not highly skilled, but low-skilled. This leads to exploitation. I believe that bourgeois politicians often underestimate the class aspect of this. It is one thing to come to Sweden and work as an engineer, economist or doctor in a deficiency situation. Then you will be well cared for by your company. But when you come here as a dishwasher, cleaner or window cleaner – especially in an environment where there are already 450 000 unemployed, as in Sweden – you will easily be replaceable. You can easily find yourself in a situation where you are used by employers and have to work for 30 SEK an hour and live in a basement. This is exactly what we've seen. What you did was a commissioned work from the employers who want it that way and who want to be able to use employees. In addition, we have seen that this leads to cheating and falsification with work permits and to milking tax money out of the systems. This is now under investigation, and we have appointed a special investigator to see what you can do about it. Just the points raised by Mr Arin in this investigation are concerned: the supply requirements for relatives, the full-time and part-time issue, which means raising the wage threshold and also efforts towards trade in work permits. I am receiving a partial report as early as February.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-38	Madam President, I would like I have had the opportunity on several occasions to interpel, to ask questions and to debate with the Minister for Migration, and it will always be a turn back to what happened 5, 10 or 15 years ago. It's like a marriage where you don't get anywhere- now we're not in such a relationship, but you keep turning back the clock and looking at what happened then and saying your e n and that e n n. I'm not interested in that. I am starting from what the reality is today and how we can ensure that we overcome the problems we have. Yes, I'm humble and confess to being wrong. But we must also remember which Sweden we lived in. Sometimes it sounds like the Social Democrats have been the biggest reformer of Swedish politics. But it has always been no, no and no, and you have always been behind in development so that someone else has to push. Perhaps it is our Swedish culture that makes it always have to stand up in our throats before we get our thumbs out and do something – in all sectors. Sweden was not as open in the 80s and 90s as it is today. You could hardly get to Sweden as a labour immigrant at the time. It was very difficult. In terms of immigration, one consisted essentially only of asylum immigration. Then they loosened up and liberalized very strongly, and now they have to correct it. Now there is a will to remove the possibility of track change. Instead, the Commission's directive has instructed the investigator to look at the possibility of loosening this up. We want to introduce supply requirements for family immigration, increased wage requirements, full-time requirements and a stop for personal assistants to be able to come to Sweden as labour immigrants. We support this. Put the proposal on the table and we can vote it through! Among other things, the Minister for Migration has said that Ukraine might be on the list of safe countries. But it's not safe. Ukraine can be considered a country that is not sufficiently safe. There are three countries, according to the European Commission, that have set up Ukraine as a safe country, and that is the UK, Luxembourg and Bulgaria. We will not get to these problems unless we remove the possibility of track change. I understand that we are from two different parties, and both claim government power, but in every debate we may not have to go into the conflicts about who did what, but let us fix these problems instead. Let's get on with it sometime! I do not see that will on the part of the Minister for Migration. As Minister of Migration, consideration must be given to the Center Party and the Liberals, and you have reached an agreement with them that current legislation should be protected and maintained. The directives to the investigator also include looking at the possibility of loosening the possibility of a change of track. Is that the Green Party's will? Yeah. It is not the Moderates who have entered into a strange January agreement, where concessions must be made to three smaller parties which are completely different from each other and which are based more on ideals than reality. My question to the Minister for Migration is: Is the Minister for Migration prepared to come to this House with the four proposals on which I have intervened?
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-46	Madam President, I would like I have set up the investigation to clean up the system that you carried out. It'll be parody, may I say, that the Moderates created this, and now you stand, Arin Karapet, barking at me because I don't abolish it fast enough. That's the situation. Why did this happen at all? I think you need to think a little bit more about it. Why was labour immigration released so completely with an ultra-liberal system as the Moderates did ten years ago? I simply believe that there were economic reasons. The employers' side was listened to completely. The employer side wanted to have access to cheap labour that you could drive with a little as you wanted and could threaten and say: If you join the union you will not be able to remain in this country, and if you complain about the working environment you will not be able to remain in this country. That is exactly how we have seen that developments have been in these years. We've taken action. Among other things, we have increased the possibilities for workplace inspections so that the police can now go into the workplace in a completely different way than before, especially in the restaurant and construction industry where we know that there is a lot of cheating and falsification going on. We have also doubled the penalties for employers who use illegal labour, and we have given special assignments to the authorities that work with this, under the direction of the Swedish Work Environment Authority, to increase pressure on the employers that use the system. The basic problem is that the Moderates introduced a system where we have labour migration also for those professions where there is no shortage, such as cleaners, dishwashers and window cleaners. Mr Arin talks about personal assistants, and I wonder: why is it only that category that you mean should not be covered by labour immigration? Let's talk about another category: cleaners. We have cleaners who come from Mongolia, and this is a category that is widely used in the Swedish labour market. What reason is there for having labour immigration for cleaners from Mongolia? I can only imagine three reasons. The first is that you want to get a relative here. The second is that the employer has been paid – i.e. trade in work permits – for him to offer a job here so that you can come to Sweden. The third reason is that, as I said, the employer wants someone who can be allowed to work practically around the clock under completely unworthy conditions. That is three reasons, but none of them are particularly acceptable, in my view. What I am saying is that we are going to do this not just about personal assistants, but about much broader categories of staff. The investigator has to review, among other things, the supply requirement for relatives. In this way you can get to some of the cheating with the personal assistants, i.e. the circular states that we talked about, that is, when a family comes here and there is a child in the family, for example, who is disabled. Then you suddenly get a market for additional personal assistants, and then you can bring their families here, and hopefully, according to their way of seeing it, you can still get personal assistance for someone else. That's how this circle has turned. If you impose a supply requirement, you stop that circle. As I said, we will have an interim report on 1 February. However, I think we need to go further and look at the issue of full-time and part-time work. We must also look at the issue of the wage threshold. Today it is 13,000 kroner. It must, of course, be raised. We Social Democrats have been against this from the beginning. We warned against this very thing. That's the way it happened. We're right in every prediction. I'm determined to clean up this system. But I'm getting a little tired of having to clean up after the Moderates every time when it comes to reforms that they have implemented and that have then turned out to be completely ill-considered.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-61	Madam President, I would like I would like to remind the Minister for Migration that this country has been governed by the Social Democrats for the last six years. Now you get to grips with this. But at the Minister for Migration, it sounds like this was the most important reform the Social Democrats would implement as soon as they took over power in 2014. Six years later the snowball starts rolling. What has been done in the last six years? Madam President, I would like This is always the case; a moderate minister of migration or justice would also have to clean up after his predecessor. Again, why don't you come forward with a sharp proposal to remove track changes and demands for full time, Morgan Johansson? There may also be other occupational groups which, as for personal assistants, could be covered by a 'no' to the inclusion of migrant workers. But let's start there! Madam President, I would like I have a wish that these debates should not be about who did what five ten years ago. I wasn't in politics at the time. I am also humble and aware that I, like everyone else, will make wrong decisions and good decisions. Now we have concrete problems in the labour market. We need to remove the possibility of track change, impose supply requirements on family immigration and full-time requirements. We need to get the labour market in order. One proposal for a solution is to remove the possibility of submitting an employment offer. Instead, it should be employment contracts, so that it is legally valid. If the employee has been used by the employer, you must also be able to process it in a court and get the right on your side.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-66	Madam President, I would like Track change is not the main problem. It is not mainly where the cheating takes place. In addition, track changes are decreasing now. There has been a decrease from 2018 to 2019 of over 20 percent. This is also due to shorter processing times at the Migration Agency. As a result, it will be less time to work during the asylum period, thereby reducing the possibilities for a change of track. But that is not the main problem. Track changes are also not the main problem with regard to the Ukrainian case. This can be taken care of by putting Ukraine on a safe country list, so that it is possible to separate and fast-track those applications. As far as asylum applications from Ukraine are concerned, the granting rate today is around 1%. It is a country where there is no general persecution. It is the Finnish Immigration Service that decides what the list should look like. I would just point out that putting a country on the safe countries list also reduces the risk of the kind of cheating that we have seen in that part. Why have we not done anything on this issue in these six years? First of all, the Social Democrats voted against the reform that you pushed through ten years ago, Mr Arin. We have constantly criticized it, and we have been right in our predictions. For a long time it was only the Social Democracy and the trade union movement that highlighted it while it was defended from all other directions. Now it's a different situation. There was a report from 12 authorities working against organized crime saying that this is a huge problem. The other day there was a report from the Swedish National Audit Office saying exactly the same thing. There is now a completely different pressure. We also see that the parties that have defended it are beginning to change their minds, which is a good thing. So now there is political pressure and a political opportunity to do something about it. I will take that opportunity, Madam President. I am determined to try to clean up this system, too, with all the means at my disposal.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-72	Madam President, I would like Lars Hjälmered has asked me when the government intends to take decisions on possible mining in Kallak and Laver and how I view the Constitutional Committee's criticism that the government has not taken any measures to enable decisions on processing concession in Kallak. Finally, Lars Helmered has asked me how I assess that delays in permit cases affect Sweden's reputation as a mining nation and company's willingness to invest in Sweden. The criticism that the Constitutional Committee has highlighted on the Kallak issue meant that no apparent procedural measures were taken for a long time. The preparation of a case covers both visible procedural measures and procedural elements which are not necessarily reflected in incoming and outgoing letters. These may include internal legal analyses, considerations and assessments. The preparation of a case requires, inter alia, a final analysis of all the circumstances. Government matters falling within the sphere of activity of several departments shall also be prepared in consultation with the other ministers concerned. Madam President, I would like The cases concerning the processing concessions applied for for in the Kallak K No 1 areas in Jokkmokk municipality and Laver K No 1 in Älvsbyn municipality contain extensive documentation with complex issues affecting several different public interests. All of this affects the time needed at different stages of the preparation of administrative matters, including the matter that the Constitutional Committee has highlighted in the review in question. On 3 November 2020 the UNESCO World Heritage Centre was also given the opportunity to comment on the submitted processing concession Kallak K No 1 and the possible impact on the world heritage Laponia. The starting point for the government's handling is always that it should be done quickly, efficiently and without the legal certainty being respected. As several interests are affected by the forthcoming government decisions on processing concessions, it is of great importance that the government evaluates matters from all aspects and ensures that decisions are taken after proper processing. When the government considers that the cases are sufficiently prepared, it will also take decisions in these. At present, I cannot comment further on the current preparations. Madam President, I would like Swedish mining and mineral industries are of great importance to Sweden as a country, in the regional and local perspective and beyond Sweden's borders. It is about jobs, wealth and the extraction of minerals and metals that are important for a green transition and to ensure a good and healthy environment, nationally and globally. Sweden will continue to be a leading country in the mineral industry in terms of sustainable development, and we will continue to welcome investments in our country.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-77	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for the opportunity to debate the important mining and mineral issues! In Kallak and Laver in Norrbotten, two companies have applied to start mining operations. I think that the question of Kallak and Laver sums up very well how the mining issues in Sweden are right now. At the bottom there is a great need for metals and minerals. This is important for both our economy and our environment. The question also points out that Sweden has unwelcomely long processing times when requesting a permit. It also shows shortcomings in the Government Office, where it takes a long time for the Minister for Economic Affairs to come to a decision. This means that Sweden and Europe, everything else equal, must not take part of the metals and minerals you so badly need, not least for the green transition. There is also a risk that jobs will be lost in localities around Sweden. Madam President, I would like In the Laver case, Boliden is planning a major mining project to take up copper ore in the municipality of Älvsbyn. It's been a long time. Earlier this year the bakery Polarbröd in Älvsbyn burned down. It was a terrible event. Shortly after this, the municipal council chairman of Älvsbyn, Social Democrat Tomas Egmark, chose to appeal to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Prime Minister to say yes to Boliden's Lavermine. Egmark stated very aptly that a mine cannot be in place immediately and that it is not certain that those who today are bakers tomorrow can be miners. However, it can, he said, provide many important jobs and confidence in the future in Älvsbyn municipality. My first question to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Madam President, is: Does the Minister share his party colleague's view of the importance of the Laver mine for Älvsbyn, Norrbotten and Sweden? In Kallak, there is talk of an iron ore mine just outside Jokkmokk. The Minister for Industry has had a completed application on his table for three and a half years. On 6 December last year, it had been on the Minister's table for two and a half years. I asked when decisions would come. However, the Minister for Industry replied that the starting point for the administration is always that it should be done quickly, effectively and without the rule of law being respected. Six months later, when it had been three years, I asked the minister again. Then he said, "I cannot at present comment on when the cases are sufficiently prepared to enable decisions to be taken. ..................................................... In addition, during the year, Madam President, the Constitutional Committee has examined Ibrahim Baylan and the handling of the so-called Kallak case and given what may be called stinging criticism. It has been noted that the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Government has not taken any visible action on the matter for three years. In the answer I have now received, Ibrahim Baylan claims that there are no visible activities. But obviously there is something invisible that he and the government have otherwise done. I must say, Madam President, that it does not sound like anything but an afterthought. Of course, if the Minister of Economic Affairs' statement had been right, he and the government would have been able to hand over information to the Constitutional Committee under secrecy. It could have been shown if an authority had been given a commission. It could have been demonstrated that the Minister of Economic Affairs and others had had meetings or other activities. The truth is that nothing has been done on this matter. This means that the applicant company doesn't know what's going on. Even all the critics – there are many of them in Jokkmokk – who do not want a mine standing and waiting. People who want a job in the mine are waiting. This, of course, also affects Sweden's reputation as a mining nation. I repeat the second question in the interpellation to the Minister for Economic Affairs: when do he and the government intend to make a decision? It has now been three and a half years. How long should you have to wait in Sweden to get a mining permit?
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-87	Madam President, I would like I understand, of course, that an important part of being in opposition is to critically review the government and also try to take party political points so that at some point the voter's confidence can be gained into a government itself. Once you do, a number of things happen. Well, that's not enough. A government has to deal with a large number of interests. There is also a law to consider. Let us begin in turn, Madam President. First, we take the issue of the mining industry and its development in our country. I believe that the mining industry has never gone better in our country than it is today, at least not in modern times. I don't think we've ever seen the husband. We talk hundreds of billions that are planned to invest in the mining industry in Sweden. I think it's good for a number of reasons. It is important for jobs and growth in our country. The mining industry in our country is also at the forefront of sustainable mining, and it is much-needed the gods should know. Unfortunately, there are far too many examples of unsustainable mining in the world. From time to time, we read in the newspapers and the media about the use of child labour, pollution of rivers or exploitation of their employees. I am therefore pleased that these investment plans exist and that there are major plans to expand mining activities in our country. Nevertheless, I am aware that our present state of affairs process requires a review, because it is far too unpredictable. However, I have not heard from the mining companies that they do not want the demands we are making today with regard to sustainability, environmental considerations, respect for indigenous peoples' rights and so on. On the other hand, they require a more predictable regulatory framework, and I share this view. Madam President, I would like My hope was that during the year we could have asked an investigator to review this. Unfortunately, we have been very busy with a pandemic since March both at the Ministry of Industry and in society. It has hit very hard not least life and health but also business. Much of the Ministry's work has been to try to save as much of the Swedish business community as possible. I think that both me and Lars Helmered think it has been a real priority in the short term. In the long term, of course, we must continue to work on these issues in the long term. Madam President, I would like I got a question about Älvsbyn. I hope and believe that Polarbröd will return, and I hope Lars Helmered shares my hope that there will continue to be jobs and development there. The owners and the municipality are in on it, and I hope it will become a reality. Regarding the two mining cases, Lars Helmered said that the Minister for Economic Affairs does not make a decision. However, it is not that simple. A government makes collective decisions. The cases are being prepared, and a large number of interests must then be weighed against each other. Let me take an example. The question of Kallak and the proximity to Laponia is not as simple as it sounds. We must ensure that the matter is prepared as carefully as possible so that we do not end up in a legal process in which the government's decision is annulled. It is against this background and because of the proximity to a World Heritage Site that we have sent the matter to UNESCO so that we can have an opinion and then go to a decision.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-96	Madam President, I would like The main problem with Kallak and Laver is the fact that the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Government does not make decisions. That's what it's all about. For three and a half years, a completed mining project has been on the table of the Minister for Economic Affairs and the former Minister for Economic Affairs pending a decision. We are happy to talk about changes in the licensing processes for the mining industry with the maintenance of the environmental requirements. We need to cut the processing times properly in order to take advantage of the opportunities available. I believe that in the future there are huge opportunities for economics, jobs and development. Just look at the plans at LKAB, the companies we are talking about here and others! We also know that this is crucial for the green changeover. What we pick out of the earth is needed when we build and develop society. It is needed for renewable energy and a wide range of other things. Sweden and Europe need additional access to important metals and minerals, where Sweden can contribute. Then we can't have processes that stop this. At the heart of this case, however, is that we have complete dossiers. It is not just the Moderates who say so, Madam President. During the year a call was made in the newspaper Dagens Industri when there was sharp criticism of the government from leaders in the mining and mineral industry. They did not feel that the government took the problems of long times in the permit process seriously. Madam President, I would like I never said it's easy to decide whether or not to become a mine in Kallak or Laver. I am the first to see that important considerations need to be made. It becomes a little problematic when the Constitutional Committee notes that the government has not done anything in three years on the matter. Then it won't last. If you had already worked actively a few years ago and perhaps sent the paper about Laponia that you have written and that the company has now responded to, you could have taken the process forward. The problem is that the case has been on the government's table for years. I share the minister's view and hope that Polarbröd can restart in Älvsbyn. However, the question for the day was whether the Minister for Economic Affairs shares the view of the Social Democratic Chairman of the Municipal Council on the importance of getting the Laver mine in place. It means a lot to them, to Norrbotten and to Sweden. In the Kallak case, you can be both for and against. I think the whole thing is deeply problematic. In Jokkmokk's municipality there are lots of people hoping for a job in the mine. They will now have to wait and look at other career plans. There are also many people who absolutely do not want a mine in Kallak. A number of them have literally stood outside the Parliament House. They also wonder why a decision cannot be made. Madam President, I would like I think we are in the worst situation you could be in. An important, large industrial project is being stopped. This is not because it needs to be prepared in some other way, but because of an inability of the government. This means that both those who are in favour and those who are against stand and wait in limbo. This affects Sweden as a mining nation. Unfortunately, we have lost in the international mine ranking. I am very sorry about this. It's been said before. The Minister for Industry was at the beginning of the year at the large mining congress and conference in Canada and welcomed investments to Sweden. I think that is wise, and that is part of the job description of that minister. The problem is that mining companies can then conclude that there is a bit of a false echo and a bit of crusting when at the same time there are matters like Kallak and Laver, where the same minister does not come to the conclusion. One does not feel that he addresses the long-term issues of reviewing the important condition processes. There is an investigation now, but there you look at so-called C-cases, the smallest cases, not the biggest mining projects, which most probably agree will be relevant. When will the decision on Kallak be made? Do you share this vision? What will happen in the future?
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-107	Madam President, I would like It sounds very much from Lars Helmered. Take the example of KU! If the KU had asked, there would also have been answers to the measures taken during the year. We've met the company from the Ministry of Enterprise. We have met a Sami village and representatives of the Sami people, who are also affected by this. We've been in contact with the county. We have also met property owners who have properties nearby. Madam President, I would like When you do this properly it becomes clear that it is not that simple. There are conflicting interests. Moreover, when case law changes in the meantime, it means that you have to work more on this, so that it becomes a legally secure decision once it is made. It is against this background that we are forwarding this matter to UNESCO so that we can get their views and then go to a decision. Then it is ready, and then my assessment is that the decision taken by the government is legally valid. I think it would be absolutely the worst if this government were to make a decision that does not agree, and I think Lars Hjälmered basically agrees with that. But I predict that it will be challenged in a legal process almost whatever decision the government makes. Madam President, I would like If this were as simple as it sounds on Lars Helmered, we would of course have made decisions a long time ago. But it's not that simple. One example of the complexity of the mining industry in the northern part of the country is the decision that came from the United Nations Committee against Racial Discrimination only ten days ago about an existing mine. There Sweden was criticised for not having listened sufficiently to the indigenous people in this case. It is against this background that we are trying to do this as properly as possible. It will be a bit strange to try to suspect each other when it comes to work, whether it be Jokkmokk municipality, Älvsbyn municipality or our whole country. I may not always succeed, but I still try as far as possible to see the good intentions of my political opponents. I think that both me and Lars Hjälmered basically have the view that jobs and growth in our country are good – and then very much sustainable jobs and sustainable growth. It is very gratifying that the old picture that in the northern part of the country is a lot of unemployment and very scarce jobs is becoming increasingly wrong. In fact, the lowest unemployment rate in our country is in the northern part of the country. This is due to a number of things, including large investments – to talk about the willingness to invest in our country – which I think can make us all happy. There is considerable investment in what is becoming a very large conversion industry. There, the mines and the mining industry have a very important role to play. It is both about more sustainable production of metals and about minerals that are needed for e.g. electrification. It's extremely good. Madam President, I would like We will, of course, come back to the individual mining cases. I cannot, as I said, precede the decisions of the government or the processes that are going on. But in addition, my firm conviction is that we need to look at our entire system, which is far too unpredictable today. I look forward to setting up an investigation as soon as we have directives on the ground to look through this. There we shall take into account a number of important interests, including environmental issues, and ensure the right balance and, above all, predictability.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-113	Madam President, I would like I think it was a very clear statement from the Minister for Enterprise in a couple of parts. The first point I want to make is that the Minister for Economic Affairs says that the KU has not taken note of all the documentation. I find that quite remarkable. I hope that's something the KU can look at. In fact, the KU has requested all the information the government was able to hand over on this. But the Minister for Economic Affairs is saying something completely different. This means that the Constitutional Committee, in its review of the Minister for Economic Affairs on a serious matter, has obviously not received all the documentation and has therefore, in some sense, brought the Minister for Economic Affairs on the wrong ground. It is strange that the government has not provided evidence to the KU. The second, Madam President, is that this is not a simple matter, as I have never said. In Norrbotten, for example, there is a consultation order to involve Sami people. County administrative boards, the National Antiquarie Office and a long list of others are involved in these processes. But when it comes to Kallak and Laver, there are completed cases on the government table. Then someone can take other and greater consideration. I do not doubt the Minister's ambition in this area. I think the problem is that he is tied to the Green Party and that is what it is all about. Most people understand that Ibrahim Baylan may actually personally want to go ahead with this but that the government is locked in the matter. This is why, for example, a case is sent to UNESCO concerning Kallak, even though it is not required by law to do so, since the intended Kallak mine is not located in Laponia but outside. Then it does not have to be wrong; it is up to the government to take this further. Madam President, I would like What then needs to happen, both for these cases and for the future, is that the long permit process is being rectified. The government has set up an investigation that looks at the smallest mining cases, but we should take a bigger approach that allows us to get information more quickly and that it does not cost as much money. The uncertainty that now exists, where you do not really know what you need to live up to in order to get a permit, we must get away from. That is indeed the case in these cases. Neither those who are in favour nor those who are against really know what is coming later. An important message to strengthen Sweden as a mining nation would be to quickly come to a conclusion in these matters.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-118	Madam President, I would like I thank Lars Helmered for a good discussion on matters of concern for Sweden. But right should be right. When I talk about the KU, I talk about the fact that I was in the KU and was not allowed to ask about this. If I had received such a question, we would of course have been able to explain that we have had meetings with both the company and a number of other stakeholders, as well as with the plans that later also came to fruition with us forwarding this to UNESCO. Is that right or wrong? Now, of course, Lars Helmered wants to make this a party politics and a question that there are two parties in the government. But basically it is an administrative matter that needs to be dealt with legally. The lawyers of the Government Office assessed that a decision before the case is settled means that it will be challenged in court. The risk is then quite great that it is cancelled and goes back. We do not want to expose the stakeholders in the mining case or for that matter the company in question. That's why we're doing it as serious and as good as it can get. No, Lars Helmered, it's not about criticizing the KU. I am just referring to the fact that I was in the KU and was not asked about this. Had I received one, I would of course have been able to answer, just as I did now, that we have had a number of meetings from the Ministry of Industry with a number of stakeholders. It has also meant that we have been able to take this issue forward. I hope and believe that we can get a decision in the government in this case once we get the UNESCO opinion. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by wishing Lars Helmered a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year and thank him for the lusse bull I received before the debate. It was very good.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-122	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me if I intend to propose some legislative changes that will allow us to combine a growing Sweden with property rights and a rebuilt defence and how I and the government intend to work towards stable housing construction. She has also asked me how I intend to deal with the issue, which is ultimately about ownership, of the fact that individual landowners in the vicinity of defence activities find it difficult to build or develop their activities. In my answer to a similar question from Alexandra Anstrell recently, I have explained the rules that exist to deal with the balance between defence interests and other opposing interests that may exist in the planning and location of buildings. In my reply, I have also indicated that any proposals for legislative changes in relation to the issue raised by Alexandra Anstrell are not currently relevant. When examining whether new buildings can be permitted under the Planning and Construction Act, there must always be a balance between the individual interest in taking the desired action and general interests that may speak against allowing the measure, including defence interests. There is no unlimited right for a property owner to build his property under applicable law, regardless of where the property is located. Defence interests are a strong public interest. Among other things, it is expressed in the Environmental Code, where national interest in total defence has been given priority in relation to other competing national interests. As I stated in my previous reply to Alexandra Anstrell, permits for additional housing next to a shooting field of national interest are examples of measures that may make it more difficult to renew or reconsider the permits required to operate at the Swedish Armed Forces' facilities. In order for the Swedish Armed Forces to be able to train and train their units, it is necessary for the Agency to have access to appropriate training areas and training facilities. According to the Planning and Construction Act, the buildings must also be located on land that is suitable for the purpose with regard to human health and the possibilities to prevent noise pollution. There is no general ban on settlements in the vicinity of the Swedish Armed Forces' facilities. In the case of an examination, under the Planning and Construction Act, of the measures that may be permitted, a balanced assessment must be made in each case, on the basis of the conditions in the area in question. As the Swedish Armed Forces' operations are now strengthened and expanded, conflicts of interest between defence interests and other opposing interests may increase. I am following developments, but any proposals for legislative changes in relation to the issues raised by Alexandra Anstrell are currently out of the question.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-128	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am here today because I think and believe that it must be possible to combine a growing Sweden with property rights and a rebuilt defence. So we need to discuss these issues. Today we have in several places around the country influences areas that lie as a wet blanket over municipalities' ability to get to a stable housing building. It's a wet blanket of property, which is fortified in the Earth's beam. It's a wet blanket over people's possibilities. For one, as it feels, forever ago, when we in Sweden had a fully equipped defence, the legislation looked completely different in terms of the environment and noise. Today, when we are faced with a reinforced defence, which we have finally decided in this House this week, there are some clashes that do not really have to be collisions. Madam President, I would like I have previously asked questions to the Government about influence areas, whether the Government intends to propose some legislative changes that will enable it to combine a growing Sweden with property rights and a rebuilt defence. I have been given the answer that there is a regulatory framework for dealing with the balance. The problem is that the regulatory framework is not working. We see it in Haninge, we can see it on Gotland and we can see it in Halland. Of course, a defense that's getting bigger has to practice. It may sound a lot, but you get used to it. You always have a choice. You don't have to live right there. But if you choose and want to live close there, if you can imagine it sounds a bit occasionally, and sometimes it sounds a little bit more, you still have to be able to do it. You have to be able to develop that part of a municipality. The regulations referred to by the Minister cause a lot of problems when the Swedish Armed Forces themselves are going to practice. The Environmental Code puts an end to several exercises with long action times and extended permit processes. There are examples of permit processes that have been running out of time for several years without the Swedish Armed Forces having received answers to their applications to use exercise and shooting fields. The Swedish Armed Forces themselves have called for changes to the environmental code to shorten the permit process. This would be done by removing one of the three steps that are currently required to obtain environmental permits, as well as by bringing about a constitutional regulation that says that the county boards will handle matters promptly. The body proposed to be removed is the Land and Environment Court and its opinion to the government. Such a change would allow for more military exercises as a matter of urgency. This would be positive in order to increase the operational capacity of the defence, which the Minister of Defence says he wants to achieve. Good opportunities to practice under different conditions increase the war ability of our armed forces. It is crucial if Sweden's defence is to be war-responsive and, if the worst happens, be able to act forcefully against an armed attack. Is that not something that Minister Bolund wants to achieve? The Minister has just said that he does not intend to make any changes to the law. However, in the reply I just received, the Minister concluded by saying that there may be increased conflicts of interest. Yet the Minister does not want to take responsibility for it and do something about it. I find it remarkable. Madam President, I would like I think it would be appropriate at least to look at the issue. Therefore, I wonder if the Minister would at least consider giving the task of reviewing how the interaction between the Swedish Armed Forces and the rest of society works on a broader level.
i-4BWaznjdwVMZSfSPiE8wLW	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Alexandra Anstrell, for the interpellation and debate. First of all, I would like to correct Alexandra Anstrell in her question. It is possible to combine a growing Sweden with a growing defence and more housing. The government has already shown that. We now have a larger housing building than we have had in decades and far higher than during the time that the Moderates led the government work in Sweden. Now Boverket just yesterday came with a new forecast for residential building where the heading is Stable residential building during the crisis. It is a high level of housing construction and continues to be a high level of housing construction historically in Sweden. The conflict that Alexandra Anstrell is trying to paint is not the real one. However, it is obvious that different interests in society stand against each other. Alexandra Anstrell says in her speech that it is remarkable that conflicts of interest arise when, for example, one now develops the defense, provides more resources and then is in more need of practice areas and practice times. I really find that hard to understand. For me as Minister of Housing, it is obvious that there are conflicts of interest when developing activities. It is a situation that we will never get away from, however the legislation changes. On the other hand, we are always doing our best to balance the conflicts of interest and create the best possible decisions that take account of different interests. It feels a bit like the Moderates and Alexandra Anstrell are trying to create a tulipan rose, as they say. You refuse to choose but you want to pretend you can have everything. Unfortunately, this is not the case in the harsh political reality in which we live. The Moderates have been a strong driver, I want to remember, in order to rearrange the defense and provide more resources, i.e. have more teams to be trained. You want more exercises. They want opportunities to have both flying exercises and other exercises that create challenges for other activities in the area around the exercise areas. We now have that to consider. The government has also made one of the largest armaments of the defence and invested considerable resources in building our defence capabilities. We have done this with the knowledge that it will affect other activities around us. To pretend that, which is convenient when you are in opposition, that you do not have to make that kind of balance is unfortunately not a way of finding solutions or coming forward on these issues. It may lead to cheap opinion points, if that is what you are trying to achieve. Instead, let us have an honest discussion and say that if we are to rebuild the defence, it will mean that some other activities in Sweden will have to adapt to it. It is very difficult to get away from that situation. It is also interesting when you do as I have done and go into the Moderate website and read about the defense. It is hardly this conflict with other interests that Alexandra Anstrell now lifts and seems to think is the most important one that is being expressed. Rather, it is about pushing for more and even more defence work. Then you have to take responsibility for it somewhere as a party. If you want more defence activities, you also have to take responsibility for the fact that, for example, it leads to more noise and activities that are not easy to combine with other activities. I am also a little worried when Alexandra Anstrell says that when the defence was well-equipped we had a different legislation. Does that mean that Alexandra Anstrell wants to go back to the legislation that existed in the 1940s and during the Second World War? I can give you a very clear answer here: the Green Party and the current government do not want that. We are pleased that knowledge of noise and the environment has progressed, and we also need to adapt our regulations to that.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-154	Madam President, I would like The extent of our defence activities, as we have seen in the past, has fluctuated strongly over the years from a period of post-war armaments to the fall of the Iron Curtain with a strong trend of disarmament. At a time when the security situation in our neighbourhood is worse, we want to strengthen our defence capabilities, just as Per Bolund has read on the Moderate website. This means that the Swedish Armed Forces need to be able to practice more and thus have access to training and shooting fields. When it comes to the shooting fields, the Swedish Armed Forces, supported by the Environmental Code, have become much more restrictive and have more clearly stated which influence areas they consider to have in connection with their training and shooting fields. The Swedish Armed Forces describe the influence area in the following way: An influence area is an area in which measures such as new residential buildings may be affected by, or which in turn may affect, activities within the area of national interest. ..................................................... The problem arises when applying the environmental code to noise. The principle then is that, in the case of complaints, the activity must at best be restricted and, at worst, discontinued. Should the Swedish Armed Forces allow new construction within an influence area at a shooting field and the new arrivals feel that the operation is disturbing, the risk arises that the shooting field must be closed. This situation is not unique, that is to say that national interests limit our need to build housing, which many municipalities are in dire need of. Madam President, I would like Would it not be more reasonable, then, if we could work together to strengthen our defence capabilities and at the same time allow more housing? It is highly likely that the defense could have imagined new constructions within its influence areas if it were guaranteed that it would not adversely affect the Swedish Armed Forces' operations. The problem is that the environmental code does not allow this. The minister says I'm not giving a real picture. But we have the example of Tofta on Gotland. Tofta shooting field began to be established in 1898 and covers approximately 2,700 hectares. It's a unique practice field because it can be used for all defense weapons. Between 2004 and 2018, when the defense had a low presence on the island, only parts of the training field were used. After re-establishment in 2018, the entire exercise field is now used. Madam President, I would like The defence has since old a strong popular anchor on Gotland. Neighbors have long been accustomed to military presence and noise without creating significant conflicts of interest. Therefore, the majority of Gotlanders were also in favour of the re-establishment of P 18 on the island. The problem with the new environmental condition is that the impact area, or the influence area, surrounding the exercise field is about ten times larger than it was with previous permits. The explanation is said to be the new legislation – it is unclear how – that will govern this. The massive expansion of the area has taken place despite the fact that it is the same weapons dimensions and types of weapons that have been used for a long time. The completely governing aspect of the size of the impact area is the Noise Investigation. Within the impact area, a wet blanket is laid over development and construction that covers an area that is about two mil long and one mil wide on Gotland. It is the same in Halmstad, where if the forecasts come true it will have to be built housing for another 50,000 inhabitants over the next 30 years. Here, too, the presence of the defense is quite self-evident, and there are no major problems with what sounds. Doesn't the Minister think it would be clever to avoid unnecessary conflicts of interest? Perhaps the Environmental Code could allow some form of service for the defense's practice?
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-167	Madam President, I would like I sincerely hope that it is not as Alexandra Anstrell says: that the defense has the same weapon today that they had when Tofta was once established, 1898. That would be very unfortunate. This is an example of how society is constantly evolving and that we must constantly take these developments into account when weighing different interests against each other. That is what makes this legislation quite complicated and the balance complicated. This is not the only development going on in our society. For example, research and science give us more and more knowledge about how, for example, the environment, noise and other factors affect us as biological beings and our health. This also means that legislation must be constantly developed to take account of the knowledge that is also being developed. I would think it would be a rather terrible development if the legislation stayed in the 1898 regulatory framework and we decided that it should be for all eternal future. This is a development that we must constantly take into account and be able to balance. To me, it sounds like what Alexandra Anstrell is really after is that we should abandon ownership, that is, if you own a property that is affected by defence interests, you should not have the same rights as other property owners. Then we are going into rather fundamental legislative changes; it is almost constitutional changes we are talking about because for some it does not apply to the same property rights as for others. I think that's a very difficult way to go. The government is working intensively to constantly try to make the renewed balance. For example, we have national interests formed by the new Planning and Construction Act in the 1980s. Since then there have also been developments; much has happened in society. That is why we think there needs to be a review, and we are now carrying out an ongoing review of national interests. Boverket coordinates, and there are six different authorities now reviewing their national interests. In addition to Boverket, it is the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish Energy Agency, the Swedish Growth Agency, the Swedish Transport Administration and the National Antiquarie Office. The review will be finalized on 15 September 2021, and then we will get more evidence to see how we can reduce some national interests and thus enable some other activities similar to those highlighted by Alexandra Anstrell. As Alexandra Anstrell may have heard, the defence is not included here, and it is because we in the government say that the defence has a special interest and that it is above other national interests, which is also in the environmental code. My question is: does Alexandra Anstrell want us to do the same review of the national interests of the defence? It would be a way of combining the balances in a different way, i.e. that the national interests of the defence are given a mate while other interests in society are given greater importance, such as housing and participation. That would be interesting to hear. That is not the path the government has chosen. As far as the environmental code is concerned, the national interest in total defence has been given priority in relation to other competing national interests. This is precisely because the legislator has seen that this is an activity of particular importance to Sweden's security. My question is: do the Moderates and Alexandra Anstrell want to tear up this regulatory framework, that is to say that the defence should not have a special interest in legislation but should be weighed against other interests? This, too, is not the path chosen by the government in this case. Again: It's a little hard to grasp what Alexandra Anstrell thinks you can achieve in the short term. These are conflicts of interest that have been present throughout Sweden's modern history and will continue to exist. They change over time, which is why we need to review the regulatory framework. But the belief that they would not arise at all, I find it a bit difficult to defend even if you are in opposition. We also have another stake, and it is wind power and that we should be able to build wind power in our country. The Government has given a mission to the Swedish Armed Forces to see how to enable construction. Is that something that Alexandra Anstrell supports because we have ownership interests?
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-180	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think we're leaving the wind power to our very own interpellation. I promise I'll write it. Understandably, it is not in the interest of the defence to open up the legislation too much, as it risks having to limit its activities and that it will be more difficult to obtain a permit in the future. But it is in the interests of the defence to have a broad popular base for the work they do. Since the beginning of the 1990s, both the Environmental Code and the Planning and Construction Act have changed on a number of crucial points, especially when it comes to disruptive activities. This has meant that it has become increasingly difficult to build in environments that are exposed to noise, for example. As a result, activities that are seen as disturbing have become much more restrictive when it comes to supporting construction in the immediate vicinity, especially activities that are classified as national interests. It is good that the Minister is now doing this review, and I look forward to reading it on 15 September. However, the current situation will be difficult. It will be difficult for the Swedish Armed Forces to practice and for municipalities and landowners to build. This, Madam President, restricts property rights and creates divisions that are unnecessary and should be resolved. I do not think you can solve all the problems in the world, but I think you can do much better than you do today. I thought that perhaps you could have some form of wait for the Armed Forces' exercise activities if you need to change legislation. There is probably also a need for a better cooperation forum for dialogue. I believe that much can be resolved through better dialogue. If we are serious about building a strong defence, we must do so together with our municipalities and regions. Then defence becomes a natural part of our everyday lives and is seen as an asset instead of becoming something that creates unnecessary division because of rigid legislation. Does the Minister intend to act on this issue, or will we just see the Minister following it in the gallery without acting?
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-189	Madam President, I would like I have already answered the last question. We act all the time to enable increased housing construction and to be able to use the areas around Sweden as efficiently as possible. But I have also made it clear that there are conflicting interests which in some cases are difficult to reconcile, although Alexandra Anstrell still pretends a little bit that there is no conflict of interest. I lifted wind power as an example. It is also a matter of strong participation. Many landowners would make quite a lot of money if wind turbines could be built in their areas, but today this is limited by the Swedish Armed Forces' interests when it comes to exercise activities, for example. I look forward to the interpellation promised by Alexandra Anstrell and the debate that can follow it. We have, and it is important to note, clearly increased construction during this and the previous parliamentary term compared to what it has been like in previous years. It shows that we have been able to combine different interests with each other and that this leads to us being able to reduce the housing shortage. This year, Boverket has increased the forecasts – we will build 54,000 apartments, which is almost double the pace of construction compared to what it was like when the Moderates led the government and influenced residential construction. Even ahead, forecasts appear to be higher than before. These are important issues, and we will continue to follow them. We will do everything we can to enable continued increased housing construction and to be able to use the Swedish soil as efficiently as possible – for housing but also for businesses such as energy production. On the other hand, I have no illusions about the conflict that actually exists, not only with the defence, but also, for example, with regard to transport supply and many other interests. We will continue to live with it, and we need to continue to develop legislation on this. With this, I would like to thank you for this interpellation and also to wish Alexandra Anstrell, all the listeners and the President a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-195	Madam President, I would like Yasmine Posio has asked me what I and the government are doing to support the right to abortion in Poland and whether I intend to act in order for the EU to withhold funds for countries that do not protect democracy and women's rights. The rights of women and girls, including sexual and reproductive health and rights, are human rights. Sweden considers that access to safe and legal abortion is part of these rights. The Swedish position is well known to Poland, and we present it to Polish representatives in various contexts. In the bilateral dialogue and in the EU context, we are discussing with Poland issues that unite, but also issues where we have different perspectives. Human rights issues, in particular the rights of girls and women and the rights of LGBT people, are a priority during the talks. Polish women already have the opportunity to travel to Sweden to have an abortion. In 2008, the requirement to be a Swedish citizen was removed from the Abortion Act. As with other healthcare provided to EU citizens, the costs of the region will be reimbursed by the woman's home country, given that the woman has insurance in her home country. The remuneration is based on the woman's insurance policy. If it does not cover abortion, the woman herself must bear the cost. E n assessment of whether the need for care cannot be met for medical reasons needs to be made on a case-by-case basis. Discussions are currently under way on the next EU multiannual budget, including the condition that EU funds are managed in a manner consistent with the Union's fundamental democratic values and the principles of the rule of law. This negotiation, as everyone knows, is now completed. The government maintains that EU funds should not go to Member States that fail to comply with the principles of the rule of law.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-200	Madam President, I would like In the 1960s, Swedish abortion legislation was very restrictive, and many women went from Sweden to Poland to make abortions. This was changed in 1974, when Sweden finally introduced the abortion law that is still in force today. It is well known that abortion bans do not prevent women from doing abortion – it only makes it much more dangerous. In countries where abortion is permitted, according to the Guttmacher Institute, 34 abortions per 1,000 women are performed. Where abortion is allowed only if the woman's life is in danger, the corresponding figure is 37. There are therefore more abortions in those countries where it is almost always illegal. Instead, abortions are done surreptitiously, without access to medical equipment or trained staff. In addition to the stigma and trauma of such an abortion, the risk of serious injuries is imminent. Every year, according to the World Health Organization, 47 000 women and girls die from unsafe and illegal abortions. At the same time, it is noted that virtually all deaths or disabilities associated with abortions could be prevented, including through the provision of safe and legal abortions. When support for Communist rule in Poland declined in the 1980s, the solidarity movement grew strong with the support of the Catholic Church. When the government fell in 1989, the Catholic Church gained political influence, and already in 1993 a very restrictive abortion law was introduced. Today, abortion is allowed only after rape, when the mother's life is at risk, or in case of serious birth defects. However, the Government Party of Law and Justice is not satisfied with this, but wants to further restrict the right to abortion. Abortion should only be allowed after rape or in case of danger to the woman's life or health. There are fewer than 2 000 legal abortions in Poland, and according to women's organisations up to 200 000 abroad or illegally per year. Since 1993, protest actions have been carried out in Poland and solidarity actions have been carried out in other countries, but they have not been sufficient to bring about a change to the law. Thankfully, in recent years the protests have been large enough every time proposals for further restrictions have been put forward, and when the proposal to restrict the abortion law would be further dealt with in the Constitutional Court rather than in Parliament, the protests became massive despite the pandemic. This clearly shows that people in Poland have had enough of the Polish Government and are going into protest even though they are at risk of being infected with Corona. The Polish Government has therefore announced that it is waiting for the implementation of the law. Nevertheless, hospitals have already begun to deny women the poor abortion care they are entitled to. It is great that the requirement to be a Swedish citizen was removed in the Abortion Act 2008. On the other hand, we know that it is not certain that a foreign woman's insurance will cover the costs of abortion, and it can be an expensive story for anyone who needs to have an abortion. That is why we in the Left Party have proposed that an investigation be set up into how subsidised abortions for foreign women can be offered in Sweden. I may think that a government that runs a feminist foreign policy should be able to agree to this. I wonder how Secretary of State Ann Linde views it. The compromise agreed in the EU on the principles of the rule of law and the fundamental values of the Union are seen as a win on both sides. Unfortunately, we do not know who will get it until the European Court of Justice gives its opinion. Can we, Minister of Linde Affairs, trust that the government's insistence that EU funds should not go to Member States that do not live up to the principles of the rule of law stands firm throughout the process?
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-209	Madam President, I would like As Yasmine Posio says, the recent decision of the Polish Constitutional Court constitutes a strong restriction on the already very restrictive abortion legislation. It is therefore a setback for the rights of Polish women and girls. We have seen how the Court's decision has led to widespread popular protests in Poland, not only in Warsaw but throughout the country. The protests continue and show that there is a strong domestic opinion on this issue. The Constitutional Court's decision has not yet been published, and this means that the new restrictions to Polish abortion legislation have not entered into force. It is unclear when this happens, but the concern remains that the restrictions have already begun and that there will be even more restrictions in practice. As Yasmine Posio points out, banning or restricting the right to abortion does not mean reducing the number of abortions. It only makes them less safe and potentially life-threatening. Our position on the issue of abortion is well known to Poland, and we present it to Polish representatives in various contexts. For example, I raised the issue in my last conversation with the Polish Foreign Minister a few weeks ago. I also raised, of course, the issue of LGBT people's rights. These are priority issues in these talks. Our Embassy in Warsaw also has well-developed contacts with Polish women's organisations, and they regularly participate in various activities to support Polish civil society and women's organisations. So, as we have noted, Polish women are already able to travel to Sweden to have an abortion. The requirement to be a Swedish citizen no longer exists, but of course if you do not have insurance that makes the country cover it, the woman herself will have to bear the cost. I think it would go far too far to start paying for different types of care in Europe, because then we will get into a discussion about what to pay for and not. As things stand, therefore, we stand by the line we have taken so far.
i-Kh1V95jPQ5hzDFQLCf2Gvm	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde, for your answer. Let us really hope that Poland will receive less money, see how it has acted and continues to act in violation of human rights. For those of us who believe in democratic and human rights, it goes without saying that it is not enough simply for a woman to vote in favour of everyone's democratic rights being respected. It requires a woman to have the time and opportunity to participate in society. It takes a woman to be allowed to control her own body. That is why we in the Left Party have fought for preschools, sex education, contraception, legal abortions, equal pay and shared parental insurance. We have had most parties against us, but slowly but surely almost everyone has joined the homage of how far we have come in Sweden when it comes to gender equality, although we know that we have a bit to go. Poland is moving in the opposite direction. Sexual education is prohibited in school, as it is considered to contribute to sex-dependent and confused gender identity. When Pride demonstrations are carried out, counter-demonstrations are organised by the church and the nationalists. The fact that nationalist and conservative governments and presidents are attacking women's rights is not something new, nor that they are attacking other democratic and human rights. Because it's connected. According to Reporters Without Borders, Poland's freedom of the press index fell by 33 placements from the entry into force of Law and Justice in 2015. Journalists are threatened with imprisonment, and public service channels are now national media whose task is to be propaganda machines for the ruling party. The other day, the state energy company bought up a media group with 20 local newspapers. Where will the people hear independent and oppositional visions? How can we, Minister of Foreign Affairs Ann Linde, ensure that the Polish population is not fed only propaganda? The exceptional way in which the Polish Government, by reducing the age of judges by 15 years, has replaced large parts of the judiciary and has itself appointed new judges has led to a politically governed court. Where, then, are the people going to turn for a fair trial? This is clear proof that Poland is not complying with the principles of the rule of law. The other day, I had a digital encounter with three Polish abortion papers. They asked for official information on the rights of Polish women with regard to abortions in Sweden. They also told us that the massive resistance movement with hundreds of thousands of demonstrators around Poland consists of several movements in addition to the women's movement: the LGBTI and environmental movement, Fridays for Future as well as left-wing movements. For them, it is obvious that all human rights are interrelated. It is not just one that is attacked by the Polish Government but several, and now they have had enough. That is why it is so important that Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde and I have this interpellation debate, both to show the movements in Poland that Sweden is in solidarity with them and to show the Polish Government Party and the President that we are not backing down to criticise their authoritarian leaders. Now it sounds like I am speaking for both of us, but I dare say that Ann Linde agrees with me that we in this House need to raise the situation of women in Poland.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-224	Madam President, I would like I absolutely agree with Yasmine Posio that it is important that we have these debates in this House. We have had it before, and I very much welcome it. On the other hand, I have to say that it is not quite correct that it would be the Left Party that has pushed all the issues relating to women and gender equality. I would like to remind the interpellete that the Liberal and Social Democratic women were absolutely crucial in order for us to have the right to vote at all so that we can stand here today and discuss these issues. The Socialist Women's League has also been fighting for women's rights, including sexual and reproductive rights, ever since they started. It is therefore not correct to say that it was the Left Party and that the other parties then joined. I do not think, however, that Yasmine Posio wants to go into the history of the Left Party. With regard to sexual and reproductive health and rights, we believe that it is a human right, and that is why it should also be addressed when discussing human rights. Safe and legal abortion is a human right. Everyone has the right to decide over his own body, his own sexuality and reproduction. This is a high priority for the government at both global and EU level. During 2020, there has been a particular focus on the foreign administration to ensure that SRHR is included in the response to covid-19. This includes access to legal and safe abortions, and it has been a key priority. Several foreign authorities conduct a dialogue on and monitor legislation and legislation that restricts the right to abortion in their countries. Within the EU, we are pushing for the EU to be a strong player, highlighting the SRHR on the international stage, not least within the UN. Now, of course, the EU Action Plan on Gender Equality and Women's Empowerment and the EU's Development Policy, the New European Consensus on Development – our world, our dignity, our future, have been the starting points for the EU's external work on sexual and reproductive health. These are commitments supported by the EU Member States. We have also been instrumental in highlighting the EU's new action plan on gender equality in external relations and having the SRHR as its own target area. Unfortunately, political resistance has increased. I was told right now, before entering the Chamber today, that Poland and Hungary have known the new equality plan. It is of course very problematic, and it is therefore imperative that all of us who are in favour of safe and legal abortions and who are in favour of SRHR issues continue to act together.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-231	Madam President, I would like From time to time, it may sound as if Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde and I are in complete agreement, and that is sometimes the case with regard to human rights. It is not that we think the government is doing nothing at all. But I believe that more is needed. It is good that foreign women can carry out abortions in Sweden, but we know that those who are in great need of abortion are those with the lowest income. Therefore, at least we want to investigate whether Sweden cannot offer subsidised abortions. Today we have talked about Poland, which, according to V-Dem, a research group at the University of Gothenburg, is the third most autocratised country in the world in the last decade. According to V-Dem, the reason why it has not been completely lost in Poland is that they have such a strong popular resistance movement. That is why it is important for this movement to have our support, which it is receiving here today. Staffan I Lindberg, director of the V-Dem Institute, says: ..................................................... For four years the world has had such a leader, who has also had an enormous global media impact as president of the United States. The first thing Trump did was to introduce the gag rule. Recently, the United States hosted a virtual ceremony in which a declaration against abortion was signed. Among other things, Poland, Hungary, Turkey and the United States signed up. Not only do they want to restrict the right to abortion, but in these countries it has been done hand in hand with threats to and imprisonment of human rights activists and journalists, and defamation of recognised media. I hope that this race against fundamentalism and autocracy will lose momentum when Biden takes office as President. We do not need fewer democracies in the world; on the contrary, the whole world needs to become democratic, equal and equal – for the right of women and girls to control their own bodies here, in Poland and throughout the world. Merry Christmas!
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-239	Madam President, I would like As Yasmine Posio says, it is precisely with alliance-building cooperation, not least cross-regional, that we can pursue the issues forcefully. Sweden is active in the She Decides movement, which specifically deals with the right to abortion. The result is that the group of like-minded on issues for the SRHR has become larger. The alliance mentioned by Yasmine Posio last year was launched at the UN General Assembly. What is interesting is that that alliance brought together some thirty countries, including those mentioned by the interpeller, but immediately at the meeting came a counter-alignment saying that they cannot accept it, that they want to fight for women's and girls' rights and they are in favour of the SRHR. There was an answer right away. It is not that these forces are greater than we who are fighting for women's and girls' rights. On the other hand, they have become much more pronounced. Actually, I'm very worried about that. More than 6 per cent of the total Swedish aid in 2019 was used for SRHR operations. It's a total of almost 3 billion. The countries that support SRHR issues have entered when the US has withdrawn its support from all the organisations that are fighting for SRHR issues. Like Yasmine Posio, I welcome a new American administration, and I assume that this so-called gag rule will be removed. I also wish you a Merry Christmas to the interpellier.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-244	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked Minister Hans Dahlgren what the government will do to ensure that the rule of law problems of Albania and North Macedonia are not forgotten in the membership negotiations. The work in the government is distributed so that it is I who answers the question. The General Council decided on 25 March 2020 to open accession negotiations with Albania and North Macedonia. For Albania, the decision was conditional on the implementation of a number of further reforms before negotiations could start. Among other things, Albania must reform the electoral law and carry out further reforms of the judicial system. Albania must also strengthen the fight against corruption and organised crime. The framework for accession negotiations with Albania and North Macedonia is now being negotiated in the Council. Accession negotiations will incorporate the Commission's improved approach to enlargement approved by the Council on 25 March 2020. This means that further focus is placed on, among other things, legal issues, objective criteria and conditionality. For example, it will be easier to slow down or suspend negotiations if reform progress is not achieved. The principles and democracy of the rule of law should permeate the entire accession process and set the pace for the negotiations. The government is working to ensure that the New Approach is fully integrated into the framework for future accession negotiations. On the date of the formal opening of membership negotiations, the government will continue to be the driving force for further reforms in Albania and North Macedonia. Those countries that do not fully meet the criteria should not become members of the EU. A close relationship with the countries of the Western Balkans is important for our common security and economy. What is happening in the region has a direct impact on the EU, and vice versa. The list of what we need together with our neighbours is long, from the ongoing proliferation of covid-19 to environmental protection, security, migration and the fight against organised crime.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-249	Madam President, I would like Recently, the Council decided to open accession negotiations with Albania and North Macedonia. The government supported that decision while we were more sceptical. I am willing to admit that there are arguments both for and against, which are based on slightly different perspectives on the issue. The reason why I have asked the Foreign Minister to come here today is that I think it is only a perspective that has an impact on how the government is reasoning. The arguments for countries joining the EU are very much based on the geopolitical perspective. Countries such as Russia and Turkey, and some other states, are trying to gain influence in the region, which is a direct threat to their democratic development and an indirect threat to Europe. The arguments against are more everyday. For example, a person was recently arrested with a sharp - charged automatic weapon in a school yard right next to the house where I live and where my children play. It's not funny at all, and many Swedes have similar stories to tell. Why am I bringing it up? Well, statistically, it's not incredible that these weapons come from that region... although I don't know exactly where the weapon came from in this case. The same applies to much of the drugs smuggled into the EU and the trafficking in human beings carried out here. Against this background, I find it a little strange that the November European Council communication does not mention at all the problems that exist with, for example, the smuggling of weapons and drugs. Another sign that the Council is not taking matters seriously enough is the working paper released at the beginning of March this year, Update on the Republic of Albania and the Republic of North Macedonia. This is precisely about corruption and organised crime. But that paper has not been updated since the decision was taken to open negotiations. We would have liked to see what has happened since March before the decision was taken. There are, in itself, additional demands for Albania to meet certain criteria before negotiations really start, as the Foreign Minister says, but I think this is a rather strange order. Why is it that a decision is taken to open negotiations and then to say that the negotiations do not really begin until the country has met additional criteria? It sends a double signal, we think. The Foreign Minister is knowledgeable and has been in top politics for a long time. However, I believe that there is a risk that people who are in top politics too long will lose the everyday citizen's perspective on such major geopolitical issues. I would therefore like to ask the Government what she will do to ensure that this perspective is not forgotten.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-258	Madam President, I would like EU proximity is one of the most important tools we have to support democracy and the rule of law in the Western Balkans. The possibility of becoming a member in the long term is important, not least as a driving force for further reform in the region and for cooperation related to our common security. There are clear challenges in the area of the rule of law in Albania and North Macedonia. The government takes this very seriously. From the Swedish side, we are consistent in highlighting and supporting the strengthening of the rule of law as a central part of the countries' EU approach. This is done not only in the context of the EU negotiations on enlargement, but also in our own talks with the countries in the region and through our support for reform. Substantial reforms remain before Albania and North Macedonia can become members of the EU. The negotiation process is robust and takes time. The government repeatedly stresses the importance of assessing the reform progress of the candidate countries on the basis of their own merits. Objective criteria must be met in order for the negotiations to move forward. These are very important elements of the improved method of enlargement agreed by the Council. Madam President, I would like Organised crime is a clear example of a common challenge that requires our cooperation. I can't imagine for my life how Ludvig Aspling can believe that he and his family are the only ones affected. There are a great many people who are affected, including us who are ministers. There was a blow below the belt, dear interpellant! As I mentioned in the foreign policy declaration, the foreign administration is now also making a special effort to support the work against organised crime aimed at Sweden. The Special Envoy appointed by the Government for the fight against organised crime contributes to this effort. It also does a number of our foreign authorities, including in the Western Balkans. The mission is primarily about working closely with other parts of the Government Office to support the Swedish law enforcement authorities in their international contacts and cooperate with the Ministry for Foreign Affairs in this area. We will continue to work to strengthen the fight against organised crime and strengthen the rule of law in the countries of the region. It is also an important part of the reform work that is necessary for the countries' European approach. I and Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg recently visited the region for talks on how to strengthen cooperation against international organised crime. In the case of these countries, it is specifically a question of many weapons coming to Sweden from these countries because, after the Balkan wars, there were very many weapons circulating freely. I have spoken to the Prime Minister of Albania about this. He was very committed to how we could help each other. We spoke to several other embassies who are now doing the same in Albania to curb organised crime. I have also spoken about this issue with my North Macedonian counterpart, Foreign Minister Osmani.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-266	Madam President, I would like Regarding my personal anecdote, I just stressed that many other Swedes have similar stories to tell. I don't know if the government will listen when we stand here and talk. Another issue that I think is important to highlight here is whether the situation on the ground actually gives grounds for opening negotiations. If you look at The Economist's Democracy Index, which is a ten-point scale where a ten is a perfect democracy and a zero is a total authoritarian state, you can see that Albania falls into the category of hybrid regime with an index of 5, 89. No current EU state is a hybrid regime. North Macedonia gets an index of 5, 98. If they joined today, the countries would be the weakest democracies in the Union – significantly worse than both Hungary and Poland, for example. Of course, these countries will not join tomorrow, that is not what I am saying, but experience shows that the European approach does not seem to make the countries of the Western Balkans more democratic. We have not yet seen such an effect. What, then, is the reason for the poor rating? The list of problems can be made quite long; the Government is well aware of that. But the most serious thing, of course, is the links between leading politicians and organised crime – I think, at least. In North Macedonia, former Prime Minister Nikola Gruevski was sentenced in his absence to 18 months in prison for incitement to violent riots, among other things. This is the second time he has been sentenced to prison, but he left the country after the first sentence and has now been granted political asylum in Hungary. Three more investigations are currently under way, including corruption and electoral fraud, during his time in power. In Albania, it is widely known that the leader of the Socialist Party and the country's Prime Minister Edi Rama are leading a coalition with documented links to organised crime. For example, Balkan Insight, which usually is a reliable source, writes: a Prime Minister Rama has been activated for years of being pals with people with serial criminal pasts. One of his forms MPs has received a final sentence for human trafficking in Italy. Another has been designed a persona non grata by the US State Department for Corruption. Several Socialist Party mayors have been discovered as having rich criminal pasts as well over the last few years. ..................................................... There are also allegations that the measures taken against organised crime in Albania are really about party politics, since prosecutions are apparently often directed against people associated with opposition parties – who are probably just as involved as they are. Here's what I think.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-275	I would like to remind you that the language of this House is Swedish.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-276	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by asking why on earth, when we stand here debating, Ludvig Aspling accuses me of not listening to him. I stand here listening all the time. I'm standing here debating. I have written a well-functioning answer to the questions, which are very serious. Yet it is in your political interest to accuse me of belonging to an elite, not listening, not having experience of crime. That's because it fits into your political history, and I think it's low. I have to tell you. Even in the accession negotiations that have formally begun with Albania and North Macedonia, we will attach importance to the reform efforts. It is the case that full and sustainable implementation of the rule of law and anti-corruption measures is required. Progress in this is also clearly focusing on the improved method of enlargement. It should be conditionality, and it should be easier to slow down or suspend negotiations if a reform strategy is missed. We have a long history of cooperation with the countries of the Western Balkans. Sweden is also one of the largest bilateral aid actors in the region. Our cooperation in reform aims to help the countries in their European Union and has a clear focus on democracy and the rule of law, economic development and the environment and climate. Sweden is also contributing to the reform process in Albania and North Macedonia through the EU's robust and comprehensive support. The principles of the rule of law are at the heart of the EU's comprehensive pre-accession assistance. We see that the reform efforts produce results when one has a political will. In North Macedonia, several important laws have been adopted, and now the important implementation work is being followed. The European Commission's latest country report shows progress, including in the judiciary and in the fight against corruption and organised crime. In Albania, new institutions for an independent legal system have been created. Albanian authorities have also strengthened the operational coordination capacity in the fight against corruption. Important steps have also been taken to reform the electoral law. However, much work remains to be done in several areas. As far as Albania is concerned, a number of conditions remain to be met before formal negotiations can be opened. When it comes to spreading rumours about my colleagues in other countries, I choose not to answer them at all.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-283	Here I should remind you that according to the Swedish parliamentary practice, the speaker formally addresses his speech directly to the President and thus indirectly to the Members of this House. A Member or a Minister who speaks to another speaker in a debate, for example by responding to an argument, should use the speaker's first and last name. This means that there should be no direct appeal between the speakers, such as:
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-285	Madam President, I would like I have also read the country report and read about the progress made by the country report and highlighted by the Government in this House. My criticism does not concern the work that is being done, but my criticism is that we choose to move forward this quickly without waiting to see whether the measures taken have any real effect. That is what my criticism is about. I think this is a hasty decision. The last question I would like to ask the Government is about the longer perspective. After all, democratic development is a problem in the countries that have previously been part of the Eastern bloc and Yugoslavia. If we look at the democracy index that I mentioned in my previous speech, we can see, for example, that Europe's weakest democracy is Romania, followed by Croatia. Several other EU countries such as Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic have similar problems. This is well known. Given that several of these countries have been members of the European Union for quite some time, but democratic development does not seem to be moving in the right direction, does the Government believe that there is any reason to suspect that the Union has perhaps been premature in its decisions in the past when new members have been raised?
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-290	Madam President, I would like There was another accession process earlier. Today, the accession process has changed – it looks different, with a greater focus on, among other things, the principles of the rule of law at an early stage. The process is based on clear criteria and on own merits. The countries themselves are setting the pace by implementing the necessary reforms. These requirements are further clarified by the new methodology now being implemented for Albania and North Macedonia. A careful process means that countries that do not fully meet the criteria cannot become members of the EU. The fundamental aim of the EU-wide process is to promote peace, stability, democracy and economic development in the long term. This includes reforms to address precisely the kind of challenges addressed by the interpeller. There is a need to do more – not less – to strengthen reform efforts in the region. Closer cooperation with the region strengthens our ability to meet and address common cross-border challenges, including organised crime.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-293	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me whether I and the government are evaluating international efforts and assistance so that compliance is achieved in accordance with the bill text for next year's Swedish military contribution to Minusma in Mali regarding the feminist foreign policy and Resolution 1325 with subsequent resolutions. She has also asked whether I have chosen to conclude an international or aid operation because the result has not been good enough. Finally, she has asked me, now that Sweden's action plan for 2016 – 2020 expires, what work on the action plan I can explain that has led to the best results and how I measured and evaluated that result. Let me first say that I welcome this interpellation debate and that I am proud of Sweden's work for women's role in conflict resolution and peace work. On 31 October 2000, the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. This, together with subsequent resolutions, constitutes the international agenda for women, peace and security. The government is working to integrate these issues into all work for peace and security. This applies to both the Government Office and Sida, as well as the Swedish Armed Forces and other authorities. Mali is one of the world's poorest countries, with a very serious human rights situation, including women's and girls' rights. Swedish efforts to implement the agenda for women, peace and security form an integral part of the broad, long-term Swedish commitment to Mali. This commitment includes both development cooperation and humanitarian aid as well as military and civilian contributions to UN and EU operations in Mali, including the UN stabilizing operation Minusma. The bill on the Minus Main movement states that the situation in Mali is complex. It is important to be aware that it may take time to demonstrate results in an environment characterised by a lack of government presence, major security problems, conflict and widespread poverty. The government will return to the Riksdag with an overall evaluation of our Malian engagement later on. The results of development cooperation are followed up towards the goals set out in the Government's strategy for Sweden's international development cooperation. The result is also followed up to what is stated in the policy instruments, such as the instructions and regulatory letters of the authorities. During the current strategic period, development cooperation with Mali has a stated goal of strengthening the influence and participation of women in peace processes and in peace and state building. In the instructions on developing a new strategy for Sweden's development cooperation with Mali that the government issued to Sida and the Folke Bernadotte Academy, FBA, in May 2020, the government was clear that inclusive peace-building efforts should be a continued priority for Sida's and FBA's activities during the coming strategy period. Our conviction is that women's inclusion is a prerequisite for sustainable democratic development in Mali. International peace efforts such as Minusma in Mali are continuously evaluated by the UN. One example is the Secretary-General's report on women, peace and security, which provides annual updates on implementation in different countries, including Mali. The report is based on information gathered from Member States, the UN and civil society. Another example is the informal expert group on women, peace and security, which makes context-specific recommendations to the Security Council on the basis of local organisations regarding implementation in specific countries. A good dozen countries have so far been discussed in this format, including Mali. When Sweden sat on the UN Security Council, we got through that all UN efforts would include a mandate to work on these issues. Minusma's mandate has been strengthened in recent years regarding women, peace and security and includes prioritising women's participation in the implementation and monitoring of the peace agreement. Having said that, the participation of women in the peace process in Mali has been inadequate, although we are now seeing a slow increase in the proportion of women. There is active work going on among international partners in support of this, including the Folke Bernadotte Academy. Minusma has also trained 50 police officers to deal with cases of conflict-related sexual violence. Sweden's national action plan, the third in the order since 2006, for the implementation of UN Security Council resolutions on women, peace and security, was decided by the Government on 28 April 2016. Work will continue into the 2020s, initially in the form of the current plan, while work on developing a new plan will begin in 2021. Authorities contributing to the implementation report annually on the results of the work carried out, as well as on lessons learned and challenges. The overall result of the authorities' work is compiled in an annual report published on the government's website and used as a basis for the government's reporting to the UN and the EU. As the questioner notes, the second report shows that the focus of the Action Plan on leadership and ownership and the integration of issues into day-to-day operations have produced results.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-302	Madam President, I would like I want to take this opportunity to wish everyone a Merry Christmas right now so that I don't forget it at the end! We are here today to debate the role of women in conflict resolution and peace work. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The fact that women have an important role in conflict resolution and peace work should be absolutely obvious, but we are not there yet, however much we want it to be. It is 20 years since Resolution 1325 was adopted by the UN Security Council. This resolution is a legally binding document dealing with the issue of how war affects women and women's participation in conflict resolution and in achieving long-term sustainable peace. The representation of women in peace processes will increase, peace-promoting efforts will be characterised by a gender perspective, specific needs for women in refugee camps will be met and measures supporting women's local peace initiatives will be promoted. With the adoption of this resolution, the link between equality, international peace and security and sustainable development was officially recognised – great! But the road is long and variegated, hence my interpellation to the Foreign Minister here today. The central point is that the UN and the Member States are obliged to work to increase women's participation in conflict prevention and peace-building, as well as reconstruction work and to strengthen the work for women's security in armed conflicts. An important part of the work on the resolution is to increase women's power and political participation. Then I think it's important to follow up on the way things have turned out. Does what we do have the expected effect? That is why I have asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs questions about evaluations of the objectives set. But I feel that I only get a response that evaluation is made and that they are also evaluated by the UN but nothing more. Mr. Old President! Maybe I'm too much of an intern. Nevertheless, I think it is practical to know if what you are doing is having the desired effect, because if it is not, perhaps you should do it in a different way. Last spring, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' second report on Sweden's work on the Third National Action Plan for the Implementation of UN Security Council Resolutions on Women, Peace and Security. Here we can read that the action plan's focus on leadership, ownership and integration of the issues in ordinary operations has produced results, and that is a good thing. At the same time, however, one of the final recommendations is to develop clear performance targets linked to the Action Plan's thematic priorities by focus countries and ensure that they are synchronised with other processes and frameworks for gender equality and gender mainstreaming. We can also read that, in order to effectively implement the action plan, it is important that there is a clear and coherent vision for where the agency is going. If it is not clear what vision applies, you may need to reach out with it in some other way. It's just like school. If a student does not understand what the teacher says, it is not enough to say the same thing a little louder, but you may need to explain in a different way. A clear message alone is not always enough to bring about change. Mr. Old President! In recent years we have taken a number of decisions on international efforts. In the last bill on Mali, we were able to read about the national targets, and in the new one that we have decided on this week, the government reports that women's participation in the implementation of the peace agreement has been very limited. What I am looking for is that we take decisions after decisions without either following up women's participation in conflict resolution or becoming clearer and clearer in the requirement for our participation. I feel that I have not received an answer from the Minister to the question of whether the Minister has ever concluded an effort because it has not been good enough. Is it because the result has not been sufficiently followed up?
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-315	Mr. Old President! The interpellant and I agree that work on gender equality in conflict resolution must continue. And I can assure the interpeller that all Swedish development work is followed up in the review by the OECD Development Assistance Committee Dac. In fact, when they presented it last year, we received praise for effective performance management. This evaluation and follow-up are, of course, also crucial for the proper use of our tax money, and the government's governance of the authorities is very clear in this regard. In recent years, both Sida and the Folke Bernadotte Academy have taken further initiatives to strengthen the work to follow up our goals and evaluation. On the question of whether we have chosen not to continue an international effort, we have not chosen to end our participation in an international military operation on account of little or no results in the areas of women, peace and security. We simply do not think that would be the right way to go. Swedish engagement in international military operations is based on a comprehensive analysis, where women, peace and the security agenda are an important parameter. Nor is it clear that it would help women in this context if we or others in the international community withdrew our support. It is important to see the long-term nature of this work. Sida, the Folke Bernadotte Academy or any other responsible authority are responsible for the monitoring and review of their partners and the efforts and activities carried out. The government or myself as a minister cannot and should not regulate in detail what parties the authorities should have or what actions are most appropriate. With regard to troop contributions, the UN has a target of 6.5% for 2020, but it is now reaching only 4.8%. Here Sweden has more positive numbers with 20 percent in the unit that are women. As far as military observers and staff officers are concerned, the UN has set a target of 17% for 2020 to be women, and that is actually up to this year.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-321	Mr. Old President! In retrospect – I read my last question to the Foreign Minister yesterday – I think that my question really gives the Minister an opportunity to shine. I therefore ask what work on the action plan she believes has produced the best results now that the action plan expires and how the Minister has measured and evaluated this particular result. Here I feel, Mr. Old President, that I am not getting an answer. I took Mali as an example, because it is one of the three countries to which we have decided on international action in the past and we have now chosen to extend it. We also have efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan. The situation in Mali has continued to deteriorate. After the military coup earlier, work on the peace agreement seems to have completely ceased. The lack of state presence naturally creates scope for the activities of extremist violent groups. Terror attacks are carried out regularly against both civilians and the military. Women's participation in peace processes is extremely limited. The Constitution prohibits discrimination on grounds of sex, but women's enjoyment of human rights is generally limited. Genital mutilation of girls and women is not prohibited and is widespread. Gender-based violence is a widespread problem. Islamist groups opposed to women's rights have grown stronger. Gender equality is a prerequisite and a driving force for poverty reduction and democratic social development. It's not going in the right direction at all. On women's rights in Afghanistan, I find written questions and interpellations long back in time here in Parliament. Magda Gad, who has been a lot in Afghanistan, has said in a report from the country: Women and girls must not even go out alone in Afghanistan. Afghanistan is a male society. Mr. Old President! Globally, men are over-represented in suicide statistics, but in Afghanistan 80% of suicides are committed by women. Many have been married before the age of ten and have suffered rapes and beatings and that even in-laws have abused them. However, schools have been set up, roads have been built and water drawn, but what we are seeing today is that the situation is worse. There's a record number of people dying. Women are very vulnerable, and local organisations say that violence against women is increasing. It's not going in the right direction at all. If you're going to make a change, you have to fundamentally change the country, but you haven't succeeded in doing that. The security situation in Iraq is still poor and can deteriorate rapidly. The fight against terrorist organisations continues. The risk of terrorist acts is significant in large parts of the country. The Iraqi Constitution declares men and women equal. Yet men have the legal right to punish their wives, and rape within marriage is permitted. On public spaces in the capital, only men are visible, and at each intersection are armed male soldiers and police officers. It's not going in the right direction at all. Mr. Old President! When does the Foreign Minister think we can see a noticeable improvement in the position of Malian, Afghan and Iraqi women? When you consider the question, the follow-up question is rather quick: Are we doing the right things? Do we need to do more of the same when things don't get better, or do we need to think new? And does the Foreign Minister intend to try to think again and see if we need to do better? If you do not have sufficiently clear objectives, do not evaluate enough and follow up the results, that question may be difficult to answer.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-331	Mr. Old President! As the interpellant pointed out in a debate with the Minister for Defence in November, the work on gender equality in international efforts is not isolated from the communities in which the efforts operate. And it is actually as bad as Alexandra Anstrell says and as Magda Gad and others have pointed out, not least in Afghanistan. Sweden's support to UN Women in Mali is an example of an effort that has strengthened women's participation in conflict resolution locally and contributed to the development of recommendations to implement Resolution 1325. Supporting the Malian Ministry of Reconciliation, the Folke Bernadotte Academy has been able to develop the Malian Authority's capacity for dialogue and mediation, including women's participation. Another example is the gender mainstreaming training that the Malian ministries participated in during 2018 and 2019. I can also mention that in January of this year Margareta Wahlström from the Swedish mediation network for women led a meeting with 200 Malian participants with the aim of producing concrete proposals for women's inclusion in Mali's peace process. As regards Afghanistan, all personnel included in the Swedish grant have been trained in the knowledge and practical application of Resolution 1325. This also applies to the efforts in Iraq. This is a well-established part of the training that all Swedish personnel receive before they go to Afghanistan and Iraq. It shows that this will have an effect. I was actually going to mention the action plan in my first speech to make a difference. But I'll have to shine now instead. There will soon be an evaluation of the Swedish action plan for Sweden's work for women, peace and security. It is not yet public yet, but it shows that there is a broad strategic impact, extensive work on education and capacity-building, a broad work on gender mainstreaming within all relevant authorities. It also shows that the system of posted and funded gender equality advisors and experts in conflict-related sexual and gender-based violence works and that increased support is given to civil society.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-339	Mr. Old President! I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply and look forward to reading what the Foreign Minister was doing. Isn't it nice to be able to shine? When the war came to Mali, both rebels and Islamist groups directed their violence against women. Systematic rapes and forced poisons became part of their exercise of power. Aisha, a surviving woman, has told us that one day when she had bought rice at the market, a group of Islamists followed her all the way home. They claimed that she had no sign of her body according to their rules, and they took her to what they called a sharia prison. Aisha has a different description. It was a prison for sex slaves. She said: Every night 12 13 men passed my cell. So was and is in Mali. Between 2014 and 2019, Sweden reportedly invested nearly SEK 5 billion in aid to Afghanistan. How much was achieved is not really appreciated, because Afghanistan is one of the world's most corrupt countries. In Afghanistan, women are still discriminated against in all parts of society, and according to Sida, the number of women is more than 90 per cent exposed to gender-based violence. 47 per cent of children of primary school age do not attend school, and 75 per cent of them are girls. Among those over 15 years of age, only 24 percent can read. The war against IS in Iraq has contributed to an increase in gender-related violence. Both legislation and justice systems in Iraq discriminate against women. Are we doing the right thing? Aisha and all other women have the right to their own body and the right to their freedom. Do we not, then, have a responsibility to better follow up the efforts that are being made and when we decide on new ones to know that the efforts that have already been made worked? Thank you and Merry Christmas!
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-347	Mr. Old President! Let me say a few more words about the action plan. It has certainly increased its commitment to the issues. There are eleven active national authorities working with civil society, so the Swedish government, authorities and civil society really make a difference in the world. It is about capacity development, expertise, active support for various civil society organisations and so on. What Alexandra Anstrell talks about is an example of a reality that we unfortunately see in many countries. That is why it is so important to insist that women be involved in the work on peace agreements. There is often sexualised violence in the conflicts in Afghanistan, Iraq and elsewhere in the world. If women are not involved in the peace negotiations, this is not addressed as part of the conflict, but as normal violence against women. Then there will be no accountability towards the governments and defence forces that have done this. It is therefore extremely important that women be included in, for example, peace negotiations. For example, I have worked a lot on the situation of women in Yemen. They are very knowledgeable and skilled but must not be involved anywhere because this is not considered an important issue. If we can counter the backlash we see in the EU, the OSSE and the UN against women being present in all areas, we are doing something really important that can change the situation of women and girls in the world. I wish the interpeller and the old president a Merry Christmas.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-352	Mr. Old President! Ludvig Aspling has asked me whether I see any connection between the theoretical starting points of integration policy and the problems we have with segregation and unemployment and whether I believe it is time for an overall assessment of the effects of integration policy since 1998. Let me begin by saying that no, I have not taken note of any studies that indicate that unemployment depends on the theoretical starting points of integration policy. The starting points of integration policy are not the cause of the challenges we face today either. As the Government states in the budget proposal for 2021, there are several factors that affect the establishment of women and men born abroad in the labour market, such as previous work experience, education level, language skills, health, networks and how long the person has been in Sweden but also discrimination in the labour market. The number of persons employed outside Europe born has increased sharply, with 125 000 women and 187 500 men since 2007. The employment rate in 2019 was 57% for non-European births compared with 70% for domestic births. The establishment of newcomers has also improved gradually over a long period of time. In order to improve and speed up the establishment of new arrivals, social orientation for new arrivals and similar efforts during the asylum period is an important part. All newcomers must have access to relevant information about Swedish society, including basic democratic principles on gender equality, human rights and children's rights. In 2020, the government has increased the social orientation of new arrivals from at least 60 to at least 100 hours. The budget proposal for 2021 proposes strengthening both the community introduction and the Migration Agency offer asylum seekers as well as social information within the structure of early interventions for asylum seekers. Foreign births generally have a weaker position on the labour market than domestic births, not least foreign born women. In previous crises, unemployment has increased significantly more among foreign born than among natives and also from higher levels. This happened during the 2008 financial crisis and even now during the Corona crisis. For a long time, Statistics Sweden has the government's mission to present register statistics on integration. This is done in the areas of labour market, housing, demography, democracy, economy, migration patterns, health and education. This is an important basis for the government's follow-up and accounting to the Riksdag of developments for foreign born children, especially those born outside Europe, as happens in the budget bill. In the Government's long-term strategy to reduce and counteract segregation, the Government points out that integration and segregation are two distinct phenomena, albeit to some extent interconnected. Simplified integration is about the extent to which people who have immigrated to Sweden participate in working and social life while segregation is about the separation of groups. Good integration is likely to reduce some negative effects of segregation but does not have to have a direct impact on segregation in relation to, for example, housing and school. Let me conclude by being very clear. The development of increasing socio-economic segregation in Sweden must be reversed, and integration must work better. We must continue to work towards achieving the goal of reducing segregation, equal and equal upbringing and living conditions and good life chances for all.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-362	Mr. Old President! Sweden today suffers from a plethora of problems based on the fact that a large group of people in society, which consists mainly of foreign-born and second-generation immigrants, live in strong isolation from the rest of society. The isolation makes the alienation a legacy. It gives rise to material and knowledge-based poverty and leads to cultural values that glorify crime, religious separatism and disrespect for the majority society. At the same time, Sweden is the OECD country that spends the most money on so-called integration policies but probably also the country that has the greatest problems with segregation. The question is whether it is a paradox or a logical consequence, that is: Does segregation in Sweden increase despite or because of integration policy? In order to examine this issue, I would like to go back to the theoretical starting points underlying integration policy, which are reflected in a bill called Sweden, the future and diversity – from immigration policy to integration policy. According to the preparatory work, integration policy is based on the freedom of choice objective, i.e. that it should be entirely up to the immigrant to choose in which part it wants to become part of the majority culture and society, and the equality objective, which says that everyone should have equal rights and opportunities, regardless of cultural background. In practice, this means that a person who comes to Sweden and who chooses not to supplement his cultural background by learning Swedish or how culture, society or the economy works should have the same opportunities and rights to welfare as a person who makes an effort to do all of this. We see this as completely absurd. I also see it as absolutely self-evident that the economic segregation that we have today is a direct consequence of the two objectives. I would like to stress to the House that I know what I am talking about. I have lived about six years outside Europe. I have been a very well integrated immigrant in Japan, among other things. To become part of a completely foreign culture and a completely foreign labour market is much more difficult than many Swedes, perhaps especially within the Government Office, seem to understand. It requires work, patience, willingness to compromise with values, willingness to accept another workplace culture, which can be very difficult in some countries, and often a willingness to start over from the bottom, at the bottom of the labour market ladder. In many cases, none of this will happen as long as it is optional, and certainly not if the rest of the welfare system is there to compensate for those people who choose not to do their best. I would therefore like to ask the Government whether she sees a link between the choice objective and the equality objective and the problems of segregation that we see in Sweden today and whether she would be willing to initiate an investigation to clarify the effects that the transition to integration policy has had on Swedish society in a slightly larger perspective.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-368	Mr. Old President! No, I don't see that connection. When it comes to segregation and the growing gaps in Sweden, it is a development that has taken place over a long period of time. Where segregation has increased, the single most important factor that drives this is the economic divide. We would need to talk a lot more about it in the public debate and understand this. I know that there can be different views in politics about whether gaps are good or bad. I belong to those politicians who believe much more in an equal society. I think it benefits both those who are well-off and those who are tougher in society. My conviction is that one of the factors that has built Sweden into an incredible country – one of the richest and most successful countries in the world – is that we have built a society with a strong welfare state where we have clearly said that in this country we will do what we can to extend a helping hand to those who need it. It can happen to all of us at some point in our lives. As far as segregation is concerned, the major problem today is the growing gaps that we have seen and which are hitting children's growing-up conditions. We have a school segregation that means that not all children in our society have the opportunity to get a good education, which is one of the most important things in a child's life, not least when it comes to children in vulnerable situations, children who are victims of domestic violence, children who grow up in poverty and children who are at increased risk of getting involved in crime. If you pass school, get help and support to get approved grades, enter high school and complete your schooling, you have much better opportunities to do well in life. I'm very happy to talk about the problem of segregation. I am also happy to talk about our integration challenges. There is also much to say, because these are extremely important issues. But if we are talking about segregation, we must also talk about the divisions that exist in society. I would like to say a few words about integration. It is my conviction that we will become a stronger society if we affirm each other's differences and if we see that we are all human beings and that we can live differently and have different cultures and so on. But what is crucial on these issues is something that I sometimes think is presented in the debate. The fact that we are sometimes different is, of course, not at all something that can be taken as revenue for violating human rights, not respecting children's rights or not complying with Swedish legislation. It goes without saying that we must all support these common values. We do not accept the violation of human rights or accept the equal value of all human beings. There is no contradiction in this. We can carry different cultures, but, of course, when it comes to human rights, there is never any acceptance that they are not respected. There's a lot to say. I am happy to talk about integration policy and segregation policy, which, of course, has links but which must not be linked because they are different policy areas. I think it is important to include this in the discussions. Segregation can of course hinder good integration, but it is not integration that is the most important factor when we talk about what drives segregation.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-376	Mr. Old President! I think it was good that the Government raised the issue of human rights and the importance of culture there. A decisive difference in how I and the Government view this issue applies to what norms and values should apply in Sweden. The bill states that integration policy should make it easier for the individual to integrate old and new life patterns and lifestyles in the way he wishes, and that this is a prerequisite for man to develop a whole identity and be proud of his background and that a multicultural society consists of a diversity of values and approaches that gradually affect each other. We can ignore the doubtful hypothesis that multiculturalism in Sweden is a prerequisite for foreigners to feel proud of their background, which all people who themselves have gone through that process know is nonsense. Instead, I would like to focus on the diversity of values that one would like to highlight. A valuation that I know the Government is aware of has become increasingly common in Sweden in recent years is that of so-called honor, which somewhat simplified means that a family or clan sees women as property rather than people and sees it as their task to protect this property by limiting their freedom and life choices in different ways. On the one hand, the government is happy and often argues that it is trying to combat the standard of honour, but at the same time it is behind the idea of a diversity of values, without limiting principle, that is to say that all values are welcome. There is also an obvious contradiction between the goal of freedom of choice and the goal of a diversity of values, because, for example, the wife and children of a family in which the father chooses to adhere to the standard of honor will never have the opportunity to choose to become part of the Swedish gender equality standard, if they would like to. Freedom to choose values can mean that some choices restrict freedom for others. I would therefore like to know how the Government is thinking about this. If a multicultural society consists of a diversity of values and approaches that gradually affect each other, as it says in the bill, how does the Government think that, for example, the standard of equality – i.e. that men and women are equally worth – should be affected by the standard of honor, which brings forward the opposite view? If the Government wants gender equality to prevail in Sweden, which I hope, I wonder if it is not time to change the political direction, which now says that all values should be welcome.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-382	Mr. Old President! I would like to mention a word that the Member of Parliament said, and which I found useful in this regard, that all values should be welcome. Because it's nonsense. There is no doubt whatsoever, anywhere, that we do not accept values that violate human rights – which violate children's rights. One of the starting points for my whole political commitment is that we should stand up for the equal value of all people, and I will never accept that we violate that principle. I will never accept that some people in society are seen as less worthy or that we have children in our schools who are exposed to racism – never! It is a starting point for my entire political commitment. Not all values are welcome; it is nonsense to claim such a thing. When it comes to the opportunity to welcome people to Sweden in the best possible way, it is of course extremely important that we work with providing practical information when people come to our country. How do our schools work? How does preschool work? How to get home insurance? How does our labour market work? How does the establishment programme work? The establishment programme has made us better at establishing people who come to Sweden on the labour market. The figures and statistics have improved. It is also about working with issues such as what our Swedish legislation looks like and how we view human rights, and gender equality issues are of course crucial. Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries, although we really have a long way to go before we are equal. These are, of course, very important issues. It is also important to give people good opportunities to take in the Swedish language and get help and support in it. There I find it interesting that the Swedish Democrats in their budget motion remove all the integration measures where SEK 172 million goes to civil society, among other things, so that people can get support in improving their Swedish. There are also efforts for parental leave, i.e. to be able to practice in the language and to build networks even during parental leave. It is something we know really has great significance for women in particular. After all, there are many more women on parental leave, and they benefit greatly from this effort. I welcome a discussion on integration policy. What can we do better to welcome people to Sweden? In my budget speech last Monday, I mentioned that we are ranked very high in, among other things, the Migrant Integration Policy Index, which has come today. They also had a ranking five years ago, and then Sweden became top. But it doesn't matter that we get top positions, because we have a lot of work to do. This applies not least to foreign-born women and their opportunities in the labour market; we do not take advantage of women's potential. These issues are therefore very important. There is also a great job done not least by civil society around municipalities, authorities and regions in Sweden, but we need to improve integration. I do not think there is any politician who would stand here in Parliament's pulpit and say anything else. We also need to combat segregation, and here I return to the fact that we need to work to reduce the economic divides in society. You in the Swedish Democrats want in your budget motion to give 10 000 SEK to all Swedish citizens in Sweden, Ludvig Aspling, which I think is quite the wrong way to spend 82 billion SEK. Why, for example, should you and I get $10,000 more in our pocket? Instead, we need to invest resources in those who are the toughest in society – the children who grow up in child poverty. That is what we need to do to reduce social divides and combat the root causes of segregation.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-390	Mr. Old President! There was a lot going on here, so I won't be able to answer all the questions. However, I was going to say something briefly about Mipex. The Government highlights this as a success, but what does Mipex, Åsa Lindhagen, measure? Mipex only measures how much benefits – cash benefits – and the right to welfare – the country provides. It doesn't measure anything else. How well people succeed in the labour market and so on Mipex does not measure at all, so this is hardly a reason to exult. I would like to ask a brief follow-up question about the fact that one important aspect of integration policy is that Sweden should not be a majority culture. It is said in the bill as follows: and the integration processes are mutual in the sense that everyone is involved and co-responsible in them and everyone must contribute. Integration is not just a question of and for immigrants. In a society of ethnic and cultural diversity, people should complement each other and mutually contribute their skills and life experience. ..................................................... I would like to ask the Government if she is living as she teaches on this issue. Åsa Lindhagen was Socialborgsråd i Stockholms stad before she got her current position – I congratulate her, if I haven't done it before! I suspect she's been living in Stockholm ever since. For example, in Rinkeby-Kista and Husby in Stockholm City, where I attended high school myself, there is a large diaspora of people from Somalia. If it is so, as the Government claims, that the integration processes are mutual in the sense that everyone is involved and must contribute – yes, it means that it is the State Council and my task to teach us somali to the same extent as it is the Somalis' task to learn Swedish. That's what the bill says. Therefore, it should reasonably be part of the Government's task or mission to set an example, so I would like to ask how much somali the Government has learned so far.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-394	Mr. Old President! Now I think it got a little messy again. From my point of view, it is not the case that everyone born and raised in Sweden needs to learn, for example, Somali or any other language we have in this country. That would be quite unreasonable. However, I think it's very nice if people born in Sweden want to learn Somali; it's really something that can be encouraged. For my part, I do not know any words in this language. I find it interesting that the debates on integration are becoming very black and white. If we see in an index that looks at different success factors for what can give good integration that Sweden is in the top position, I am of course not at all surprised that this is something that does not really fit in with the political debate, because that is not, of course, the image of the Swedish democrats of a country that is in chaos. Of course, I think it is a bit sad that the debate looks like that, because I would much rather see a debate that was a bit more nuanced and where we saw that there are things we do in Sweden that are good. We have people around our society who are working hard every day to give people a good welcome to Sweden. We also see people who have come here to our country and every day make fantastic efforts to strengthen Sweden and our welfare. At the same time, we see that we have major integration challenges. We need to be better not least when it comes to people's ability to establish themselves in the labour market and when it comes to giving children a good start in Sweden. That's what I'd like to talk to you about. I find it difficult to talk about integration issues when we constantly return to the fact that the solution to the problems is that no people should come to Sweden – and perhaps also, you think in a certain part of politics, that people are happy to leave the country again. It makes it difficult in the debate to actually figure out what measures we can take to improve, and that is what drives me in politics.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-398	Mr. Old President! Ludvig Aspling has asked me whether I intend to work to ensure that a survey among people who identify themselves as Muslims is carried out at the initiative of the government in Sweden. The question states, among other things, that the survey should be carried out to create a picture of how Muslims' values differ from the majority society. The answer to Ludvig Aspling's question is no. I do not intend to initiate such an investigation. A study of the kind that Ludvig Aspling refers to would not be possible or appropriate to carry out, because we do not keep records of Swedes on the basis of religion or ideology. In Sweden, everyone has protection from being forced to provide information to authorities and other public activities regarding their views in political, religious, cultural or other respects. This protection is one of the pillars of democracy. The government takes very seriously the terrorist attacks that have hit France and Austria in the autumn. The work to strengthen Sweden's preparedness and the work to combat terrorism has been going on for several years. P lilsagenten and the Swedish Security Service continuously update their situational assessments and work to prevent similar actions from taking place in Sweden. The government has established a national centre against violent extremism within the Crime Prevention Council. The Centre will strengthen and develop preventive work against violent extremism. In addition, the Government intends to take further measures to prevent the serious development of extremism and radicalisation. The government considers it urgent to criminalise participation in a terrorist organisation. The government has therefore mandated a parliamentary committee to investigate whether there should be increased scope to restrict the constitutionally protected freedom of association in relation to terrorist organisations. Within the framework of the National Plan against Racism, similar forms of hostility and hate crime, the Government has undertaken specific efforts to strengthen its capacity to prevent, resist and deal with crisis situations caused by racism and extremism. Among other things, the County Administrative Board of Dalarna has been tasked with developing working forms to combat social risks with a focus on racism and extremism. Furthermore, the school has a democratic mission. Students should learn about democracy and human rights. Fundamental democratic values and respect for human rights should permeate the school's learning environment. The goal is for students to develop abilities to act actively in democracy. Racism and extremism are at odds with the principle of the equal value of all human beings and can ultimately lead to violent extremism and terrorism affecting many people and large parts of society. Violent extremism, wherever it originates, is directed against our democratic values with the aim of damaging open society. To attack other people with violence, hatred and threats for ideological reasons or in the name of religion we can never accept. Racism and extremism must be combated and combated everywhere and at all levels of society. It is a long-term work where responsibility lies with all of us – every day in every part of our society.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-405	Mr. Old President! After a series of particularly brutal terrorist attacks in France and Austria in recent times, the Swedish Prime Minister said about violent Islamism that it should meet through cohesion, a uncompromising defence of our democratic standards and institutions and solidarity between the countries affected and threatened by terror. I naturally agree with the Prime Minister on this. But he forgets something that is even more important, namely deeper knowledge of how great the threat is, where it comes from and who might bear these violent Islamic values. It is not only the case that Sweden stands out in an international perspective as regards the number of people who have travelled from here to join terrorist groups such as IS, our neglected and toothless terror legislation, the tendency of authorities to pour millions of tax crowns over non-profit associations run by Islamists or the possibility of having terrorist war trips funded by the Social Insurance Agency. It is also the case that Sweden stands out in terms of lack of interest to investigate how serious the problem of violent Islamism actually is. In other European countries, opinion polls are regularly conducted among people who identify themselves as Muslims in order to create a picture of how their values differ from those of the majority society – if they are at all different; that is not obvious. After recent attacks in France, a politically independent NGO called the Committee for a secular republic commissioned such an opinion poll, which gave a rather surprising result. According to the study, 57 percent of French Muslims over 25 years believe that the Qur'an should prevail over French law. This is an increase of 10 percentage points in just four years. Sixty-six per cent of all persons who identify themselves as Muslims believe that teachers should not be allowed to display cartoons of religious figures in their teaching, and 75 per cent are in favour of bearing clear religious symbols or religious dress at work, even in the public sector, which is not allowed in France according to their principle of l aïcité. Other studies on the same theme from a number of countries show that the problem is recurrent. The question then is why a corresponding study has never been carried out in Sweden. My guess is that the government has a pretty good picture through informal channels but that you simply do not want the public to know how it really is. Unlike the government, we believe that honesty lasts the longest. What the Government says in its interpellation response that this would not be possible because of register legislation is an obvious evasion. If the Government looks at the title of my interpellation, she sees that there are people who identify themselves as Muslims. It is therefore not a question of the Swedish state registering someone or pasting a label to someone, but it is free to participate in such a survey if you identify yourself in this way. It's entirely up to everyone. It is also the case that registry legislation is ultimately European. We have a regulation on personal data. As such surveys are carried out in France, Austria, Germany and all kinds of countries across the Union, it cannot be the case that Union legislation on registers puts an end to this. I see that as completely unthinkable. If we therefore skip the explanations, Åsa Lindhagen, and are honest instead, why do you not want such a study to be carried out in Sweden?
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-415	Mr. Old President! I regret the conspiratorial tone that exists, but so is life in politics on and off. With regard to these issues, it is extremely important that we have knowledge of violent extremism. This is also why we have started the Centre against violent extremism, both to develop preventive work and to provide support to municipalities that need support and guidance, for example. It is also important that we constantly have research to see what development looks like. I do not oppose knowledge; on the contrary, I accept and welcome it. We need more knowledge in a variety of areas. Among other things, three research studies are currently underway dealing with the threat from Salafist and Salafist-jihadist environments in Sweden, which can provide more knowledge about Salafist influence on society. There we will be able to learn more about the threat. There is also a threat from the radical-nationalist environment, and there is also a report on that threat to society and our democracy. I believe that this type of research study and report is extremely important in order to better prevent terrorism and the fundamental threat to democracy that exists in our society today. There, the Swedish Defence University has an important role to play, which brings out more knowledge. Of course, it is also a matter for Mr Säpo to keep track of the threats to our democracy. In this collection of knowledge, it is of course also very important to see which individuals there are in society that can pose threats. It is absolutely essential for us to be able to protect our society. So this is important. I welcome knowledge and research on this so that we can constantly better protect our society from acts of terrorism.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-421	Mr. Old President! The position of the Government on this matter is difficult to understand. We'll have more knowledge, but at the same time we'll have less knowledge. I don't know. The government has set up an authority called the Center against violent extremism, which in turn has produced a report that was published this year. The report is called The violent Islamic environment and will provide a knowledge base on the nature and extent of the problem. Chapter 8 of the report is called, "The extent of the violence-promoting Islamist environment" and it states:"In a register study from 2018, based on data from the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Police Authority, nearly 800 individuals in the study population were assessed as belonging to the violent Islamist environment. However, the environment is likely to be more extensive than the number of individuals present in the criminal and suspect register. ..................................................... Of course, I agree with the assessment that the environment is probably greater, but in order to assess the extent of the problem in the longer term, it is not enough to examine the number of persons suspected of crime. What is interesting is to examine the number of people who carry this kind of values. This is not accessible with the type of government data to which the Government refers. It is because if the number of people who think, for example, that democracy should be replaced by the Koran is very large, which, of course, I do not hope, it is a breeding ground for those people who then want to do battle in the matter, so to speak. François Kraus, from a French centre for a secular republic that I mentioned in my first speech, has researched the matter and puts it this way: Nevertheless, this survey shows that a significant comment of Muslim your share with these Islamists the idea that the laws were reserved by their religion must take precedence o over French law. ..................................................... That is precisely why this type of opinion poll is so important, in order to give a picture of the future potential risk. The question returns to the Government. I would like to know, if we can ignore these excuses, why we do not really want to produce these facts. I find it incomprehensible. There are many people today who identify themselves as Muslims and who are heartily tired of seeing that people belonging to their own religion express all sorts of distasteful views in public forums or in various associations and so on. They'd love to make their own voice heard. I know one or two of these people myself. Such a study could certainly be an excellent opportunity for the majority of Swedish Muslims who do not have such values to express themselves and show it to the rest of the country. Such a study could also be a good way of creating a debate. I definitely believe that the debate on the place of religion in society would be useful for this group. I think it would be useful. So there are more reasons than that. If we ignore these excuses now and instead are honest with each other – I think that would be good – I wonder: why do you not want such a study to be carried out?
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-431	Mr. Old President! I agree with what the honourable Member said about the need to ensure that we do not paint Muslims as a group in negative terms. I am convinced, as the honourable Member pointed out, that there are many Muslims in society who are very concerned about how Muslims are described. There is a fear of threats, hatred, racism and the Islamophobia that exists in society. People may feel a concern about moving in the public space, not least women. I regard this as extremely serious, and we, from the political side, must stand up for the equal value of all people and never portray groups of people, minorities in our society, in negative terms, because it is dangerous for a society to do so. I also think, with regard to the issue of knowledge, that we have good authorities that I have great confidence in and who work day and night to identify threats to Sweden, follow developments and make assessments of the threat of terrorism. There is the assessment that the main terrorist threat in Sweden comes from Islamic and right-wing-extremist-motivated terrorism. We constantly need to follow this and see how the threat develops, and we need to constantly acquire more knowledge. I also believe that exchanging knowledge between countries is extremely important. Knowledge, of course, is crucial, and it is not the case that nothing is being done at present. This works with actors like the Swedish Defence University to follow, as well as Säpo and several of our agencies. I think it is important to constantly develop that work and continue to increase knowledge. It is not something that I or the government are in any way opposed to.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-436	Mr. Old President! How nice that Åsa Lindhagen and I can agree on something this Christmas time! I think that's amazing. I think, however, that we are talking past each other a little. The government information that Åsa Lindhagen refers to is by nature something other than what we are talking about here. Authorities cannot replace this type of information. What the authorities are doing is they're watching. They may be looking for signals, they may be looking at the open network, or they may have other types of more informal networks that collect information — and they may also be able to collect information from abroad. There are many different methods for creating such a picture. But it's something else. It examines those who are already active in the violent Islamic environment. What I am looking for is more to examine what the longer-term risk is for people who are not active in this environment today to be in the future. That's what this is about. Such an opinion poll aims to find out both the size of the potential recruitment base for these organisations and how the size of the potential recruitment base changes over time – that is, just what the French opinion poll showed, namely that certain values, which I do not think are appropriate, become very much more common over a period of four years. This is what such an opinion poll could capture, and that is the information that unfortunately the current government work cannot capture. Finally, I would like to put the question this way: does the Government believe that the information that could come from such an opinion poll can be replaced by something that the authorities are doing today?
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-443	Mr. Old President! I welcome the fact that we are constantly considering new ways of finding information and looking at how we can better acquire knowledge. I am also thinking of this as an important task for our authorities to consider. That is their job, and I think they are more suitable than we politicians to make those assessments: what is it that we need for knowledge and information? What methods do we need to use to assess the threat? In the long term, it is of course extremely important to see how the development takes place over time. How does the threat develop? Reduces or increases it, and what do we need to do to address the threats that exist in society? The Centre against violent extremism has a mission to strengthen and develop the preventive work against terrorism, and I think that the most important thing is that we work to reduce the threat that exists in society today that creates fear in people and tensions in society and is also a threat to people's lives. The terrorism that we have seen with terrible attacks that have taken place is a threat both to people who can lose their lives and to our democracy. I welcome the fact that, not least, our authorities are constantly developing their work and looking at how we can better protect society against terrorism. They look at how we can be better at gathering information and knowing what we need to do to combat both Islamist and anti-rightist terrorism, which is the greatest threat to Sweden today. I think it is extremely important that this work continues.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-448	Mr. Old President! Jan Ericson has asked me what plan I have to quickly improve Sweden's position as one of the six seven countries in the EU where, unfortunately, unemployment is highest. The outbreak of covid-19 has led to a global economic crisis, and unemployment has risen rapidly. Unemployment is not just a problem for the person who loses his job but is something that concerns us all. If we allow unemployment to persist, we risk both increasing long-term unemployment and weakening our common welfare. A person who becomes unemployed should therefore be given the opportunity to receive training and conversion and, if necessary, be able to receive support to find a new job. We also need to ensure the financial security of the person who loses his job. In 2020, the government has provided funding for more unemployed people to get into work while the Swedish Public Employment Service has been strengthened in order to manage notice and more newly registered unemployed people. In the budget proposal for 2021, the Government proposes a strong green start-up package for the Swedish economy of over SEK 100 billion. Overall, the budget, including investments in climate change and investment in welfare, is estimated to create around 75,000 more jobs. The OECD Employment Outlook 2020 shows that comparisons between countries of unemployment on the trail of the pandemic should be made with great caution. The crisis has affected the collection and calculation methods of labour market statistics. In addition, restrictions have made job search more difficult, which has led to a reduction in labour force participation in many countries. Sweden has the highest participation rate in the EU, which has been maintained at the same level as before the crisis. This is an important reason why unemployment in Sweden has increased in relation to many other countries. Sweden still has the highest employment rate in the EU aged 20-64. If you want to reflect activity in the economy, the number of hours actually worked is a relevant measure. Sweden was one of the countries in the EU where the number of hours worked fell at least during the pandemic. The government is closely monitoring developments in the labour market and is prepared to take further action if necessary.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-455	Mr. Old President! I thank the Minister for Employment for his answer. However, I have to say that we are probably talking about a few different things. The Minister's response focuses heavily on the fact that unemployment has increased significantly as a result of the pandemic. I don't question that. But my interpellation isn't really about that. The figures I mention in my interpellation relate to the situation before the pandemic. Even before the pandemic, Sweden had fallen significantly in the statistics compared to other countries. Already then we had the worst development in the labour market since 2014. The boring location, 22 out of 28 countries, had Sweden already in December 2019, before the pandemic. Sweden already had higher unemployment than the EU average last year. This has not happened since Sweden joined the EU. During the reign of the Alliance, Sweden always had lower unemployment than the EU average. Let's do it again. In my interpellation, I recall what the current Prime Minister, Stefan Löfven, promised before the 2014 elections: that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. In 2014, Sweden was 12 among the EU countries in terms of unemployment. Now we are in position 22, calculated December 2019. We do this despite the fact that the years 2014 – 2019 were characterised by a very strong boom. In 25 out of 27 EU countries, unemployment has decreased since 2014. Only in three countries has it increased. Sweden is the country across the EU where unemployment has increased most since 2014, calculated from 2014– 2019. Eva Nordmark is new to the post of Minister and cannot be blamed for what the government has done the years before she took office. But blaming the pandemic will be a little bit of an explanation. Why had Sweden succeeded so badly even before the pandemic during a Social Democratic-led government? It gave Sweden a much worse starting point to face the pandemic, with which we are now living. I think there is cause for great concern. A government that has failed in employment policy during a strong boom has rather little chance of doing something positive when times get worse. Now there are only a few weeks left of 2020, when Prime Minister Lövven's grand promise from 2014 would have been fulfilled. There is therefore reason to ask the Minister for Labour, who has long experience of the Swedish labour market, what her plans are and how she sees that we can turn this around and improve Sweden's position. Unfortunately, Sweden is today one of the six seven countries in the EU where unemployment is highest. Mr. Old President! The answer mentioned the need for labour market measures such as training and conversion. It's obvious. That's where we're in complete agreement. But that alone does not solve the problems of unemployment. There must also be someone who wants to hire. The Social Democrats often forget this question in their politics. I could stand here for hours and tell you about all the work-damaging decisions since 2014 that the government has made and all the job-creating decisions that have not been made. The fact is that today's government, with almost eerie precision, has countered the possibility of getting more employers to hire. This applies to both public and private employers. A government that has failed with its own election promise and the overall goal it had in 2014, that Sweden would be the best in the EU – now we are in place 22 out of 28 – should probably spend the Christmas holiday thinking about how things could go so wrong. What job-creating government decisions is the Minister of Labour most satisfied with during the six years that have passed since the Social Democrats and the Green Party took over government power? And what measures against unemployment does she think have worked best?
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-466	Mr. Old President! The unemployment target was an important part, a steering year, of labour market policy. It worked during the last parliamentary term. The last term of office is long overdue now, given the state of the labour market. However, the last period decreased unemployment by over 11⁄2 percentage points, and youth unemployment fell by just over 5 percentage points. Employment grew by over 300 000 persons, of which 200 000 were born abroad. At the same time, the number of hours worked continuously increased. And the whole job growth came about in regular jobs, not through subsidised employment. It feels like I said a long time ago. Today we are in the midst of the most serious crisis in the Swedish labour market in modern times. Jan Ericson asks what plan I and the government have. I would like to start by saying that during this year the government has taken historically strong measures to save Swedish jobs and companies and to reduce and mitigate the consequences for those who still lose their jobs. Only through the possibility of short-term work have hundreds of thousands of Swedes escaped the risk of losing their job. Now that the spread of infection has again increased and we need to impose additional restrictions, that system can help to save more jobs that could otherwise have disappeared. We have also decided on changes that give more rights to unemployment benefits and have increased the levels of benefits. Unemployment funds have been given additional resources to counter long processing times. We have contributed funds to the Swedish Employment Service to manage notice and more newly registered unemployed and to enable more unemployed people to get a contribution and support. We have extended the maximum time for extra services, introductory jobs and new start jobs by one year, to avoid people going back to long-term unemployment. We have also contributed funds to the municipalities to create more summer jobs for young people and jobs for young people this autumn, so that young people will get a first line of CV. In addition, we continue to expand the knowledge boost. We have provided funds for the number of study places to be expanded considerably throughout the country. Many people, too, are now taking advantage of the opportunity to study and equip themselves for the upsurge in the economy. However, we are not finished here. I am proud of what has been done, and we need to do more forward. In the budget proposal for 2021, we present historical investments of SEK 100 billion. Overall, the budget, including investments in climate change and investment in welfare, is estimated to create around 75,000 more jobs. What Mr Ericson mentions in terms of skills supply is important; we need to develop our policies further to ensure that employers, both private and public, get the skills they need to develop their businesses. It is the very foundation of work and self-sufficiency for individuals. But that is also the very basis for continuing to develop Sweden.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-473	Mr. Old President! With regard to a steering year for labour market policy, I can see that it was perhaps not a good steering year. Already in 2018, we had slipped down compared to other EU countries and had a worse development than they had. Despite the fact that new jobs were created it went slower in Sweden. We are completely behind crisis policy. We have been very constructive in the Committee on Finance and recorded quite a few proposals. We have also received many moderate proposals. We're not really happy. There are some things that haven't gone well. Some aid is difficult to seek, and some aid has gone wrong. That is why we have tabled a proposal for a committee initiative to review those things. We'll get back to that. But essentially, we believe that economic crisis policy has helped to save jobs. Mr. Old President! However, the Moderates have been pushing for several years to increase state subsidies to municipalities and regions. It is about the money that we managed to push through last spring, and it is about our budget for the coming years where we spend much more money than the government does. We do this in part so that municipalities can afford to hire more people in their businesses. The Institute of Economic Development also notes that this is important and that more permanent state grants are needed so that the municipalities really dare to hire. They are not doing so today with the temporary subsidies that are being distributed now. Here, in my opinion, are two possibilities where the government misses the chance to get the municipalities to hire more. It is not only in public activities that the government discourages employment. I can mention a few different taxes that the government has introduced. The Electronic Tax has moved the trade of electronic products from the retail network to the Internet. It has also led to more trade abroad in order to avoid the penalty tax. Now we see that many stores have to close down. There is also a threat of a penalty tax on clothing, which risks leading to the same thing. A hard-tested clothing store risks losing even more when more people buy clothes online and abroad to avoid the clothing tax. The airline tax has made it difficult for small regional airports to survive. It not only threatens jobs at the airport but strikes the entire business community in the resorts. The tax on plastic bags has already led to redundancies at one of the manufacturers of plastic bags. But now you also come with a penalty tax on disposable packaging and catering. This puts away the legs of many restaurants and cafes. This is their only chance to survive during the pandemic. Worse timing of a new penalty tax is probably hard to find. You're weakening the conditions for company cars. You're threatening a deterioration in travel expenses and an increase in vehicle taxes. All this strikes at commuting and the possibility of living and working in rural areas. It hits the sale of motor homes and light trucks. It also hits the tourism industry. The electricity supply in Sweden is not working, which is threatening many companies today. This applies to both start-up and expansion. You're talking about green jobs. Of course, it creates some new jobs, but it also knocks away some others. It is doubtful how big the net will be. In Norrland there is a large mining project that would create lots of jobs. Three years have now been waiting for a message from the government in order to get started. In the meantime, you can't hire. There are additional mining projects waiting for permission to start. The EU proposal on taxonomy hangs like a dark cloud over us and threatens large parts of the Swedish base industry: forest industry, steel industry, mining and the automotive industry. In addition, our energy supply is under threat. If the government is not able to stop this, Sweden is in very bad trouble. Now that I have listed all these things, my question is: Does the Minister for Labour think it is strange that unemployment in Sweden has increased most throughout the EU since 2014 with all these work-damaging government decisions?
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-489	Mr. Old President! It would be very interesting to also take note of what the Moderates' alternative plan to the efforts that the government is now making is. We've got a list of things the Moderates don't like. But Jan Ericson asked me what the government's plan was. It would therefore be interesting to hear about your plan and yours. As soon as you have the opportunity, you will slaughter the resources for labour market policy and reduce the financial security of those who are unemployed. How does it contribute to more jobs? You can think about that. It would be interesting to have an answer to that. I have very clearly described the efforts made by the government this year. It is important to remember the virus that is at the root of the situation that many people find themselves in now that they have lost their job. We have taken historically strong action. Let's keep it up. Next year we will invest more than SEK 100 billion. This will lead to some 75,000 new jobs. I would like to add what is happening in labour market policy beyond what I have already talked about. It is important that people feel secure in the transition. We must also maintain the purchasing power of the economy. We do this through good and well-functioning unemployment insurance. Arbetsförmedlingen's administrative grant will be increased by SEK 1 billion. It is both about being able to meet the increased number of job seekers and about ensuring a local presence and equal accessibility throughout the country. More than SEK 700 million is invested in labour market training. SEK 1 billion will be invested in order for more unemployed people to benefit from matching services. SEK 100 million is invested in the introduction of an intensive year. SEK 500 million is invested in introductory jobs and additional services. A very important part of the government's policy, which I and the Minister for Education Anna Ekström talk about together, is that we need to ensure more education in labour market policy and have a greater job focus in education policy. Today, many people are out of work. At the same time, many employers are looking for the right skills and want to hire. This applies both in private and in public activities. There are plenty of jobs to apply for. However, we see that many people who are currently unemployed are far from the labour market due to skills and training shortages. As a result, labour market policies aim very much at the use of education and training to strengthen the ability of individuals to enter the labour market. It also aims at employers' ability to employ the right skills. Basically, this is what an effective labour market policy is all about. Employers, companies and the public sector should be able to employ the right skills so that they can develop their activities and so that people can get a job, development and an opportunity for self-support.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-498	Mr. Old President! Thank you for the final play. I can agree with you here. Many of the things listed by the Minister for Employment are things that we Moderates also find valuable. The problem is that we have heard these words from government representatives and from Eva Nordmark's representatives in every debate since 2014, but it has not produced any results. It's gone the wrong way. What the Moderates want to do instead, I don't have time to pull in two minutes, but just look at our budget bill. We need to see the whole of our policy. We showed during the years of the alliance that we could have a good development during the boom but also that we managed the financial crisis better than virtually all countries in our world. Unfortunately, today's government succeeds worse than any other country despite a strong boom, and that is not a successful conclusion. In 2014, Sweden was 12th out of 28 countries in the EU in terms of unemployment. That's when the Alliance handed over power. Today, we are 22nd out of 28 countries, even though the Prime Minister promised that this year we would be in first place. You can't call this anything but total failure. In 25 out of 27 EU countries, unemployment has decreased between 2014 and 2019. In just three countries it has increased, and Sweden is the country where it has increased most of all countries throughout the EU. This has happened despite Eva Nordmark's claim that so many things have been done that are so good, so successful and so forward-looking. Yet we have succeeded the worst of all countries throughout the European Union. As I said, I am not blaming Eva Nordmark, because she is new to her post and cannot be loaded for what has happened before. However, I think that Eva Nordmark should be able to admit in her last speech that this is actually a failure and that something else is required. Obviously, this hasn't worked.
i-329a307bf20ac4ad-504	Mr. Old President! I would like to start by recalling what I said in the introduction. Comparative statistics between countries are very difficult, especially in the situation we are in now. Of course, I am very interested in how our country is doing, even in relation to other countries. Of course, the most important thing is that we have many hours worked, that people can have their own livelihood and so on. I note that Sweden is doing very well in terms of the number of hours worked. We haven't lost as much as many others have. But it's too early to evaluate. We are in the midst of a pandemic and in the midst of a serious crisis in the labour market. I would like to draw the attention of those listening to this debate to the fact that last Wednesday the Finance Minister could tell us that the economic recovery in the autumn was stronger than we and many other forecasters expected. The labour market has been pleasantly surprised during the autumn. That is why we have revised the employment rate forecast by about half a percent. That means 30,000 more jobs compared to the previous assessment. It remains a very serious situation in the labour market, but we will come back. If someone is watching this debate and is unemployed himself or is concerned about the tough situation we have, let me say: it is not over. Keep looking for a job! Keep thinking about education – maybe now is the time to go to an education? There are many vacancies to apply for. There's plenty of work in the care. Nurses and nurses are needed. Basic school teachers, preschool teachers, software system developers, warehouse staff and many other important professions are also needed. The government has provided funds to greatly expand the number of study places. Take advantage of the opportunity to further train yourself! This is a tough time, but we're gonna get through it together. I thank Jan Ericson and Mr President-in-Office for the debate. I wish you a Merry Christmas and a really happy New Year.
i-XKya2HSnjzDz2YmR3Rr7Et	You too! )
