i-d227982d9f42a3dc-0	I request that Your Majesty declare the Parliamentary Session open.
i-CUfZXhk7EpE42aczFUKJ2s	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday afternoon 5,837 Swedish inhabitants had died with covid-19, to great sorrow for theirs and to the loss of our country. In the wake of the pandemic, people have seen their lives destroyed. Many, especially the elderly, have had to live in prolonged isolation. Medical care and its courageous associates have been tested hard and have done outstanding work. We are all deeply grateful. Today we know far more about this virus and how it spreads than we did only six months ago. Knowledge is greater and the basis for decision is better, and it is comforting. Yet uncertainty continues to be great. The pandemic is far from over. At the same time, other challenges remain. Climate change, unemployment, crime and mental illness are among the problems that have a major impact on our future and that continue to wait to be resolved. That work must not stop. It also remains an urgent task to safeguard our democracy. For four years up to 2022, Parliament's celebration of the first hundred years of Swedish democracy is taking place – an anniversary that has a special impact on the development of events in our surrounding world. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The pandemic has put Sweden and the world in a position that places demands on all of us. We need to adapt, rethink and find new ways forward. Sweden has always done so, and it is also doing so today. We see it in general as in small and entire society – in business, culture, health care, elderly care and education, in new technical solutions, new ways of working, new forms of meetings, socializing and experiences. This also applies to the important work of the Riksdag. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The opening of the Parliamentary Session has been in this form since 1975, and during these years I have probably never seen as many empty benches at the opening as today. The government has fewer ministers than usual. The diplomatic corps is represented, as I understand it, only by an ambassador. Even my own family has limited their presence. It is a different ceremony, but it also shows Sweden's ability to adapt and to be in time. The forms are partly new, but the tradition is maintained. Our society continues to work. You, ladies and gentlemen, continue to manage the trust that citizens have given you to make wise and informed decisions for the benefit of our country and everyone who lives here. It is a responsibility that weighs particularly heavily on a year like this. I wish you elected representatives of the people of Sweden the power, courage and wisdom of your important work. I hereby declare the 2020/ 21 Parliamentary Session open.
i-d227982d9f42a3dc-9	I'm ordering the Prime Minister to make his government statement.
i-d227982d9f42a3dc-10	Your Majestys! Mr President, I would like to Honourable Members of the Swedish Parliament! Sweden is a country to be proud of. We are the world leader in climate change. We have a fabulous nature, living peoples' movements and outstanding parental insurance. The generations before us have together built a country where everyone is expected to take responsibility for Sweden but where every person also has every opportunity to become their best self. We have safety nets and support for those who become unemployed or ill. We have free education and innovative companies. It is our Sweden, which we should be proud of. It is our country, which we shall do even better. Doing so is our common task. Mr President, I would like to The Corona crisis is testing our country. I would like to thank all the parties and members of Parliament for their good cooperation during a difficult time for Sweden. You have given every Swedish citizen reason to be proud of our democracy. The new Corona virus will shape our country for a long time, and society is also equipped for possible new outbreaks. The government has decided to participate in EU joint procurement of vaccines. Large-scale testing, physical distance and infectious detection continue. A Commission is now evaluating the overall response of society to the Corona crisis. The Commission's first report is due before the end of the year and the mission will be finalised in February 2022. We have talked a lot – unusually much – about responsibility and cohesion during the year. Every person has had to take a big responsibility for Sweden to cope with the Corona crisis, and every person will also be needed to build our country stronger. The Sweden affected by the new coronavirus was not perfect, with deficiencies in elderly care, ongoing climate change affecting our children's future and breaks in the welfare that will ensure people's safety. Therefore, we should not go back to what Sweden was like before the crisis, but should build something even better. We now have the opportunity to create jobs and at the same time address societal problems. We will do this through investments in health care, care for the elderly and climate change. The basis for the government's policy is the January agreement, a broad political work that provides stability, protects an open democratic society and also provides concrete solutions to Sweden's social problems. The cohesion that characterises our country during the crisis is also needed in the future. The task of strengthening Sweden is common. It also includes the social partners, civil society and the involvement of individuals. Together, we're handling the new corona virus. Together we will work Sweden out of the economic crisis. And together, we will build our country stronger than before. Mr President, I would like to The new Corona virus has hit people's lives and health hard. But the national economy has also been affected. Many entrepreneurs and employees have a very tough year. When the new coronavirus came, Sweden had the lowest national debt since 1977. The economic strength enabled measures such as short-term lay-off and conversion aid, which have saved jobs and businesses. Let's move on. We need to keep the spread of the disease down. But now the transition from crisis policy to long-term investment is also starting. This means for next year a historic budget with proposals of over SEK 100 billion. The whole of society must be involved in order for us to be able to work Sweden out of the crisis. Through investments in healthcare, elderly care and climate change, we strengthen Sweden, while at the same time people get jobs here and now. Entrepreneurs should be able to hire and young people to get their first employment and housing. A high level of employment is crucial for Sweden's prosperity. But work is also crucial for the individual, for anyone who gets up when the bell rings, takes a cup of strong coffee for breakfast and then goes to work. Work provides livelihood but also community and the opportunity to build your own life and contribute to your country. In order to better meet the needs, the reform of the Employment Service continues. People need to be equipped for the jobs that exist. Therefore, the expansion of the Knowledgelift continues throughout the country, focusing in particular on lack of vocational training. Research and innovation are needed to create jobs and strengthen Sweden's competitiveness. A research and innovation bill will be presented this autumn. Labour law will be modernised and adapted to the current labour market, while maintaining the balance between the parties. If the social partners reach agreement on the reform of the Employment Protection Act, the government will make proposals in accordance with it. During the Corona crisis, many of those who have been able to work from the home have been able to do so. Distance jobs, online coffee with colleagues and digital meetings have become routine. The digital infrastructure continues to expand throughout the country. It will be possible to live and work throughout the country. And the possibility of running businesses in rural areas should continue to be improved. Investment in housing and infrastructure is an effective way of stimulating the economy while creating jobs in Sweden. We have a historic opportunity to implement measures here and now that also strengthens Sweden. We'll take that opportunity. Together we will work Sweden out of the crisis and build society more sustainable. Mr President, I would like to Global warming is the destiny of our time. The consequences of a warmer climate – fires, droughts, rising sea levels – continue to affect people. The world's poorest are the least indebted to the climate crisis, but at the same time they are the worst hit. Sweden will be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. We will continue to be the world leader in tackling global warming and in implementing Agenda 2030. The fact that Sweden is the world leader in climate change and electrification benefits our companies, our exports, our workers, our welfare, our country. A green tax shift will be implemented, which means that taxes will be increased on environmentally damaging activities and reduced on labour and entrepreneurship.
i-d227982d9f42a3dc-33	The government is now also carrying out the largest railway investment in modern times. During next year, the Government intends to return with an infrastructure bill to the Riksdag with proposals for long-term development of our infrastructure. The cohesion and determination of society during the Corona crisis is also needed for a fair climate transition. Together we will change our society for the sake of the climate and for the sake of Sweden. During this special summer, more Swedes have discovered our amazing country again than before. Many have used our constitutionally protected right of living and walked in our beautiful mountain world or in our deep forests, heard the silence, felt the fresh air and noticed how delicious a chocolate cake can taste after a long trip. Sustainable tourism is important for Sweden. The government will therefore improve the conditions for the recovery of the tourism industry. And one who walks in nature learns not to leave any rubbish behind – a principle that should apply otherwise as well. We need to switch from today's unsustainable use of resources. The Government is now developing the first Swedish action plan for how a circular economy is to be realised. New rules for disposable plastics are introduced. The Swedish coasts should be places that we are proud of. Our seas are full of life. The government continues to work with reduced impact from eutrophication, to get sustainable fishing and that no plastic should end up in the sea. Swedish nature with great biodiversity, well-maintained forest and nature reserve is something that will also be able to be enjoyed by future generations. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's welfare is our common welfare. We have big hospitals and small village schools. We have preschools and home help, safety nets and springboards. We have a welfare system built on the idea that no human being should be left behind, but neither should he be held back. The government began to equip Swedish school, care for the elderly and health care even before the crisis. Since 2014, we have made major investments in welfare, which now has 100,000 more employees. We need to do more, and we will do more. During the Corona crisis, rifts in our society have become clear, rifts that can only be addressed through major efforts and hard political work. The elderly who have been involved in building Sweden have the right to a good old age and a good pension. Now I can tell you that the finances of pensioners continue to be strengthened. In the next year, a special pension supplement of up to SEK 600 per month will be introduced for those who have worked a full career but with low pay. It is money that will make a difference. The difference in taxation between pension and salary should be completely removed. At the same time, the government is taking the next step for long-term increased pensions through in-depth discussions within the Pensions Group. The government's view is that contributions to the pension system need to be increased. Anyone working in the care of the elderly has an important and responsible job, and it needs to be made clear. Catrin Jansson, assistant nurse in the home service, wrote in her novel The living like this: ♪ Worst are the evenings, so many people, so little time. It's hard being human. The needs are so great, the help is so small. The anxiety comes in the evening, the fatigue, the thoughts, the recurring alarms, there is no time for the sudden. But the impossible becomes possible. ..................................................... It should be attractive to work in the care of the elderly, and those who do so should receive clear recognition. In order to raise skills, the Government is implementing an older care lift. This means that people have the opportunity to train as a nurse or assistant on paid working hours. The elderly care lift is estimated to lead to more than 10,000 new permanent jobs in care for the elderly. Nurse becomes a protected professional title. When the phone rings, there are calls that everyone fears but many have received this year: that a relative has been hospitalized or that the health condition has unfortunately deteriorated. Then life will come to an end. Day-to-day problems that seemed to be large in the past suddenly become unimportant. Sweden should have an equal world-class healthcare system, and it should be there for everyone. The Corona crisis has put the greatest strain on health care in modern times. Personnel in care and care have shown great skill in very tough conditions. You have impressed an entire country, and you have the gratitude of an entire country. To ensure the availability of emergency medical care, many patients' visits or operations have been postponed. Health care should have the resources to handle the pent-up care needs and covid-19-related health care. The needs of the country are great. Strengthening the general contribution to municipalities and regions continues. Primary care should be reformed. The government wants to make it easier to get a time at health centres throughout the country, strengthen care for the elderly, for example, and expand the conditions for preventive measures. A fixed doctor's appointment is crucial. Healthcare crisis preparedness will be strengthened. Public as well as private actors' responsibility for the safe supply of medicinal products is being investigated, as is the introduction of special emergency pharmacies. The primary schools have been open in Sweden during the spring. That is a sentence that has never been stated before in a declaration of government. Under these new conditions, teachers and other school staff have done a wonderful job. There should be order in the school classroom – and order and order in the school's governance. A national plan for study and safety at school is drawn up. The School Inspectorate is given increased opportunities to close independent and municipal schools that have large and recurring shortcomings. Knowledge and education are guiding stars for new revised course and subject plans and therefore leading stars for Swedish school. Students' learning results have improved in several international knowledge measurements, while preliminary statistics from spring show that the proportion of ninth graders qualified for upper secondary school is increasing. The government's focus is that the knowledge should continue to increase. The school's resources should be allocated according to needs, and the school should be more equal. An investigation into state ownership is being set up. The queues in children's and young people's psychiatry should be reduced and student health protected. Skillful preschool teachers, teachers and principals are the basis for a successful school. A professional programme will be designed that aims to enable preschool teachers, teachers and principals to grow in their profession, develop teaching and contribute to research. Swedish welfare will be strengthened – this year and in the coming years. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's foreign policy aims to create security in our country and around the world. The major challenges of our time are best addressed through multilateral cooperation in the UN, in the EU and in our neighbourhood. We build common security together. The EU is our most important foreign and security policy arena. No other cooperation is so crucial for Swedish security and peace. The EU is also central to the Swedish economy and well-being and to our climate work. Crisis preparedness will be strengthened and the internal market will be developed to strengthen competitiveness in the global economy. Sweden will fully participate in and shape EU cooperation in a way that protects both Swedish and European interests. EU cooperation is based on our common values. Sweden will continue to push for all countries to respect principles such as independent courts and free media. Countries that do not respect the principles of the rule of law should not be able to receive EU funding in the same way as before. Sweden's security policy line is solid. The military freedom of alliance serves our country well and contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. Sweden will not remain passive if a disaster or attack affects another country in the Nordic countries or in the EU. We expect these countries to act in the same way if Sweden is affected. Sweden stands up for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. We condemn Russia's aggression against Ukraine and the illegal annexation of Crimea. We support the EU's sanctions against Russia. At the same time, we shall have contacts and seek dialogue with Russia and Russian society. We support the aspirations of the Belarussian people for democracy. The development in Belarus affects safety in the immediate vicinity of Sweden. The security policy situation in Sweden's neighbourhood and in Europe has deteriorated over time. The government believes that the overall defence capability therefore needs to continue to be strengthened and significantly increased. Substantial additions are added to military defence. Sweden's bilateral and multilateral defence and security cooperation should be continued and deepened. Civil defence is greatly strengthened after many years of dismantling. Work on setting up a psychological defence agency continues. A national cybersecurity centre is set up during the year. A bank tax will be introduced to finance defence efforts. Europe must take greater responsibility for its own security. The European security regime must continue to be protected, including the right of each country to choose its own security policy path. In 2021, Sweden will chair the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, OSSE. It is a responsible task in a troubled time. We welcome Parliament's agreement on the letter on Sweden's China policy. Sweden and the EU will pursue an active policy in relation to China based on our values and interests. We are in favour of the principle, one country, two systems, to preserve Hong Kong's self-governing position. The transatlantic relationship is central to Sweden's and Europe's security and prosperity. Nordic cooperation is unique. Our countries will learn lessons from the management of the Corona crisis and stand united in the future. Sweden will continue to be the leading force in the world for a feminist foreign policy. The Corona crisis has put the need for equality, health and health care worldwide in lightning. The focus of development cooperation on democracy continues. Sweden will be the driving force internationally for effective and responsible aid. Multilateral cooperation is the key word when the UN turns 75 this year. Sweden will continue to do its part for peace, freedom and cooperation. Mr President, I would like to On June 15, 61 new police assistants began their service in the Stockholm police area. In the police area n ordwest Skåne they were 22 new, and in the police area Västerbotten they were 11 new. Sweden now has almost 21 000 police officers, the highest number ever. We are also almost halfway to the target of 10,000 more police employees by 2024, and the reinforcement of the police continues. When gangs spread fear and violence, it is often hardworking people who live in vulnerable areas that are affected. Society's task is to repress organised crime. Our laws apply in every city, every block and every square. No criminals, gangs, gangs or families should think they're stronger than society. The penalties for gang-related crime will be tightened, and authorities will be given new tools to cooperate against gangs. Measures to break the culture of silence and strengthen the judicial process are being implemented. The penalties should be tightened up for, among other things, recruitment of young people to crime and crimes related to criminal settlements. The government proposes that the penalty for young adults should be abolished in the event of serious crime. The expansion of the State Departmental Board's facilities and the Prison Service's institutions and detention centres continues. It is quite possible to push back serious crime. All punitive measures, additional police officers and increased resources for law enforcement authorities are important. But in order to succeed, it is crucial that recruitment for crime is stopped. No teenager should see crime as their future. To do this requires an entire community to help each other. Lars Jörlén is interviewed in the book Osebol by the author Marit Kapla. Lars describes how he and his colleagues at the school went to pick up students whose parents had not got them away in the morning: It wasn't our duty, but people volunteered. We had the attitude – at least we tried to have it – that all children are everyone's children. Even if you have parents, it's society's children. ..................................................... Social Secretary, teacher, football coach, school staff and neighbors – everyone can do their part to support and steer up a teenager who is going wrong. Municipalities must be given a statutory responsibility for preventing crime. The government prioritises preventive work. The whole community needs to pull in the same direction. We're gonna push the criminal gangs back. We're gonna make sure that today's young people don't become tomorrow's criminals. We need a whole, strong society to do it. Mr President, I would like to Sweden will continue to protect gender equality, equality and democracy – here at home and in the world. Despite the fact that racism and Nazism should have been put on the rubbish heap of history for a long time, they are flourishing today. During the year, for example, Africans raised their voices against the racism they suffer. Racism in all its forms and expressions should be countered by the whole society. Malmö's international forum for remembering the Holocaust and combating anti-Semitism has been postponed as a result of the Corona crisis but will take place in autumn 2021. Swedish migration policy must be legally secure, effective and humane. The right of asylum must be protected. Sweden has taken a great responsibility to give a sanctuary to people who have left their country to seek protection. More countries in the EU must shoulder their responsibilities. The Migration Policy Committee will soon be submitting its report. Work will then continue on a long-term sustainable regulatory framework for future migration policy. The person who comes to Sweden but does not have the right to stay should return. But every person who flees to Sweden and has the right to stay will get all the help to become a part of society. Every person in Sweden should be involved in society and know their rights. The Government therefore intends to establish an independent, national human rights institute in 2021. This will be preceded by a broad parliamentary foundation. Sweden will continue to strengthen freedom of opinion formation, protect freedom of expression and support free media throughout the country. Community information for asylum seekers is extended and becomes a mandatory part of the asylum process. No child should have to worry about violence or being forced to marry. That is why we are now developing a national strategy to combat all forms of violence against children, including honour-related repression. In addition, a special offence of honour is introduced. Everyone in Sweden should have the same opportunity to become their best self. For this to become a reality, economic equality needs to be increased. Nor should the future of a child be determined by the parents'income — or lack of income. The Equality Commission has made important proposals to increase economic equality. Reforms for LGBT people's rights continue. A gender-neutral parental legislation is being investigated. Sweden should be a cultural nation to be reckoned with. Culture unites us, broadens perspectives and inspires new thoughts. During the Corona crisis, culture has been severely affected. It has affected the economy of all cultural creators, but also us as a country. Every day it loses colour when cinemas, concert halls and theatres are closed. If people are to be affected by a grand poem, enjoy a concert or get a new favorite song, there must be people who create all of this. The financial security of cultural creators must be protected. An artist's policy letter is presented. Culture aimed at children and young people should be strengthened. Sport creates community and health. Swedish sports movement will be able to cope with the current crisis and reach all children and young people who want to play sports. Sweden should continue to be a country where equality, equality and democracy are obvious in all parts of society. Mr President, I would like to As I said, the new corona virus is testing Sweden. But we, our country, will also pass this test. We are going through the crisis together, as a country where everyone takes responsibility. The forces that the crisis has clearly demonstrated will be carried with us when we build our country even stronger than before. It is responsibility, cohesion and how clearly it has become that we are interdependent. We have a new political situation. The government I lead will do whatever it takes to fix the rifts in our society. But to succeed, we must face the future as we have faced the crisis: as a country where we continue to take responsibility for each other, for Sweden, for our society, where we continue to face difficult times and good times together.
