i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-6	Madam President, I would like A government must be able to take the initiative and act during a crisis. It is the task of the Riksdag to decide under what circumstances the Government should be able to take action and how the consequences should be handled for those affected in a negative way by the measures. The matter we are now dealing with is a pandemic law. The issue originates from an initiative by the Center Party and, as usual, after good cooperation in the Social Committee, we have come together in agreement on a proposal – a report – for a temporary law that regulates how people get together in a pandemic, how the shutdown of activities can take place and how the activities involved should be compensated. The Christian Democrats and I would like to support the committee's proposal. Madam President, I would like We are living in a time of crisis; it has been going on since January almost a year ago. In the spring, around Easter, the government submitted a draft authorising act that would allow the government to take action during the pandemic in order to reduce the infection. After discussions and negotiations between the parties, all parties agreed on a law which the Riksdag then decided. It was valid until 30 June. However, the Law of Authorisation, as it was called, was never used by the government. Instead, individual proposals were chosen. The Parliament dealt with these quickly so that they could enter into force and enable measures to reduce the spread of infection. At that time, the government stated that it was the easiest thing to do. Well, the primary thing is that the government acts during a crisis. But then time passed, and I got the impression that the government thought that the pandemic was probably about to level out and lose strength. Indeed, during the autumn, the government decided to ease the restrictions. But the remarkable thing was that the reliefs occurred almost at the same time as the care told about more infected people and more people who needed care. Soon after the government eased the restrictions, they were tightened again. It was necessary. But the given question is: What basis did the government have for its decision to ease the restrictions? Madam President, I would like We cannot control the virus that we call corona and which causes the disease covid-19. It is new, and research and care learn daily new things about how the virus acts, how the disease develops and how it can be treated in the best way. We must be humbled by the fact that it is therefore difficult to take the right action at the right time. But this only increases the need for transparent decision-making. The different scenarios and related measures under consideration should be available to all to participate in. This would increase confidence and compliance with the measures taken. The Christian Democrats have expressed the importance of this directly to the government during the talks that the Prime Minister has had with the party leaders during the pandemic. I am pleased that the government has now finally taken decisions in accordance with our approach and that such missions have been given to the authorities. But we also need a pandemic law that provides the framework for action. The Christian Democrats therefore welcome the initiative of the Center Party and the fact that the proposal now on the table contains important elements. The tool used so far by the government to limit the spread of infection is laws that are used based on the need for order and security from a police perspective. It's a way too blunt a tool during a pandemic. Instead, during the pandemic, a law based on the risk of infection is needed. There is a need for a law that allows for measures where congestion can occur and allows, if there are reasons and are proportionate, for measures to be taken that can effectively reduce congestion and the risk of infection. However, there also needs to be principles on when financial compensation is to be paid to the traders and others affected by the measures. The law should not contain amounts or levels, but precisely principles – guidelines – which indicate when financial compensation is needed. How the financial compensation is then designed and specified is part of the usual budget work that is ongoing during the pandemic – the Riksdag has so far handled 12 such additional amending budgets. Madam President, I would like It is remarkable that the government did not act earlier to develop a pandemic law. At the same time, it is of course welcome that, following the initiative of the Social Affairs Committee, the government has produced a draft law. The draft is now being consulted until 23 December. The Government shall then assess the views of the consultation bodies. I assume that the government will also take into account all aspects of the announcement by the Parliament that is on the table of the House today. The government has stated that it wants dialogue with the parties of the Riksdag on the Pandemic Act and its design. That is a good thing, and it can hopefully be done more orderly and structured than during the handling of the authorisation law this spring. The Christian Democrats are more than happy to help us get a good pandemic law that has the support of the Riksdag.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-20	Madam President, I would like The need for better regulation on what measures can be taken in the event of a pandemic is very clear to all of us. We note that the legislation used to date has not worked well. It is therefore welcome that the Committee on Social Affairs agrees that such legislation should be put in place as soon as possible. The main aim of such legislation is, of course, to prevent the spread of infection without imposing unnecessary restrictions on things that can actually be implemented in a safe manner. Activities should, of course, be able to continue as far as possible, but where this is not possible, activities should be limited. The law simply needs to be accurate. It needs to regulate general gatherings such as demonstrations, services and theatres, public events such as nightclubs and flea markets, and trading venues and public transport. In view of the situation last summer, municipalities also need to be given the opportunity to decide on a ban to stay in special places, such as a beach. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Center Party has presented this initiative to the Committee on Social Affairs. When we discussed it in committee, the government presented a proposal which was, for the most part, equally obedient to what the Center Party has just presented. We knew that a proposal was coming; we knew it. What had been communicated, however, was that it could possibly come into force by the summer. Now we know that the Government's ambition is for legislation to be in place by 15 March. Of course, it may seem that it takes far too long and that this should be done more efficiently and faster, but these are not simple issues to be dealt with. The measures should be consistent with our constitution, proportionate and so on. The government must be able to act quickly if necessary without limiting the influence of the Riksdag in the event of more intervention measures such as bans or closures. Finally, Madam President, we also note in the initiative that the issue of compensation, i.e. compensation to be given to the activities concerned, is urgent. I would like to stress here in the debate that this is exactly what the government has been working hard on to date, to compensate for the pandemic in its supplementary amending budgets. In this context, I also think it is reasonable to mention that it is not, of course, just traders who need compensation in a crisis situation, as a pandemic actually is. Employees, civil society and associations may also need to be compensated. That we agree that all decisions relating to the economic process should be taken in our regular forms of preparation, i.e. in the ordinary budget process, I feel confident. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-28	Madam President, I would like Had anyone said a year ago what the world would be like on 17 December 2020, I think few would have believed it. Covid-19 and its rapid, merciless and unpredictable advance have meant that everything has been put on hold. In Sweden, we have partly chosen a different path from many other countries, and the future will tell if it was right or wrong. The Corona Commission's interim report on Tuesday is clear that we have failed to protect our elderly, and we must learn a great deal from that. The burden on care and care is part of the pandemic. Another is the effect that a closed society has on people's physical and mental health, on people's livelihoods, on being able to pay food and rent, on values such as sports, music, history and culture – values that are perhaps impossible to restore. Yes, for many businesses, 2020 and the shutdowns that have taken place have been the same as a trade ban. Although Sweden has not shut down as much as many other countries, the economic impact on many businesses and people has been merciless. Many have seen their life's work go to waste. We Moderates are proud to note that we have been a constructive party throughout the pandemic and pushed the government ahead of us in terms of important support for businesses and businesses, large companies and so important small businesses. Madam President, I would like Since spring, Secretary of State Maja Fjaestad contacted a number of us spokespersons for various parties in the Social Affairs Committee because they needed sharper tools to deal with the spread of infection. Sweden lacked the laws that so many other countries had and that could be used to limit or shut down activities where it felt that the spread of the disease had to be limited. A temporary law was therefore needed which would apply only a few months in the emergency situation. Since then, it has become clear that Sweden must have a law that applies to civil crises. The legislation we have in the event of war is not enough. However, this law requires a large and extensive effort and will take considerably longer to get in place. There's a lot to say about that process during a weekend this spring. But we can limit it to the fact that, firstly, we all worked together to deal with it as quickly as we could, and we were fast. Never has a law been handled so quickly by parliament and referral bodies in Sweden. Secondly, the result was the establishment of a subservient mechanism whereby the government would submit the matter to the parliamentary review as quickly as possible by means of a bill. In this way, the government was given the momentum it wanted, while ensuring that democracy was maintained. When the proposal was presented at a press conference, Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren praised both the bill and the cooperation that made the bill better. Now they had got what they needed to fight the spread of the disease. This Act entered into force on 18 April this year and expired with the end of June. Madam President, I would like This temporary law was not used once. Therefore, my first question to the representatives of the government in this debate, the vice-chairman of the committee, is why this law was never used. If the Minister was so pleased with the law, as stated at the press conference, why was it not used? I think, Madam President, that one can have quite a lot of understanding overall that everything did not go right and that everything did not come into place this spring. It's my opinion that everyone worked for everything the fabric held. And that it was a new situation we have a great understanding of. Nevertheless, the government governs the kingdom and therefore has responsibility. But the fact that you came back after the summer without any suggestions on how to face a possible second wave and increased spread of infection seems incomprehensible and also irresponsible. My second question is precisely this: why had the government not used the summer to prepare the autumn? Had they bought the Swedish Public Health Agency's strategy and its plan or vision that there would not be a second wave? Why was the government not better prepared? When the spread of infection escalated rapidly last autumn, the Center Party put a committee initiative on the table of the Social Committee – a welcome initiative which we Moderates naturally supported. At the same time, the government explained that it had actually started work on a pandemic law. The committee initiative was launched on 15 October. As is customary, and because of the fact that the government claimed to be working on such a law, the committee called the government to the committee in order to be able to start preparing the matter. It took a month and a half before the Secretary of State came to the committee – a month and a half! My third question relates precisely to this: why did the government not come to committee when the committee repeatedly called them? It would be nice if the government's principal representative in the committee could explain that. Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that the government is now still working on a law that can mean that one can more effectively face the spread of infection. But you can't say timing is this government thing. This was also noted by the Corona Commission in its report on Tuesday, and the Pandemic Act is the next sad example of this. Apparently, in the spring, the law came into place at the wrong time, since it was never used. And now the government announces that the planned entry into force date is 15 March. It is still better than what we heard from the beginning, that it would be in place by summer. Given how serious the situation is right now, we sincerely hope that it will look better in Sweden on 15 March. I think it's obvious to everyone that if the law is really needed, it is right now. Madam President, I would like However, it is very gratifying that the committee agrees with this proposal. This means that the Government will receive important contributions from the Riksdag before the upcoming final preparation of the Pandemic Act. In practice, many sectors that could have carried out their activities in a way that counteracts the spread of infection have been banned from doing business. Activities such as Astrid Lindgren's World have been forced to close. Similar activities in our neighbouring countries have been kept open. Skansen, Gröna Lund, Liseberg and Skara Sommarland are some of these businesses that have invested and shown how to run the business in a safe way. In addition to the fact that the inconsistent restrictions and laws have affected individuals, organisations and companies, there is also a clear risk of undermining public confidence in the protection of infection. This new temporary law will be based on the ability of activities to avoid the spread of infection. It shall provide for the predictability of affected activities and be logical and reasonable for the population. That's the only way to build trust. Madam President, I would like Finally, the law must also ensure that it provides financial compensation to those affected by the impact of this legislation. This is extremely important, but we know that the government in this spring's temporary law finally refused to enter the financial compensation. Therefore, my last question to Kristina Nilsson is: Does the government promise that the victims will be guaranteed financial compensation from the state? The Social Democrats have supported this demand in today's report, but can it be trusted? We Moderates are pleased with a united committee and look forward to continuing to be a constructive force in the fight against the pandemic. I support the committee's proposal.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-49	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats also support the committee's proposal for a decision and welcome the proposal. The government has made the assessment that a temporary pandemic law is needed as there is currently no accurate legislation to limit congestion. It is clear that Sweden's absence of exemption laws that allow for effective management of a social crisis and the introduction of restrictions in society distinguish us from many other countries. The government's sense of rest and defensive conduct during this serious social crisis have probably cost lives. It is a disgrace to Sweden and a tragedy to all who have been affected. Last summer, the Swedish Democrats asked for an inventory of the powers to be delegated during a crisis. The aim was to quickly put in place appropriate restrictions if needs were to arise during the second wave that could affect Sweden. We are now in the middle of this second wave, which looks worse than the first. The government suddenly shifted its strategy from the famous flock immunity strategy to harsher restrictions. It is clear that the new strategy was not designed from a disease-protection perspective. Instead, it was about what powers existed for the government to use in existing legislation, then specifically in the Order Act and the Alcohol Act. This made it visible, among other things, that the provisions of the Law on General Meetings and Public Events were too tight and contributed to restrictions reaching only certain areas, while others, such as congestion in public transport, remained unregulated. The consequences of how the government has so far chosen to design the restrictions have hit individual industries hard. Although the evidence is weak that restaurants are more contagious than, for example, gyms, the government's restrictions on these have been tougher and have resulted in a disaster for the restaurant industry. Madam President, I would like It is positive that the government is acting to reduce the spread of infection, and I am not referring to the text message that went out to the citizens. A pandemic law with intervention restrictions and restrictions on civil liberties must always be designed on the basis of the principles of legality and proportionality with the greatest regard to the purpose, in this case the interest in disease protection. Madam President, I would like Sweden has now lived more than ten months with the pandemic, and death rates are approaching 10 000. The Swedish Democrats therefore welcome the fact that, on the initiative of the committee, the government is now proposing a law instead of leaning on non-binding recommendations and advice.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-58	Madam President, I would like Today is the time to proclaim the well - known! For a long time we in the Center Party have been pointing out the importance of Sweden needing a new and fair pandemic law, and I am pleased to note that we have a broad consensus for that very thing. Over 7 000 people in Sweden have so far lost their lives during the pandemic. The increased spread of infection is a sign that we will be living with the virus for a long time and that we will have to take more measures. But the limitations we make must be fair and predictable. The government should have taken a holistic approach in the past that put disease protection in focus and did not create a patchwork of exceptions. But it was too late. The Center Party wanted to see a new pandemic law early on. The use of the Order Act and the Disease Control Act creates great injustices and many times total illogical management and assessment of activities. Let me take a few examples. The zoo Skansen has been able to continue its activities without any limitation in the number of participants while the amusement park Gröna Lund has been forced to keep closed. A restaurant with a table service can have hundreds of guests, but if an artist simultaneously plays music, the dinner is classified as a concert and may not be performed. Neither Lidingöloppet nor Vasaloppet can be carried out even though the possibility of keeping a distance between participants under 30 kilometres and 90 kilometres should be good out there in the forests. In practice, many industries and activities have almost been grounded, and the restrictions imposed have resulted in considerable economic losses. That is why the Center Party has always been clear that a pandemic law must also include wordings on the financial compensation and compensation. It is important that the activities affected are guaranteed financial compensation. Now the government must take a holistic approach that puts disease protection in focus, which guarantees financial compensation and which does not continue to create a patchwork of exceptions. As I said, I am very pleased that there is now broad agreement on the committee initiative submitted by the Center Party on 15 October. I support the committee's proposal.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, and all of you out there longing for normality and to get rid of fear! The whole society longs for a covid-19-free world, and we will get it after the vaccinations. In Europe, in the United States and elsewhere, such a fierce second wave had not been anticipated. There was no evidence on it. That's why we don't know exactly how to behave. We know so little about this virus, which has been around for ten months. However, it is quite obvious that the virus adapts to the weather. Our legislation does not work very well in this type of crisis. We have now learned something from this and realised that we need to have a national crisis management where you can point with your whole hand and get everyone with you. We do not have that legislation today, but we will get it together. I hope that we can continue our constructive work in the Committee on Social Affairs in promoting substantive policy and not engaging in rumour and vulgarism, as some parties tend to do. I welcome the unity, because a pandemic law is needed. I note that one is on its way. Of course, it would have been good if we had had the law in October, because then we would have had a better working system now. This law is really needed. Many have wondered why Astrid Lindgren's World closed while Skansen was open, or why Eriksdalsbadet in Stockholm with its gigantic surfaces is closed while the private gym opposite with very limiting surfaces is open. Now the government has a law in the pipeline, and the committee initiative – thanks to the Center Party – has recorded. That's great. There is a real need to be able to regulate how people can meet and be out in town. I see that we need to be able to open up and shut down just as effectively and equally quickly, and we can do that with a pandemic law. It should be clearly seen in the regulations, Madam President, how congestion in the public space can be dealt with. It's the infection we're going to get rid of. That's what we're working on. The infection and public health will be taken into account. There must be legitimacy and understanding among the public as to why they are shutting down and why they are opening up. There is a need for legislation which covers parts of the public sphere in an equivalent way and which can contribute to rapid action against the spread of infection, and a risk assessment must be used. That's how we work in Sweden. It must be very transparent simply. The authorities behind our strategy must take into account public health as a whole. That's how we work in Sweden. Madam President, I would like It is important that constitutionally protected rights such as freedom of demonstration, freedom of assembly and so on are not curtailed. Any proposed restriction must be proportionate and time-limited in relation to its purpose. And the application of the law – I say it again – must be transparent and clear. In my view, financial compensation is an urgent matter. In addition to companies, civil society, cultural society, NGOs and employees are also at risk of being severely affected. I am pleased that we can adopt this proposal today. I am also pleased that the government is now going to work out a law.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-79	Madam President, I would like Liberals welcome the fact that we are now deciding on a pandemic law, albeit with limited validity in time. It is very good that we have reached agreement. It is important in wars and crises to join forces even if you disagree on a number of issues, because we should fight a common enemy, in this case a virus. We're doing right and wrong here in the course of the journey, but everyone works like only the one to win the war. Then it is a good thing that we in Sweden have the Corona Commission, an independent body that can follow what we are doing right and that now, when the care of the elderly has been evaluated, can point to what we need to think about from now on in order for the older generation not to get hurt. The value is that it is an independent Commission. There won't be a muzzling between the parties. The law is necessary. It clearly shows how we work in Sweden in drain pipes. We make well-intentioned laws from our drainpipes, but gutters don't exist. Now we see clearly what has been described, among others, by Sofia Nilsson, when it comes to closures that become disproportionate. You can compare Skansen and Gröna Lund, for example; it is about the same air cube that it is about. We need tools so that we can have proportionate decisions to limit the infection. It concerns shopping centres, public transport and other things. At the same time, we in the Liberals would like to emphasise that the restrictions imposed in such a war should protect the inhabitants while at the same time limiting them to no more than necessary. It will be interesting here in a few years' time when the World Health Organisation and others will evaluate the value of the limitations of different countries. Of course we want permanent legislation, but we do not have that time. If we are to do good and comprehensive legislation on a democratic basis, it takes time. It is likely that constitutional changes will also be required, and then it will be an intermediate choice. It is unthinkable that the legislation that we urgently need should take so long. We are therefore in favour of a temporary law. We know that the Government Office has a fairly detailed basis for this which is now being referred to. I'm concerned about that. A referral procedure is important, because then there can be answers from the various drain pipes about how the law affects them. Human freedom must be safeguarded. We're almost prisoners under the virus, but we're gonna make sure we don't end up in the virus's prison. As I said just now, the law must not close society more than absolutely necessary. In this context, it is important, as many of the debaters have mentioned, that businesses, industry and the public sector – all of us in society, who in various ways have to forego things – move forward and receive reasonable compensation. This applies whether it is industry, the public sector, associations or private individuals. The staff who are currently working in health care should also be clear that they receive compensation for all the hours they offer during Christmas, New Year, weekends, weekdays, nights and so on, because we are all extremely grateful that they are in the situation we are in. If they didn't exist, our mortality rates would fly even higher up in the sky than they are today. I therefore, on behalf of the Liberals, support the committee's proposal. This legislation is very welcome, and I think it lights candles in the tunnel along with the fact that we are now seeing vaccines coming.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-88	Madam President, I would like We live in a cross-border world where a disease that occurs in one part of the world can quickly get by plane to another continent. We've seen how fast it can go, how covid-19 spread like wildfire all over our world. Madam President, I would like This will not be the last time we see a pandemic spreading in our world, because we are seeing the runaway climate change, poor animal husbandry in large parts of the world and the great danger of antibiotic resistance. Each country needs to have good preparedness and legislation that works in all possible crises, in wars but also in civilian crises as a pandemic. Sweden lacked that readiness, and all parties here bear a responsibility for the fact that it was not there when covid-19 hit hard also against our country soon a year ago. Therefore, it is important that the total defence bill has been passed and that the entire healthcare system and how it should work, also in the event of crises as a pandemic. It can beat in different ways. This time we see that congestion is the problem, but other kinds of diseases may also arise that need other answers to how to deal with them. Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that we have such good cooperation in our committee and that all parties see the value of quickly coming forward with a pandemic law. One can see it this way: Being referred to the law of order and alcohol law is a bit like trying to get the square block into the round hole in the children's box. It just can't be done. You have to have very fine-tuned instruments, and that is what we are going to achieve by adopting this pandemic law. This is about fundamental rights and freedoms for our people. What is important is that this Pandemic Act, which we will be dealing with at the beginning of next year after the government has put it on Parliament's table, should apply precisely covid-19. Then there must be much more thorough work to develop a long-term pandemic law. Madam President, I would like The important thing here is that we should be able to have an instrument that allows you to fine-tune how different activities are to be performed. As we have had it now, for example, the world of culture and sport has been unduly affected by the restrictions that have been placed there, while other activities have been able to be open without us being able to make any restrictions. We've been very much directed to people following advice, and that's a good thing, but sometimes you need stronger tools. Madam President, I would like It will be good when we get this legislation in place. Some activities that have not been able to be carried out so far will be able to be carried out without risking greater spread of infection, and some may have to be shut down at worst in certain situations. I agree with all the other parties in the Riksdag that it is important that there be a structure for providing compensation to civil society organisations and various actors as well as to the business community, but this must be done within the framework of the ordinary budgetary process – as has happened during this pandemic, up to now. With those words, I support the committee's proposal.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-95	Madam President, I would like Decisions on the budget, i.e. the budgetary framework, were taken a few weeks ago. The Parliament then decides on the budget in each committee area, and now it is time for the budget of the last committee – the Social Committee – to be debated and later today to be decided. The Christian Democrats have submitted a draft budget for all parts of the state budget. Our proposal did not win approval when it was tested in this House a few weeks ago, and that is why today we will abstain from voting on the budget in the field of the Social Affairs Committee. We have given a specific opinion stating that we are in favour of our draft budgets. The Christian Democrats' draft budget for the Social Affairs Committee shows that we are proposing more than 8 billion more than the government to the area. We are proposing the most money in the Social Affairs Committee's area of all parties. The area covers health care, care for the elderly, social services and LSS and interventions for people with disabilities. I would like to spend my time today on care for the elderly. The Corona Commission left on Tuesday's stinging criticism. It concerns, on the one hand, structural deficiencies, where we all share responsibility. These are deficiencies that have existed for a long time and that have not been addressed in a sustainable way. The Commission's interim report also contains criticism of the government's actions in the spring; it states that the strategy to protect the elderly failed. For the shortcomings that were not corrected this spring, the government is responsible, because it governs the kingdom. Madam President, I would like There is broad political agreement that there must be change. Municipalities and regions must be better placed to provide good care for the elderly and associated health care. The Corona Commission is right that care and care for the elderly initially had to stand up for the needs of inpatient care. Protective equipment for elderly care workers came only weeks later, after the inpatients had received it. Nurses alerted for a long time, unheard, before real improvements took place. Medical visits to elderly care were made all too often via the telephone rather than as a physical visit, although the National Board of Health and Welfare's guidelines state that physical visits are the basis for the right medical assessment to be able to do so. Madam President, I would like Sweden has a well-developed, jointly funded and well-functioning elderly care compared to many other countries. When the so-called noble reform was carried out in the early 1990s, we went from nursing homes with many patients in the same room to new retirement homes where each person had their own room and their own contract. There, the emphasis was placed on social care and health. That shift was necessary and right, but there is reason to consider developments since then. Today, more and more people live a long life despite many diseases. More are what are sometimes called multisickness, but they often manage with home support. Others need 24 hours of care, and special accommodation is a good alternative. The elderly care today should not return to the long-term care departments of the time, but the Christian Democrats believe that more of health care efforts are needed in the municipalities. Developed primary care is also needed in order for the whole to become a good and close care for older people as well. The shortcomings that have been made visible during the pandemic strengthen the Christian Democrats in their view that this is necessary. Conversely, the places where collaboration has developed have also been better able to cope during the pandemic. Madam President, I would like Home care and home care are constantly developing, as are various forms of mobile care. Being cared for at home is a great advantage for many people during different parts of their lives when you suffer from illness and other troubles. For older people, home care is a common effort, and it can be designed in many different ways. Home care means that the staff need to work with a high degree of flexibility. This places special requirements, which requires a great deal of commitment from the principal so that the operation can be given with the best conditions for, for example, protective equipment and medical devices. Furthermore, continuity of staff is crucial for providing good quality care and care. The way in which care for the elderly is designed in practice means that the Christian Democrats must be determined locally, and it must be person-centred. What does the person seeking help need? How can we best shape interventions that provide the individual with the best care and care? Although municipalities need to pool their efforts in various activities – for example, home care, shelter and especially housing – the efforts must therefore work seamlessly from the perspective of the elderly. Creeping boundaries can clarify responsibilities but also create gaps where the individual is placed completely without support and help. Cooperation and cooperation need to continue to develop. After all, the pandemic has contributed to the development of cooperation in many parts of the country, and it must continue. In order for all older people to enjoy dignified care for the elderly wherever they live, laws must also be changed and financial conditions guaranteed. For this reason, the Christian Democrats in their budget option propose the following measures, which I believe have a major impact on how we get good care for the elderly even during a pandemic. Firstly, we propose strengthening municipal health care through, among other things, 2 000 more nurses. There should be a medical supervisor for rehabilitation in each municipality, and we need to strengthen and develop the medical services. Secondly, we need staff improvement measures. Shared tours must be reduced, and unwanted part-times must disappear. Fixed employment should be normal, and we need more managers so that the mission as a leader becomes possible. In addition, we propose, among other things, improved dementia care, measures to combat loneliness, support for carers, better continuity in home care and a general vaccination programme for the elderly, all to strengthen the security and quality of life of the individual elderly. The structural measures that are needed urgently need to be agreed and maintained for many years to come. The urgent measures referred to by the Corona Commission must be addressed as soon as possible, and the government is ultimately responsible for doing so throughout the country. As this is the last debate of the year, I would also like to take the opportunity to thank all the members of the Committee on Social Affairs for an intense but also very grateful year. All members have been very active, despite all the difficulties that have been encountered in participating by phone or via Skype. The engagement has been there all along, and we have had many meetings. Many thanks for the work that everyone has done! It has been a joy every time to meet the Social Affairs Committee and jointly shape the measures that we believe are needed in the whole area of the Social Affairs Committee. I wish all Members a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-113	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, in this second wave, elderly people are still infected in retirement homes. There is still a lack of, for example, protective equipment, something one might think that the regions would have large stocks of by now. I hope that the elderly who are ill today can get a doctor's assessment on the spot and not on the phone, as has been the case to a very large extent in Stockholm, for example. The staff is the key to care for the elderly, and we are in complete agreement on that. That is why the Left Party has today presented a committee initiative in the Committee on Finance to strengthen the municipalities pronto in order to be able to employ staff on permanent posts, because this is a huge problem across Sweden and especially in some municipalities. My question to the Christian Democrats, Madam President, will then, of course, be how the Christian Democrats view such proposals.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-116	Madam President, I would like We got this this morning. We take a very positive view of the initiative. We had similar discussions earlier this spring. We made proposals to the government from my party. Then came the Elderlift, and that's good. That's excellent. However, I believe that more is needed, because we need to ensure that most of the employees have a permanent job. Among other things, it is about not having to go between different accommodations because it involves a risk for those you meet, but it is also about the individual's working conditions – being able to participate in a team, being part of the team, being able to develop the job. You can't do that if you're an hourly employee and you go in and out. Then I know that there are individuals who may want it that way, but they are nowhere near the large share that we have today. We therefore welcome the proposal for an initiative. We will read it during the Christmas weekend and will come back in January with news in the Finance Committee, where I think it is being dealt with right now.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-118	Madam President, I would like I'm very happy for the positive news. You Christian Democrats have in your draft budget a proposal on health services. Then my question to the Christian Democrats, Madam President, is how this health service can ensure that more people are employed in health care. For example, we have extremely few care places, and it is about having too few employees, specifically nurses. How do you expect this health care agency to strengthen staffing? That's the key.
i-UPpXWDkaEC5qQQ4VT1RXvY	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Karin Rågsjö! National health care services do not focus on the part that is about strengthening health care in itself. We have other proposals to do that. As the honourable Member says, it is mainly nurses who are the major flaws today. That's why you can't open any more departments. It's not the lack of beds or rooms, it's the lack of nurses. The national health care agency is about the fact that despite the difficult situation we have today – not right now but earlier in the autumn – we had some spare capacity here and there in the country. Since patients do not know where there is spare capacity – they may have already been waiting for their hip replacement surgery for a long time and have been given a decision on it, but in their own region it is full – we think there should be a simple and accessible way to find out that here is a vacant position for me, somewhere else, and so I might choose to take it or to stay in the queue at home. As there is no information on the location of vacancies, it is impossible for patients to make that choice. We want a national health service aimed at patients.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-123	Madam President, I would like Having a budget debate this December 2020, which is largely about health care, really feels special. The fact that the Social Committee is also the committee that closes all the budget debates is perhaps a suitable framework for a year in which very much has come to revolve around two committees: the Social Committee and our responsibility for health and the Finance Committee with all the support that has been worked out quickly. Madam President, I would like At this point, the resources of health care are under strain. Words such as that the health workers are fantastic heroes risk falling flat and feeling clichéd, but I really want to emphasise that I see it that way. I am sure I am not alone in wishing that I could do something more robust right now in the emergency situation to help them. However, I realise that the best thing I can do is to stay healthy and comply with all the restrictions on how best to ensure that you do not suffer or contribute to the spread of infection. That is very serious. For one's own, for our oldest – our most fragile – and for the sake of health professionals, there is nothing else to do right now but do everything to avoid and spread infection. Madam President, I would like The government runs the country. Yes, the words of the Corona Commission are clear. Their judgment about how Sweden has betrayed our elderly and the government's ultimate responsibility for this is harsh. Sweden did not manage to keep the spread of infection in the initial phase of the covid-19 pandemic, and this led to more elderly people being infected and died from the pandemic. The overall strategy to protect the elderly failed. The Swedish elderly care was unprepared, and the employees were left alone to deal with the crisis. Getting a testing strategy in place and getting the extended sampling started took too long. The restraining order on care for the elderly should have been decided earlier. The government's actions were late and, in several respects, inadequate. Comparisons with our neighbours show that they acted considerably faster. Madam President, I would like By 2021, legislation must now be developed to ensure that care workers in care for the elderly are protected in the event of a pandemic and in other exceptional situations. The government must take on the responsibilities that the Corona Commission believes it has been seriously violated. While our health care provider struggles to maintain the emergency care of covid-19, but also other intensive care that is currently also very hard strained, other care is postponed. It can be bad hip joints and knee joints, but it can also be other. The so-called care debt is growing. This, of course, also happens in other countries, but with an important difference: They do not have a terrible starting point in Sweden. It is the loss of control over the queue situation in recent years that makes the consequences even worse. Sweden has had a different name for care debt before, and it is care queues. It's basically the same thing. The health queues have grown under the red-green government so badly that we are the worst in Europe. For Swedes it has become something obvious that you are in a care queue. We Moderates want to change that. We want it to be like in many other countries where people seek care and get it without having to wait and not like here where you by definition prepare for waiting because you live in Sweden. Madam President, I would like There'll be some time after the corona. Then the focus must be on structured work to catch up with the queues that may be called care debt or care queues but which basically mean the same thing: People do not receive care on time, and their symptoms or illness risks getting worse with both greater individual suffering and greater care efforts. For this, the government must also assume a national responsibility. If you want to image the health debt or the extent of the care queues, you can say that if all people who have had their surgery cancelled would stand in one line it would go further than from Stockholm to Sundsvall. It gives a pretty strong picture of how many people it is about. The government must assume its responsibilities. Four out of ten patients are waiting for their surgery and are not allowed to complete it. So far this year, more than 185 000 operations have been cancelled. We Moderates propose to develop a national common goal for when the health debt in the form of the growing care queues will be gone. There is a need for a national collection around the goal of removing the health debt. The patient should receive treatment within the statutory time limit. We must then use all the good forces available, and we therefore also want all private healthcare companies that have the opportunity and meet the required requirements to participate in the work to graze the health debt. Madam President, I would like We Moderates have had a special focus on Swedish cancer care for a long time. We note that it continues to be characterised by socio-economic and regional differences. We want to do something about that. This has to change. It cannot be that six out of ten women with breast cancer do not get their surgery within the promised maximum waiting time and that five out of six men with prostate cancer do not receive their radiation treatment within the maximum waiting time. I could draw a lot of statistics on how our cancer queues look, but I am content to say that they are long, far too long, and that there is a big difference between our regions. I would also like to mention quickly that the focus in 2021 must also be on ensuring that everyone has equal access to the new, powerful pharmaceutical treatments. Madam President, I would like We're putting a crisis buffer in the budget. It can be used to strengthen health care and to support the economy in order to repress unemployment when the spread of infection is again taking off and is very worrying. In the budgetary area we are discussing, we have spent more money than the government in a number of areas, and I would like to mention a few briefly. We spend more than 1 billion more than the government on health care. We invest SEK 80 million more than the government in child cancer care and about 600 million more than the government in cancer care. In addition, we are putting great resources into another area that our committee has devoted a great deal of time to this year, and that is social services and vulnerable children. I would like to conclude by mentioning a few words about this. There has been strong, joint work on all eight parties this year. As a result, we have been able to decide jointly on the first laws that change the situation of vulnerable children. I look forward to working even more intensively on these issues in the coming year. I would like to extend warm thanks to all my colleagues in the committee for their very good cooperation, not least because we have a fantastic President to whom I would like to extend my special thanks and wish you a Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas also to all our colleagues and to the President!
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-144	Madam President, I would like The government always has the overall national political responsibility also for issues relating to the availability of protective equipment in health care and care for the elderly. That's what the Moderates' budget says. Regions would have had pandemic stocks. It's also written down. But there were no pandemic stocks in Stockholm, Skåne and Västra Götaland, and there are regions where you control. Is it not the obligation of the regions to have pandemic stocks and not just four days of stocks? I wonder, because here it was a disaster. For example, the staff in this large and very affected region, the Stockholm region, had to do their own small protection of overhead paper during the first few weeks. It was a disaster. How do the Moderates view this with the distribution of responsibility for the absence of these stocks?
i-UnwEkQXRAxhRF6mNFQ4giK	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Karin Rågsjö! I think we can be very much in agreement that there are many things that have not worked during this pandemic. There was much that was unprepared for, and especially initially a region was hit very hard by the spread of infection, and it was the Stockholm region. I have to say that I am personally impressed in many ways by how the staff and the region took on this. They showed the whole country how to work really hard and decisively to face this. But not everything was done right. I know that there is always an intention on the part of Karin Rågsjö to point out precisely the moderate-led regions and not least Stockholm. In fact, I do not think it is particularly fruitful to do so now in this situation. We will all have the opportunity to read and study each syllable in the Corona Commission's opinion during the forthcoming holidays. It was very clear, I think, on Tuesday when it came that it was believed that the government is ruling and leading the kingdom and that there was a lot left behind. The focus was on the regions at the beginning, and they let the municipalities fall away and not get the support and help they needed. In this it is important that all good forces are helped together. Therefore, I would like to ask Karin Rågsjö how she sees that we can involve more caregivers in this. Does Karin Rågsjö, like us Moderates, see that the private health care providers are important to complement in order for us to manage this and save people from dying, which is ultimately what it is all about?
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-153	Madam President, I would like I thought it was I who would ask the questions here, but I can answer anyway. The Stockholm region, which has an extremely slimmed-down public health service for a long time, has asked private carers for help. How many have rushed to? Not many, I must say. We need a law that private carers are subject to. I think so. Madam President, I would like The sampling in Stockholm in March would be directed at people in hospitals and elderly people in special housing. There were very clear directives from the Public Health Agency on how this should be done. But here in Stockholm it was not obvious that living with symptoms would be tested, but here the decision on who should be tested would be made by the responsible doctor. The guidelines therefore completely deviated from the recommendations of the Public Health Agency. Should the regions of Sweden not comply with the recommendations of the authorities? Should the authorities have to pay for the clear mistakes of the regions?
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-157	Madam President, I would like It is sad that Karin Rågsjö raises her tone in this way. I think we are all very concerned about the mistakes that have been made and that everyone is anxious that this should not happen again. It was also one of the reasons why the Moderates were anxious to have a neutral Corona Commission in place as soon as possible, so that we can learn from the mistakes that have taken place. I hope we have done the same. One problem is that we are now approaching a fall without having in place, among other things, the pandemic law that we have just discussed. I think we agree on that. Madam President, I would like I am also concerned that Karin Rågsjö does not seem to know how private carers have actually been very helpful. For that they also deserve a warm thank you.
i-9Wa4WVsSr29bVxZtuFgjwA	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Grönvall, for your speech. The conditions of care for the elderly have been discussed in recent days and have indeed marked the debate. It has also, I think, almost seemed obvious that the conditions of care for the elderly now need to be improved. That's what everyone's up to. It's a woman-dominated sector. I do not know what Camilla Waltersson Grönvall thinks; I myself am quite sure that it matters what efforts have been made and have not been made. We can only look at who is taking part in this debate and discuss care for the elderly. I would like to put a question to Camilla Grönvall in connection with her speech. If the Riksdag today makes decisions in accordance with the proposal made by the Government and the cooperation parties, the municipalities will next year have 4 billion to care for the elderly. These are targeted means, but with a great deal of freedom. I will look forward to the follow-up to what the 4 billion is spent on. And I can promise that I will keep an extra eye on my party friends, so that they really use these resources where they direct to providing permanent employment, to remove shared tours and to ensure that quality really improves. Can Camilla Waltersson Grönvall make the same promise to the municipalities where her party friends in the Moderates rule?
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-165	Madam President, I would like One of the positive elements of the interim report that came on Tuesday is that I am quite convinced that we will be discussing with greater intensity the care of the elderly. It's necessary. It is clear from the Crorna Commission's report that the current government but also the previous governments have not done what they have had to do. However, I would like to remind you that the previous government was also red-green. So we have had six years of social democratic rule. It is very easy to use big vulcanized words, but I note that very little has happened. In view of that, I would like to ask the Minister of Social Affairs a question back. An elderly investigation was set up to look at the health of the elderly. It closed the Social Democratic Government, under Minister Åsa Regnér, down. Why did they do that? Why was it said that the Socialist side would come back with proposals? Stefan Löfven also made quite strong promises about care for the elderly. But of this it has become nothing. I find that interesting. I can promise the Minister of Social Affairs that when it comes to keeping an eye on our fellow party members, it will probably apply to all of us. I choose to believe that there is a common interest and commitment among all in improving our common care for the elderly.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-169	Madam President, I would like Talking about care for the elderly will not be enough. It has been done for a long time. I will, of course, talk about care for the elderly in my speech. There are many measures that have been taken and that will be taken. Camilla Waltersson Grönvall! When the Commission says this government and previous governments, I am quite sure that it does not refer to six years back. The same report speaks of decades of omission. I had one question, which I thought was straightforward and clear, in connection with Camilla Grönvall's speech. That's what the line shift is for. I'll ask the question again, and I'll do it for a reason. There are moderate-led municipalities that, in the shadow of the pandemic, take the opportunity to close the municipal home service. They do not increase resources at all but withdraw them. They reduce taxes and obviously think that this is the right way to support staff who need better opportunities to provide good care for the elderly. Can Camilla Waltersson Grönvall guarantee that the moderate-led municipalities will now use their share of all the contributions to the budget to improve the conditions for those working in the care of the elderly, on which the Commission and everyone else agree?
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-173	Madam President, I would like Although the Minister of Social Affairs did not understand my answer, I hope everyone else did. I thought I was pretty clear. But I can repeat it if the Minister of Social Affairs didn't quite get it. It is clear that we all have a responsibility to ensure that the next time comes. We're not just going to talk, we're going to bet for things to happen in our care for the elderly. It's just like usual. That it's always someone else's fault has become a bit of a signature for our Minister of Social Affairs. Being Minister of Social Affairs also means taking a big responsibility for the care of the elderly. It has a responsibility to see that what needs to happen has not happened during the six years in which the government has been responsible. At the media appearances that we have seen, it has always been someone else's fault. It is the fault of the regions, it is the fault of the municipalities and it may be the fault of others. But it's not the government's fault, not the welfare minister's. I think this is the time to take responsibility.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-176	Madam President, I would like It's a strange time we're in. The Coronandemist is holding us in an iron grip, and we do not know how the future will be designed. We can only take one day at a time. In politics, the covid-19 pandemic continues to dominate. For obvious reasons, other issues are not given the same priority. Today, however, I choose to redirect the order of priorities for a little while and initially focus on another direction. I would like to highlight some of the selected investments in our budget option. I wanted to start by talking about women's health and the fact that Swedish health care cannot be regarded as equal. Women and men should be offered equal and qualitative care, regardless of whether the recipient of the care is male or female. That is not the case today. We must therefore dare to ask ourselves why medical measures differ. We also need to question why, for example, only a minority of all drug studies have included women. This, in turn, has led to the knowledge of women's biology being considerably lower than the knowledge of men's biology. There are many examples of unequal relationships between men and women, both in health care and in research. Research on women's diseases is not a priority today. It is also difficult for researchers to get funding. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats believe that research on women's diseases should be clearly highlighted as a priority. For this reason, we also want to see a national research programme on women's health. Work on women's health must be given higher priority. The unequal treatment of women and men needs to be carefully examined and analysed in order to bring about a change. Madam President, I would like I would also like to raise the issue of cervical cancer. Although Sweden has a comprehensive screening programme, 550 women suffer from cervical cancer every year, and more than 150 women die of that cancer every year. This means that a woman dies of cervical cancer every two to three days. Cervical cancer is the first form of cancer that the World Health Organisation aims to eradicate. It is a global target for total elimination of cervical cancer. It has also led several countries around the world to launch ambitious eradication programmes. Since it is a virus that is responsible for virtually all cervical cancer, vaccination and screening with gynecological cell testing can be used. Women receiving human papillomavirus vaccines, HPV vaccines, are protected against cervical cancer of up to 90%. We therefore believe that women who carry out their first screening at the age of 23 or 26 should be offered HPV vaccination and screening, regardless of where they live in the country. That is why we need a national initiative to eradicate cervical cancer, and the state must ensure that this can be done by covering the costs of the regions for this. If we get participation in screening at national level and at the same time vaccinate more young people against the HPV virus, cervical cancer can be eliminated in the long term, and life can be saved. With a national programme, this can take place within a period of five years. Madam President, I would like Mental ill health is one of the greatest public health challenges of our time and it was also long before the covid-19 pandemic hit us. Isolation, involuntary loneliness and economic vulnerability are examples of conditions that are enhanced during the pandemic. The need for a nationwide function in the form of a support line for people with mental disorders and suicidal thoughts existed before the pandemic, and demand has increased significantly during the pandemic and can be expected to increase even more after this crisis. The Swedish Democrats have never questioned the need for a nationwide support function. For us, it is obvious that this function should exist, and we have clearly stood up for and have highlighted the importance of taking a national responsibility in this matter. Of course, it would have been good if we had had a national support phone now in a situation where many are sitting in isolation and alone, where the worry is growing and where the risk of impaired mental health is increasing. Instead, we are now waiting for the Public Health Agency to investigate an obvious need. Madam President, I would like The Coronandem will continue to be a priority and will certainly be for a long time to come. Over the last few days, we have been reminded once again and shaken by the terrible shortcomings that have emerged in the care of the elderly during the pandemic. They can mainly be referred to previously known structural problems in the care of the elderly. It is recurring, and the pandemic has really highlighted the shortcomings that we need to take with us in the work of building the health care of the future and tomorrow's care for the elderly. The spread of infection in society and current issues of the pandemic will continue to be part of the daily work, not least in the Social Affairs Committee. I am pleased that during this very special time we have been able to cooperate well and agree on important proposals. Finally, I would like to thank the committee for its good cooperation and wish everyone a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-192	Madam President, I would like It has continued to be applauded from the balconies. The staff who have made an extreme effort throughout 2020 have become visible to what they do: saving lives and caring for the elderly. The Left Party agrees with the tributes, but we believe that health workers and those in the care sector should have better working conditions, wages and work environment instead of an empty thank you. We should be proud of the care we have in Sweden. We're supposed to protect it, not privatize and let the market take over it. Once again, I would like to remind you that it is not the state and Stefan Löfven who are responsible for the care itself in the regions. For example, the Moderates and Christian Democrats who govern 13 regions and the Centre Party are in charge of 19 of 21 regions. I think that sometimes we spend too much time doing a blame game. The voters out there don't deserve it. You have to see your own part in what's happening. This is everyone's responsibility. The responsibility lies with all parties, current and former governments, regions and municipalities. Madam President, I would like Cutbacks and privatisations have led to undersized health care and care for the elderly with a shortage of staff, equipment and protective clothing. We have had to pay dearly for that during covid-19. Medical care has had to change and focus completely on the patients who have been most affected by covid-19. It has meant difficult priorities where operations and treatments that have not been vital have been cancelled. Now they're cancelled again. If we had had a healthcare system with more air in the systems, more employees and more care places, the starting point would have been better. At the moment, we have the lowest number of care places per capita in the EU. This has been going on since the early 2000s. It's nothing new. It didn't come this year. Now, Madam President, long-term investment in staff, salaries, conditions and skills development should be self-evident even after covid-19. The left wants to see long-term investments in healthcare and care. It's a must. In our draft budget, we have increased spending on health care and especially in regions with large rural areas. A national strategy is needed to create a sufficient number of care places based on demographic needs and emergency preparedness. The regions look different and have different economic conditions. Regions with high depopulation and with many poor pensioners find it difficult to invest more money. Other regions spend a lot of money on consultants or on extremely good conditions for the online medical companies, these goldens. Madam President, I would like Until 2026, it is estimated that approximately 118 000 people will need to be recruited just to maintain the same level of care services as today. A long-term training plan is needed to educate all those who will be needed in healthcare and care. The Pandemine is hitting the mental state hard. Even before the pandemic, we saw an increase in mental illness. For all those who need a strengthened psychiatry during the pandemic, we are doing reinforcements. The teeth are indeed a class marker, Madam President. The Left Party wants to introduce a stronger high-cost protection in dental care. The proposal means that all costs above SEK 2 000 are fully subsidised over a 12-month period. This is a class issue and a matter of decency. The cost of the reform is as high as the cost of the payments. Either the government invests that those who have it best get help with hanging up the chandelier, screwing up the furniture or guarding the house, or they invest in equality reforms like this one. You can create a society in which even those who have a nurse's salary do not avoid the dentist in order to avoid an economic disaster. You can have an equal society. Madam President, I would like Should we have understood that the elderly who have been on the starvation line for so long would be a death trap for so many older ones? About half of the deceased in covid-19 are elderly from retirement homes. They are the easy victims of a dangerous virus in an elderly care that was not equipped but dismantled. A person with contributions from the home service alone meets an average of 15 different people for 14 days. That's what it looked like before covid-19. Imagine having 15 people running at home! The proportion of personnel who followed correct hygiene procedures was 55 per cent before covid-19. This is an employer's issue, and it does not look very good. It is only now that covid-19 has entered the care of the elderly that you can hear very upset voices. Suddenly, all parties are calling for permanent employment. It feels very good for us in the Left Party. The interest in improved working conditions for the large group working in the care of the elderly is also on top right now. I hope it will continue even after covid-19, because it is important. This is an issue that we must pursue together. We can't just drop it after covid-19 is over and we've all been given vaccines. It is important to improve the working environment and working conditions and to ensure that staff receive training and want to remain in care for the elderly. However, the elderly are still being infected in retirement homes, Madam President. There is still a lack of protective equipment, and it is still teeming with hourly workers. I hope that this time the elderly will receive an assessment from a doctor on the spot, not one who, via mobile, prescribes palliative care. It's unworthy. It is they who built our country that did not receive these visits. Surely that is the responsibility of the regions. Madam President, I would like Staff is the key to the ability to have high quality in care for the elderly. That is why the Left Party has today put a committee initiative in the Finance Committee to the effect that the government should urgently return to Parliament with proposals for increased resources for elderly care. The funds shall be used to improve the quality of care for the elderly through increased staffing and conversion of fixed-term services into open-ended services. Now there is full access to this in the Finance Committee. We hope, of course, that this can be achieved through us together. There is a need for secure, full-time permanent employment, increased staffing density and investment in continuing training. Shared tours should be voluntary, and you should be paid all day. Strengthened medical competence is super important. There should be nurses and doctors in place. People should be allowed to have developing leisure and social activities. It should be the Elders' turn by now. We do, and I hope the rest of you will agree. Madam President, I would like Should six - year - olds learn to swim wherever they live, whether they live in Järva or in Lomma? That's what we think. We want free swimming school for six-year-olds and prevention. This is to be proactive. Trafficking in human beings and prostitution go hand in hand. This is where we need to bet. The Left Party wants to see a national resource centre against prostitution and human trafficking for sexual purposes. No woman under slave-like conditions should end up in Sweden and be exploited. Everybody wants a job to go to and a paycheck that falls into the end of the month. You want to be able to buy skates for the kids and put sensible food on the table. At a time when many people, especially from the parties to the right, call sickness benefit instead of insurance, income support is of course particularly sensitive. To blame the self-disorder must not become the norm, but it has become so in a society where so many do not realize that one can suddenly become ill and insured. Suddenly you can become poor, simply. We do not think that the children are being punished for the fact that Mom does not manage despite her job or perhaps has been insured by Försäkringskassan, which is unfortunately very common today. We therefore want to increase the allocation to the national standard for supply aid. Children should not be punished for the shortcomings of parents. Children should not feel less worth than other children. Maybe Mom's salary from four check jobs at von Schnabel's house and others aren't enough, although Mom is trying hard. I think we can afford decency. To all of you who work throughout Christmas in healthcare and care: There are many who will back up your demands for a sensible working environment and sensible wages. Sweden can do better. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the whole committee, which has worked so well together, for its good cooperation. I think so, although sometimes I have a hard tone. We've done a lot together, more than I ever thought. I would like to wish both you and the staff here, who are working with us, a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. Let's hope we can all walk out of here very vaccinated on the last June, you guys!
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-216	Madam President, I would like I agree with Karin Rågsjö's analysis that everyone really needs to be helped together during the pandemic. I also agree with Karin Rågsjö's view that we should not devote ourselves to anything and point fingers. Yet this is exactly what Karin Rågsjö is repeatedly engaged in by pointing the finger and identifying private companies in health care that gold diggers do not stand up. I think this is a false picture, and I am strongly opposed to it. I don't think Karin Rågsjö is up to date about what the private healthcare companies are doing. I would therefore like to inform you that, for example, Aleris and Proliva have quickly trained staff and lent to Region Stockholm, for example, to facilitate the situation. Sophiahemmet trains staff at a furious pace to relieve and facilitate the situation. My question to Karin Rågsjö is how she believes that the Left Party's argumentation contributes to this type of good initiative and cooperation that exists.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-218	Madam President, I would like I thank Sofia Nilsson for the question. As everyone knows, we are against profits in welfare, but we are not against the companies themselves. I live in a region where there are very many private actors. This has meant a strong fragmentation of care. Health care in the Stockholm region, which is the region with the most private practitioners, both in care for the elderly and in care, has become very two-way. It kind of doesn't add up. What we've seen during the pandemic is that this is no longer working. It's not that I'm just saying it into the air, but it's people employed in public health care in Stockholm who say it. Public health care is in some way washed up, for so many people are being taken away from public health care and landed in private health care. Sure, they're making a difference. But now it is also the case that Region Stockholm has explicitly asked the private health care providers that exist to help in the extremely acute situation that prevails. It hasn't worked very well. Not many people come rushing to the emergency hospitals and to the wards. I think this is a problem. I don't have any problems with private carers, but the care needs to be connected. Health care must work in a region. It no longer does so in the Stockholm region, which I am extremely concerned about. Yeah, I call the online medical companies golddiggers. I do because in this region they have made sure to get over patients, for example, through a very specially designed app. There's been a lot of writing about it. Patients have been transferred from healthcare units and centres to their own operations. There's black and white about it. I think you should help each other. I don't think you should focus on the profit you can squeeze out.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-224	Madam President, I would like I thank Karin Rågsjö for her answer. I still find it a great pity that the Left Party is constantly engaged in this point finger-behavior. Again, in the pandemic, we have actually seen private companies that have gone ahead, for example in the care of the elderly. One of them was the first to introduce oral protection and to ensure that both staff protect them from the introduction of the infection and protect the elderly from becoming infected. That is why I find it very tragic when you keep pointing your finger at the private people. As regards what Karin Rågsjö mentioned in her reply regarding the fact that public health care is washed out because people flee it, I think it would have been nice for the Left Party to respond to how it will be ensured to strengthen public health care, so that staff chooses to stay. Somewhere there are problems that make you choose the private side.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-227	Madam President, I would like Now it is true that there has been a huge rush in healthcare elections in the Stockholm region. I may sound completely fixated on Stockholm, but this is true. There has also been a huge reduction in public health care in the Stockholm region. This can be told by staff — doctors, nurses, and nurses. It has long been understaffed in the Stockholm region, and there has been a very poor staff policy. I think that you should raise wages, give people better conditions and hire more, so that it simply becomes a decent care. The Stockholm region's problems right now look like they do because there was nothing to start from – there were too few employees already when the pandemic started. I think this is super important. I am absolutely convinced that there are lots of private caregivers doing a great job. But the winnings are still a huge question, I think.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-230	Madam President, I would like I am extremely proud and grateful for what my former colleagues, namely health care staff and elderly care staff, are doing, not just now during the pandemic, but 24 hours a day seven days a week all year round. You guys are amazing! This debate will be about the state budget for next year. Like Karin Rågsjö, I hope that that year will look significantly different from what this year has done. The budget covers a great deal. These include health care, public health, disability policy, care for the elderly and social services policy. It also includes appropriations for our authorities. We rarely mention these in our debates. It is the Swedish National Board of Health, Public Health and the Swedish Medical Products Agency and others. The important functions of our authorities. They have become somewhat public as a result of the pandemic situation. I would also like to take this opportunity to mention that twelve additional amending budgets have been presented in the past year to combat precisely the damage caused by the pandemic. Like a former Member in the debate, I do not intend to devote the vast majority of my speech today to the pandemic. I believe that we will continue to focus on this in many and long debates in the future. As a Socialist Member, I am incredibly proud of this budget, which is the most comprehensive one I have seen in decades. In fact, I can't remember that this spending area, what I've ever found in my back research, has had any budget that was more extensive than this one. It goes without saying that it is not possible to highlight all the individual efforts made in all the policy areas I mentioned at the outset, but rather to make a few cuts. I'll start with the health care. Here the government and the cooperation parties provide general state subsidies which are the largest ever added. It is important that there is general support, because of course there is great variation between regions and municipalities in what money needs to be used for and in what way. Here I would like to stress the extremely important responsibility of local representatives in regions and municipalities to use resources smartly and well. Primary care is one of my heart issues. It has been debated for the last 20 years. Finally, I feel that there are major investments in primary care – combined with a first step in a primary care reform. When it comes to cancer care, access really needs to be increased. We must work to reduce regional disparities. We have to deal with the pent-up care needs that exist after covid-19. The whole chain of care needs to be strengthened in cancer care. It's the same when it comes to ambulance care. People in need of emergency medical care often also need an ambulance. The care chain must be connected, and the skills must be there. We need to strengthen childbirth and women's health care. The already ongoing effort to strengthen this is great, and it will continue and increase. I am pleased that the issue of equality in health care is raised in the debate. We certainly do not talk about this often enough. We want to combat mental illness. It is a priority area for government and cooperation parties. We are well aware of this problem. It has been increasing for a long time, and it will increase further in the situation that we have. The last few days and ever since the pandemic began, a huge focus has been on elderly care. I very much welcome the fact that everyone has shown a greater interest than ever in care for the elderly. If we look back at our previous spending-area debates, elderly care has certainly not been given much focus. Having spent most of my working life working for the elderly with the elderly, following the political debate, I can see that we are finally beginning to debate what is most important. High-quality care for the elderly must cost more money. That is why I am proud that the government is giving 4 billion to elderly care. It is as I have said in almost all the debates: no care is better than the care the staff can perform out there in the special accommodation or home care. It is about working conditions, working environment, skills, management and, last but not least, there are enough. Therefore, I expect municipal decision-makers to start working on it as soon as possible, because money exists. But more money will be needed. The elderly care lift presented by the government means that 10 000 people have the opportunity to educate themselves. In what other profession is it tolerated that completely unskilled staff work? I am pleased that many municipalities have already taken this to heart and started their education. The assistant nurse will become a protected professional title. This is one way of ensuring that employers can feel confident about the skills of their staff when they are employed, and care providers can feel confident about the quality of their care. The Government introduces a state grant to promote a sustainable working life in health and long-term care. It's really needed. Now we can start improving the working environment and working conditions. I would also like to mention research in the field of elderly care. We need to develop evidence-based methods of what is best practice when caring for the elderly. It is about how injuries and diseases can be prevented far up in the ages and how older people can be best rehabilitated. The work that is going on to develop a permanent care contact in the home care service and a permanent doctor contact in primary care is also very important for our elderly. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I am extremely proud that the Social Democratic-led government, together with its partner parties, is now putting an extremely strong budget on the table of Parliament. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-251	Madam President, I would like We are in a time of trial. In one way or another, the Coronapendem in the country has touched all of us. Some may have been affected and sick themselves. Others may have a mother or father, friend or relative, grandmother or grandfather who died in the suites of covid-19. Others have been greatly affected by working in health care, in care for the elderly, in home care, or in intensive care. The Pandemine has beaten the country mercilessly with the death toll of over 7,600 people to this day. Not least, the infection has hit our elderly hard. Nearly nine out of ten who died were 70 years of age or older. More than a quarter of them were home helpers. Nearly half of them lived in special housing. Behind each number is an individual, a person who has left us too early, there is a family or close relatives who have lost their life mate. Madam President, I would like What wasn't allowed to happen, it happened. The infection got into our special accommodations and resulted in nastyly high death rates. The stories that we have heard about how the elderly have not received an individual assessment, not received oxygen, how relatives have not been able to participate in the end of life, and how health professionals feel that they have been left wind by wave without knowing exactly how to handle the situation. It's both unworthy and outrageous. As in the spring, we now see how the spread of infection is at a very high level and how it has once again penetrated our many retirement homes. Here the government must now take its responsibilities seriously and be self-critical in order to draw the right conclusions and be able to take action. As both the IVO audit and the Corona Commission pointed out, the country's elderly care needs to be strengthened on many levels. Because the crisis is far from over. We must continue to do everything we can to ensure that healthcare and care for the elderly have the necessary resources and tools, both now and in the long term. Madam President, I would like The budget we are debating today has been greatly influenced by the pandemic. It is a budget in which elderly care and health care receive billions of dollars. In total, we are talking about almost 20 billion for welfare. I can say that it is with pride that I and the Center Party are involved in presenting this budget because it is one of the biggest investments in Swedish elderly care ever. Because if there is any area where we really see that we have to invest in the pandemic, it is precisely elderly care. Because even though the situation is often black at the moment and the criticisms from IVO and the Corona Commission are both sharp and heavy, we must aim to focus on measures that have an effect both here and now and in the long term. The budget for 2021 means, as I said, very large investments in Sweden's municipalities and regions. These include general state subsidies, support for the management of deferred care and strong reinforcement of care for the elderly. However, the budget also includes major and important investments in mental illness, maternity care and women's health. Madam President, I would like The responsibility now rests heavily on all of us to lay the foundations for an elderly care with high quality and security. In addition to a general boost of SEK 4 billion, municipalities receive new contributions to the development of local dementia care, which is a welcome initiative. During this year we have heard of criticisms and shortcomings in the care of the elderly, which have shaken many fundamentally. One of the most serious shortcomings is that the elderly have not received an individual medical assessment on particular accommodations. This criticism is very, very serious and something we must take action against at once. Getting an individual medical assessment is a statutory right, and abandoning it is something that we absolutely cannot accept. To ensure this, hard work is needed. On the one hand, better cooperation and coordination between municipalities and regions is needed, on the other hand, and above all, it is about the need for doctors to be available in the regions for the municipalities. Here we need to take action both in the short and long term. Here we see in the Center Party the primary care reform and the goal of permanent doctors and close care as important components. Right now we are rolling out a primary care reform aimed at everyone getting a permanent doctor and that the care will be available both digitally and physically. Precisely a fixed doctor's contact is often crucial for us to offer safe and secure care for our elderly. Knowing your doctor by name and knowing that he or she knows you creates security for both the elderly and their relatives and lays the foundation for a good assessment and planning of care. However, medical assessment and competence in care for the elderly are not just about doctors. An equally important category of staff for medical assessment is our nurses, who often form the basis for municipal health care interventions in elderly care. Right now we are investing strongly in support for education and in lifting the health professions. The criticism expressed by the Corona Commission concerns, among other things, the lack of medical skills and equipment on specific accommodations. As I said, nurses play an important role here. The Commission points out that, as a general rule, a nurse should be available on every special accommodation 24 hours a day during every day of the week. If we are to meet this target of staffing set out by the Commission, we need to do more to ensure that more nurses want to work in the care of the elderly. We need to get more people to train, and we need to get more people to further train as a specialist nurse. There are major investments in this year's budget. The lack of nurses is something that has been brought to the attention of the Center Party in the past and where we have put forward a long series of proposals for action for many years. For example, thanks to last year's investment in the budget, you can now get paid training for specialist nurses. That is something that matters very much even now. Finally, I would like to highlight the Elderly Care Lift, which is about an investment of 2.2 billion in 2020 and 2021 and which is aimed at our important staff who are available in elderly care every day of the week and every day of the week. The elderly care lift aims to improve staff supply and make it more attractive to look for jobs in the care of the elderly. This initiative also aims to strengthen the competence in health care by giving new and existing staff the opportunity to undergo training to a nurse or assistant on paid working hours. It is an initiative that in the long term can improve the quality of care for the elderly from scratch. There are very many more investments in the budget that we presented together with the Liberals and the government. However, in view of the pandemic in which we find ourselves and the shortcomings that have been highlighted in the care of the elderly, I chose to dwell on the particular care of the elderly during today's debate. With the historically large investments that we are now making in municipalities and regions, we are laying a good economic foundation for starting the improvements that are so urgently needed. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-275	Madam President, I would like It is a large part of the budget in the social field that we are discussing today, 102 billion, and the needs are probably much greater than that. I would like to highlight what we Liberals are pleased to have included: that the hourly allowance and the standard for personal assistance have been increased. This means more in the wallet for those who work with this but also the opportunity for more management, competence development and so on. It's not an easy job to work as an assistant. This is an issue that started in the National Board of Health and Welfare in the early 80s, when Karl Grunewald was so clear that people with functional variations should be able to live lives like everyone else. There has also been money for ambulance care. I, who isolated myself as a obedient 70-pluser on our archipelago island in Stockholm's extreme sparsely populated area, can testify to the importance of ambulance care. It saves lives. We are also delighted with good and close care, which is very close to the house doctor reform that we in the Liberals started to drive in the 70s. This can provide close care, continuity and satisfaction for those seeking care, but also for those working in it. It also creates the conditions for continuity, which means a lot to the job satisfaction. I, who work so much on older people, naturally welcome this budget. It was also something that we started working on during my time at the National Board of Health and Welfare. It was not worthy to end your life in twelve-bed rooms in long-term care. One must be able to live as long as possible in one's own home, and if the home is too impractical, one must be able to live in an apartment – what we today call special accommodations. In this context, however, we must remember that this is a large and growing generation where it is perhaps 7% to 8% who need extensive efforts and help in their daily lives. All the others are a resource in society. Last week there was an investigation into how we take better care of the senior workforce in our society. They are so important, and it is important that they remain in working life – those who want and can – so that we can afford the welfare that we in the Social Committee are discussing here today. I am therefore very happy about the Elderly Care Lift and that within the framework of their ministry you can learn more so that you can go from assistant to assistant and perhaps also on to becoming a nurse. It is important to have that opportunity. We also have the other money allocated – 4 billion for elderly care. I have gained a deeper insight into home care and home care now during the investigation that I have led. It looks very different across the country. We now describe – and this is described in connection with the Corona Commission – all the sad activities that exist. But there are also very good activities, and if you look at their budgets you can see that it does not cost more to have high quality. If you have high quality and good management, there will be no staff turnover and not so high sick leave rates. It is therefore the staff turnover and poor skills of the employees who cost here. And it is not their fault; they have not had the opportunity to educate themselves. The misconception that exists in society becomes so clear. These are not simple jobs. It's qualified work to meet other people's needs – the things you can't do on your own. It's also lonely work, under pressure of time. I'm losing my mind about the minute bills that aid administrators put out. It takes different lengths of time to go to the bathroom different days. It takes different lengths of time to eat depending on what is on the plate. An overall assessment must be made so that you can work on the basis of the daily needs of the individual. I'm going to go over for a minute – I'm sorry. But I must add: now medical care is moving from hospitals into people's living rooms and bedchambers. In my investigation, we have proposed a permanent care contact, which should be able to keep it all together through its daily knowledge of the individuals. Home care must be able to cooperate with home care and with various professions such as logos and physiotherapists. You need to know that when Kalle or Anna starts to appear worse after changing medicines, it can be a drug side effect. These are qualified jobs that require nursing skills. I hope that the Minister for Social Affairs will mention a few words about what is happening with regard to the protected professional title for nurses and others. If we proceed with the proposals that exist and put them into practice rather than, as previous investigations since the age of older people's reform, becoming paper tigers, I think it will have the status of working in these activities. I am convinced that every day you can go home and feel proud that you have done what was needed for Anna, Kalle and their closest relatives. Those affected are, of course, the care provider himself, the relatives and the staff. If everyone's okay, we'll have a good community. In this speech, Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren (S) agreed.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-289	Madam President, I would like Just one year ago, we stood here debating the same budget, but quite a different one, for the past year. Soon, 349 Members would enter this Chamber to vote one last time before the Christmas holidays. Outside the Riksdag, on Drottninggatan, people were crowding each other in the shops to do what was needed for the upcoming leave. Then we were completely unaware of what was to come. The world simply looked different. There's one now and one then. When I watch movies that were recorded before the coronapandemy, at least I react when I see people crowding. I'm thinking, what are they doing? The whole world's population has been forced to adapt. On January 16, the Public Health Agency wrote on its side that a new virus was discovered in Wuhan, China. It was not seen that there was a risk that it would get to Sweden. Now we know better. We know that health threats are cross-border and that they easily travel from one continent to another and become a pandemic. We have learned a great deal about this, and it has exposed many cracks in our systems, both in our own country and internationally. This summer I had the pleasure of attending the UN Conference on Agenda 2030. Just like here in Sweden, covid-19 was the major topic of discussion – the concern that the poorer part of the world would be left behind, that aid and development cooperation would be withdrawn, that vaccines would not benefit the whole world and that women would get hurt. Madam President, I would like Covid-19 has certainly put the light on the cracks that already existed in our societies. Yesterday we listened to the Corona Commission, which told us what it looked like in the care of the elderly. This is of course shocking news – or perhaps not really news, because we have seen for quite some time that there have been cracks in the care of the elderly. These are cracks that, unfortunately, no government has taken hold of. Madam President, I would like If you look at the care of the elderly, you can see that there are two sides. On the one hand, it is about what the working environment looks like in this women-dominated industry, where many people lack a permanent job and a lot of people are called in for hours. It is a low-status job, which deserves so much more. My friends, we have 2 million pensioners in Sweden who take part in elderly care in home care or special housing. This is where we have to put our resources. It is absolutely amazing that we are all now talking about how important this is. In the state budget for 2021, we are making a historic investment in elderly care. After all, we agree that we must take care of this. I think everyone should sit down and think a little about how horrendous it would be if I, who today cares for myself and doesn't need help with anything but is strong, manage me and have my health, suddenly ended up in a situation where in a couple of weeks maybe ten different people will shower me. It's people we don't know who come in there to handle the most intimate thing. This is offensive and something that no one should have to be exposed to. There are two sides to the coin. We must raise the status, improve the structures of those working in the care of the elderly and improve medical facilities in the care of the elderly. We live longer, and we need more care. Then we must ensure that all people in our beautiful Sweden have the right to a dignified old age. Then there must be better conditions in the care of the elderly. Madam President, I would like Our medical services have been working hard. With resources that are, after all, finite, they have been able to stretch hugely, and this is still being done because of the spread of infection that is taking place. To date, over 7 000 people have been killed in the pandemic. That's 7,000 people too much. What is important is that we really protect the medical staff we have in our country and ensure that they have good forms of employment. There is an important budget investment in the so-called recovery bonus. It will help to make the work environment better and lighten the pressure for those who work in healthcare and care. Madam President, I would like We have made a great deal of effort in this budget. It is a historic investment in health care and social care, and I am very proud of the budgetary cooperation that we have within the January parties. We do a lot of good things in the direction that we need to go in terms of primary care reform, care for the elderly and, not least, psychiatry. Unfortunately, we know that many young people feel bad in our country, and it has been put at the head of the coronapndemine. We know that many are lonely, feel vulnerable and anxious. Therefore, it is very important that we continue to invest in psychiatry. This is not something on which we disagree between the parties in the Committee on Social Affairs. But now we are implementing it in this budget, and I am very proud and happy about that. With that, Madam President, I would like to thank you for the floor and to support the committee's proposal and the proposal. I look forward to listening to our eminent Minister of Social Affairs next.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-305	Madam President, I would like Throughout December, the Riksdag has debated the Government's budget proposal for 2021. Last out is Category 9 Health, health and social care – issues that have certainly been the focus of the year that has been. Never before has the choice between investing in welfare and reducing taxes been clearer. During the last term of office, the government chose a new path. We eliminated major tax cuts and invested over 35 billion in welfare. At the same time, we paid off our national debt and built a buffer to use in worse times. Before the crisis broke out, 350 000 more were in work compared to when Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister. 100,000 more worked in welfare, and there were 100,000 more places of education, many of them for welfare professions. In addition, the economy was in order. There were resources to take off. The common strength we have built has been used to save lives, jobs and Swedish welfare. Since the outbreak of the virus, the government, the Center Party and the Liberals have presented emergency measures in no less than 13 additional amending budgets. These are measures for over SEK 250 billion this year and the following year. It is so much money, but it is measures that strengthen health care and care for the elderly. These are measures that save Swedish jobs and companies. These are measures that strengthen the security of the unemployed. The past year shows why we need a strong society that can cope with pressures, a society that is able to act in crisis. The past year has also shown the risks of weakening society, whether through huge tax cuts or through the disarmament of public structures. Sweden, as many have said from this pulpit, has perhaps the world's best health and care personnel. We have disease control units throughout the country, but previous governments of different colours have dismantled the layers of protective equipment that once existed. The liberalisation of the pharmacy market has made it more difficult to provide a robust supply of medicines. The government's investigation into health care preparedness in 2018 has not yet been able to present any proposals, but our institutional structures were initially not sufficiently prepared for this pandemic. The legislation was not sufficiently developed. This has become most obvious in the care of the elderly. The Corona Commission presented its first interim report on Tuesday. The Commission notes that, despite the great efforts of managers and staff, care for the elderly was not sufficiently prepared. It describes elderly care as a resource-driven part of society with an undervalued profession. For these structural deficiencies, the government, as in the past, bears ultimate responsibility. I feel that responsibility. If previous governments feel the same responsibility, it is more difficult to find answers to, but despite major investments during the last parliamentary term, we could have done more. Many years ago, we should have protected the professional title of nurse, as Mr Westerholm mentioned earlier. Many years ago, we should have developed an older care bill. Above all, we should have made sure that the funds provided by the state to municipalities and regions have been more advanced in the care of the elderly and in the care of the elderly. It is most reasonable that this should be raised in today's debate. Area of expenditure 9 is large. It's Swedish welfare. It covers health policy, public health policy, disability policy and social services policy. Let me mention just a few examples. We will increase the hourly rate of personal assistance by 31⁄2 percent. We double the support for the Swedish Demenscentrum. We invest in the State Department Board and subsidies for family homes. In addition, the government is budgeting SEK 4 billion to the regions for the management of deferred care, SEK 100 million to enhanced ambulance care, SEK 100 million to strengthened cancer care, recovery bonus and trauma support. Pinging off the health debt that the pandemic has brought will be a very large and very difficult job for the government and for the regions. Accessibility to Swedish healthcare needs structural improvement. The Government has therefore appointed Sweden's first national accessibility delegation. The delegation will both support the work of the regions and review national efforts, such as a developed health guarantee. This is the right way to go: cooperation across different levels of decision-making and borders. Problems we best solve together. We will also structurally strengthen primary care. I am pleased that the January agreement clearly states that we are going to push through a primary care reform during this term of office. Sofia Nilsson has made good use of some of her speech to describe that work. I would also like to thank the Center Party and the Liberals for our good cooperation in developing close care. To strengthen the right to a permanent doctor, to contribute SEK 3.3 billion per year to the close care and a proposal to tighten the legislation are measures to better build healthcare in Sweden. A fixed doctor is not only practical for both patients and doctors. It also increases the quality of care. In particular, it does so for our very oldest. Reforming primary care is something that many governments have gone after before. I am extremely humbled by that task, but I also feel that the support for doing so is much stronger than it has been in the past. Let me return to what I started with, namely, care for the elderly. The government proposes in the budget 7.4 billion, a huge investment in elderly care. 3.4 billion will be used for the Elderly Care Lift, which means that both the newly recruited person and the person who is already employed in the care of the elderly will have the opportunity to study as a carer or assistant on paid working hours. The cost is borne by the State for the time the employee is absent due to the studies. The employer guarantees permanent employment. We are also preparing legislative proposals to protect the professional title of nurse. It is very important to be able to get to an increased status, to feel that you are not replaced by anyone when you may be on sick leave or on parental leave, going on vacation or need to be free. It does not strengthen self-esteem that anyone can replace you. This is a very important part. We will, as announced, set up an investigation into a new care law for the elderly. The Government Office also prepares Barbro Westerholm's proposal in the recent investigation into the introduction of a permanent care contact in the home service, which is therefore possible to take care of. During the previous term of office, the right to free work clothes was strengthened, and a coordinator is in place in terms of skills provision in the care of the elderly – a lot of work to take forward. Ultimately, the change also needs to take place around the country. To help this, the Government allocates SEK 4 billion annually in a targeted state grant. This targeted state grant is intended for the elderly care of municipalities. I would describe it as a new model for state subsidies. The government does not specify in detail which parts of the elderly care are to be used, but the government expects and will follow up that the money is being used precisely to strengthen elderly care. As I have said in a previous change of line, I look forward to the follow-up. What has been the result? Has quality been strengthened? Does it matter? Are there parts of this that we can move on with? I will keep an eye on the reform at all, not least on my party friends and ask them to describe how the funds are used where they run. I would like to hear today whether the other parties are prepared to do the same. Can you promise that your municipal representatives will ensure that the EUR 4 billion that the government is now making available actually means reinforcements in the care of the elderly, that the funds are used for more staffing, to increase the continuity of staff or to counteract the loneliness of the elderly, to abolish shared tours, to offer full-time jobs, to employ staff on permanent posts? These are precisely the questions raised by the Corona Commission on Tuesday. I hope and believe that the Swedish Parliament can jointly put welfare first.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-331	Madam President, I would like Like many others, I have read the Corona Commission's interim report with dismay. There is so much I recognise from the shortcomings we have been working on and a clarity of the lack of responsibility. The Commission divides responsibility into, among other things, the structural shortcomings, in which we are all responsible for what should have been done for a long time. It is precisely lack of perseverance that is the big thing. Government shifts have made us lose out on what has already been decided to do to make up something of our own. We need to take joint responsibility for this. The Commission is also clear about the shortcomings of the spring, and that is where the government is responsible. During the crisis, despite the shortcomings of municipalities and regions that were completely unprepared, it is the government that will step forward and assume the national joint responsibility.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-335	Madam President, I would like With all due respect for Mr Ankarberg's question, this is a budget debate. I do not intend to go through in any detail how we intend to deal with the interim report we received two days ago. But of course we will come back. What I have described and what I am happy to develop here is an older care legislation. I am absolutely convinced that such a thing is required. I think that Mr Ankarberg Johansson gave an exemplary, nuanced speech earlier in the budget debate. She described the difficulties and challenges of an activity in which all of us in this House are well aware of the existence of 290 municipalities and 21 regions. We may think what we want to do about it, but how can we best be able to manage in ways that give equivalence across the country, how can the efforts that I believe we often agree on become a reality when employer responsibility lies locally and when it is the parties who negotiate working conditions? If we then come to the issues relating to the beginning of the pandemic in the spring, the Corona Commission has not had the opportunity to make comparisons with spring and the second wave we are in now. What have we learned? My picture is that much still looks different. It is about the knowledge of how the virus spreads and how to better protect oneself. Protective equipment has been purchased. The National Board of Health and Welfare has developed channels. It is also a question of providing support to municipalities that are asking for support. I heard someone say earlier in the debate that there is a lack of protective equipment. The National Board of Health and Welfare's opinion is that when someone requests support, you can get it from the National Board of Health and Welfare. I very much hope that those who feel that there is a deficiency should not, of course, be content with that, but that they will make sure to call off support from the National Board of Health and Welfare. Training efforts have been made. I would also say that the whole discussion on restraining orders, which is indeed about very difficult trade-offs, is also a tool in which it feels better to issue local restraining orders, which I hope the municipalities will use when they feel they need it.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-339	Madam President, I would like This is a budget debate. That is also why it is women who represent all parties because we are first names in committee. That is why we are taking the important budget debate. I noted that the Minister of Social Affairs commented on this earlier. On the basis of the Corona Commission's report, it will be difficult if it is not met with measures in the near future. The measures may be of an economic nature, but it may also be about how to use the funds that go out to the municipalities on a broad front now. I am pleased to note that the Minister for Social Affairs intends to follow up on this issue now. We also intend to do this on the part of the Christian Democrats. Is this not the time to discuss to ensure that the address tag is correct, so that we know that the money is being spent in the best way? Perhaps there are reasons for the government to supplement with more decisions concerning budget initiatives and follow-up. It is not possible to be satisfied when you have read the Corona Commission report. Action is needed in the near future, and I assume that the government will take them.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-342	Madam President, I would like If I signal in any way that the government is satisfied, that is wrong. It's not my intention to do. Since this is a budget debate and because Mr Ankarberg Johansson is talking about the near future, I would like to say that we have not waited for the Corona Commission's interim report, but we took action in the spring. The elderly care lift was then decided in agreement between the Government, SKR and the Association of Municipal Workers. I believe that it is fundamentally a wise way of having structural changes when one demands that the person who gets a job be given a permanent job – in order to address that problem – to ensure that the person who does not have a proper education gets it and that the responsibility is not placed on the individual to make the financial sacrifice. I think this hits many of the problems. Of course, we need to ensure that more and more people get a share of this. The agreement made last spring involved 10 000 people – 2.2 billion. It is almost double for 2021, as a concrete example of what we are doing here and now.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-346	Madam President, I would like In all regions, there is enormous pressure on health departments right now. In Stockholm, nationwide operations for children have been cancelled, and the staff now go in and support covid care. At the same time, Region Stockholm has appealed to the huge number of private healthcare providers in the Stockholm region to help. But few have heeded this. Madam President, I would like Is it not time to legislate for private carers in a crisis to be submitted to the regions?
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-349	Madam President, I would like I thank Karin Rågsjö for the question. There's a lot of pressure. That's because we're still in the middle of a pandemic. After the first wave had passed, I felt that many took a sigh of relief and began to wonder how life would return to the more normal. This, of course, has not happened, and this has been felt by health professionals. This means that now that they are entering a situation that many find much more difficult than the first, they are not doing so with the same full force as when the pandemic started. I cannot comment on how individual regions deal with this. It's hard. On the other hand, Karin Rågsjö asks a question about legislation. I think it is an excellent issue for the committee to discuss further. It is not uncommon for committees to take committee initiatives. It is not my call for initiatives to be taken, but there is, of course, that way.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-353	Madam President, I would like The work of the Corona Commission has been followed, and we have read an interim report with dismay. I believe that many are responsible. The crisis began sometime in the 1990s when people began to cut into the care of the elderly and the well-being. We have now put forward a proposal for a committee initiative in the Committee on Finance that the government should urgently allocate more money to the municipalities so that they can quickly convert all the hourly services that still exist into fixed services. We think this is a relevant and important issue. What does the Government think about that committee initiative?
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-356	Madam President, I would like Karin Rågsjö did not follow up her first question. I can say that where there are committee initiatives that gain a majority, it is up to the government to deal with them, and before those committee initiatives are dealt with, I have no comments. This is also in the Committee on Finance, so I think it is appropriate for the discussion to continue there. I cannot help underlining that we are having a debate here and now – the club has not even fallen – on a budget that includes very large additions of resources. It will be easy so that once it is presented you should exceed those decisions. But 4 billion in resource supplements for elderly care, free resources in the sense that you can use them in the way best suited to elderly care, is quite unique. I think we should make sure that we bring it home so that the Old Care Lift is actually used, that it is not just a budget line but becomes a reality. The fact that perhaps 20 000 women and men are given the opportunity to train as a nurse and assistant is great. Of course, more will have to be done.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-360	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Social Affairs spoke earlier about the dominance of women, including in this House, on these issues. I don't know about the Minister of Social Affairs as well as I've been working in the care of the elderly. I have also worked in nursing homes in what was then called long-term care and made my shared tours in a social democraticly governed municipality. With that experience and not least with a grandmother who worked her whole life in care, I was very happy when the Alliance took the initiative for an older investigation. There would then be proposals for measures to promote the health and safety of the elderly and to improve quality. Unfortunately, the Alliance lost the 2014 election. Then what happened? Well, the following year the Social Democratic government closed down the older investigation. It was hoped that it would be followed by something else that would have meant that we now had some of the things on the ground that the Corona Commission has reason to point out that we do not have. But that was not the case. My question to the Minister for Social Affairs is now who considers the Minister for Social Affairs to be primarily responsible for Sweden's failure to protect our most ill and fragile elderly. And why was this investigation closed? That it was shut down and not replaced by anything else, even though Prime Minister Löfven promised it, what conclusions does the Minister of Social Affairs draw from it?
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-365	Madam President, I would like I just want to say that this is a budget debate. We can discuss completely different things. It is also possible to ask interpellations, so we can take a comprehensive discussion of what measures the bourgeois government took. I am thinking that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall will be happy to use her last minute to tell us what proposals she hopes for and what proposals she and the Moderates want to see when it comes to full-time, shared tours and permanent jobs. I have not experienced it as the issues where the Moderates have really led the way. I have not seen it as something that has characterised them, nor in the speech that Camilla Grönvall made here just now. These are issues that the Association of Local and Regional Workers has been pushing for a very long time. Many different efforts are being made. During the last term of office, when Sweden's Municipalities and Regions were social democratic, they finally got into collective agreements to hire people only in full-time positions. I think it is a step along the way, but that development is far too slow. It has now come up in two parts of the line that there are only women in the debate. I've pointed it out before. I think it is significant, and I think we should all reflect on it. I do not think it will get any worse at all, but I am quite sure that it is not just about the political will to improve the care of the elderly. There are structures in our society where we think some issues are worth more than others and that some activities are worth more than others. I am absolutely convinced that this is the case, among other things, for elderly care. If general state subsidies have increased, both now and under previous governments, what else is the answer to why they have not gone to what everyone so clearly thinks they should be used for, namely elderly care so that it is better for the elderly who need it, for those who work there and for their relatives?
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-370	Madam President, I would like At least that is something that I and the Minister for Social Affairs agree on, and that is that the debate will not get any worse if it is conducted by women. Moreover, I note that the Minister of Social Affairs continues to devote herself to what she has known herself for in recent months, namely to blame and not to take responsibility. I think it is time to take responsibility in this very special situation. If the Minister of Social Affairs wants to discuss money, I can say that there is SEK 600 million more per year on socially vulnerable children in the Moderate budget. There is more than SEK 1 billion more in healthcare, SEK 80 million more in child cancer care and SEK 600 million more in cancer care. So it is true that we Moderates are giving priority to this area of expenditure.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-374	Madam President, I would like The elderly care lift is a measure that has been taken. It is a way to take responsibility – to take action and to do so during the pandemic. That is an example. Now the question from Camilla Waltersson Grönvall was not about the whole area of expenditure in the first shift, but about elderly care. My response was that if you now think it is so important, should it not be seen in the draft budget that you are making a big effort, that you want system changes and structural changes? I think it would help if we could discuss this issue in the future on the basis that it is complex. Camilla Waltersson Grönvall! I'm not saying I don't have responsibilities. I'm not saying the government has no responsibility. But it will be completely impossible to improve care for the elderly if we ignore the fact that 290 municipalities are employers, are those who negotiate the terms and are the ones who decide how many training efforts are to take place. Don't ignore it!
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-378	Madam President, I would like A little more than a year ago, I asked Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren here in Parliament what measures the government intended to take to ensure that people who are mentally ill would have somewhere to turn. This is due to the closure of the national support telephone line. Now I stand here again and wish answers to where all those who are mentally ill should turn – people who are in involuntary isolation and people who are no longer able to live in loneliness. There is no vaccine against loneliness, suicidal thoughts or mental illness. Talking to someone, on the other hand, can save lives. The increased pressure on non-profit support phones means too many unanswered calls. During the month of April, one of the support telephone lines working suicide prevention received about 27 000 calls. Of these, only 4,000 could be answered. And a lot of evidence suggests that this is a situation that may escalate. Once again, Madam President, I would like to hear why the government is not speeding up the process and ensuring that Sweden has a nationwide national support telephone business that can really make a difference to people.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-383	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Aranda – once again, may I say – for the question. In this budget bill, we have announced a continued strengthening of efforts in the areas of mental illness and suicide prevention. It comprises SEK 2.2 billion. That is more than twice as much as it was five years ago, so it has gradually been scaled up. This is an agreement that the state has with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions. We have this because it is an incredibly important issue to equip primary care around the country so that you can easily meet someone and get help and support when you feel mentally ill. It is also about specialist care, child and youth psychiatry and adult psychiatry. We have also had support – it has been there for a long time, but it has increased during the pandemic – to civil society and to those organisations that work suicide prevention and which, among other things, fulfil the role that Clara Aranda points to. My intention is not that it should be understood as that they should do this rather than that the public – healthcare – should do so. However, they testify that they have much to do and that this is a well - attended line. These are important calls they have to take. I cannot help but say that it is not the case that there has been a national support telephone that the government, the parliament or the Social Affairs Committee have in any way decided to close down, but that this region has been organised between them in the past. They're the ones with the staff. It's also those who need to be able to make sure that the caller doesn't just get a call- when a person makes that call someone has to take care of the result. Anyone who calls the support phone and feels very bad can not only get a call that then ends but must be guided further in the care. It is therefore an important task for healthcare to ensure that it is available.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-388	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In a year, it is actually about 1,600 people who take their lives, and now another year has passed. During the covid-19 pandemic, the number of calls to these non-profit organisations has increased, as I pointed out earlier. It's increased very strongly. Something else is needed. The Government's mission to the Public Health Agency, which is about the agency to respond to if people with mental illness and suicidal tendencies need a national support line, feels, to say the least, reality from averted. We need a national support line. We should have needed it already. Therefore, I hope that the government will assume its responsibilities and speed up this process.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-391	Madam President, I would like I know we have discussed this issue. If it was only in the budget debate or if we have also had an interpellation debate, I do not remember, but I agree with Clara Aranda that a great deal of support is needed for the person who is feeling ill and who goes with suicidal thoughts. Clara Aranda described earlier how many actually pursue a suicide each year. What we now know is that the number has not increased during the pandemic, but there is a great risk that it is a matter of backwardness – many experts describe this. This is very urgent. Nevertheless, I would like to say to the Members of Parliament that it is not as easy to have a support phone that someone other than the health service itself should staff. It is of course qualified staff who should be in a support phone like this, and the whole thing should be connected to the care. It should be connected so that the caller who needs further support, care or treatment should receive it. This is not supposed to be an alternative that lies by the side, but it must be part of the care. I promise I will take this issue further, but it is an issue that needs to be linked to other care.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-395	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by greeting the House from the President. Because of mild but cold symptoms, the President is staying at home today and, as second Vice-President, I shall therefore give today's closing speech in plenary. We have reached the half-time of the term of office, and a special and often heavy year is coming to an end. Despite the fact that the houses on Helgeandsholmen echo more than legally empty and that the meeting tables are replaced with the kitchen tables or desks at home, we work on. Parliament fulfills its task in our democratic society. It's good, and it's safe. On behalf of the President and the entire Bureau of Presidents, I would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your work in Parliament during this demanding autumn. We would also like to thank the group leaders and members of the Riksdag Board for their excellent cooperation. There have been many different issues to deal with, and both the President and we Vice-Presidents are pleased with the open and constructive talks that we have had in this circle. Of course, we in the Presidium of Speakers would also like to extend warm thanks to the Director of Parliament and all members of Parliament's administration. You have done a very fine job on the challenges that have fallen on your lot during this difficult time. Questions about Parliament's IT support, not least the prerequisites for conducting digital meetings, have been discussed much during the autumn. Parliament's administration is now taking an interest in these issues. It has already resulted in concrete measures, and more are coming. Despite the pandemic, Parliament's international commitment is as strong as ever, although contacts may mainly be made digitally. A fine example of this commitment is the parliamentary democracy cooperation with the Northern Macedonian Parliament. It has now begun, and gender equality and the importance of opposition are important issues. From our side, the cooperation is led by a steering group with representatives from all parliamentary parties led by myself and the third vice-president. Speaking of democracy, I would also like to mention the parliamentary democracy anniversary, which began in 2018. Now the centenary is approaching its main year 2021, when we note that it has been a hundred years since the first parliamentary elections with universal and equal voting rights were held. In the future, you will receive information about all kinds of activities planned during the year. It's really something to look forward to, I promise. I would also like to tell you that other activities within the framework of the anniversary are going on, although they can of course be done digitally now. It is still fun to meet people in this way and talk about democracy, for example at the digital book fair and during our digital county visits. During these visits we always meet school classes. Digitally meeting school classes is something we in the Presidium of Presidents would be happy to do outside the county visits, and I would like to say that there will be exciting talks on important issues. The young people we meet really give hope for the future. Another issue that gives hope is our work on gender equality. Together with the first Vice-President and the Parliamentary Working Group on Gender Equality, I am involved in this work. Ladies and gentlemen! I am talking about hope, and it is important to think also of what is positive in this dark time. We are now all facing a very different Christmas celebration, many times without the closeness that we usually associate with Christmas – a Christmas celebration where the loneliness of many becomes more evident than usual. So it is so important that we do everything we can to care for each other anyway and in the ways we can. We'll hold on and hold on. We work together here in Parliament, in our families, among friends and among our neighbours. With those words, I would like to wish all of you, fellow Members of Parliament, a truly Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. Take care of yourselves and take care of each other!
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-408	Madam President, I would like This time, the Parliament's thanks go digitally via me as the age president to our Speaker Andreas Norlén. He is now following us from home, as he should be, because he is dirty. This year the Parliament has to a large extent been forced to become digital. We Members of Parliament would like to thank the President-in-Office and the President. Being a guarantor of the Riksdag and ultimately of democracy is a heavy task, and we thank you for a well-executed mission and for the firmness of Sweden's democracy. In my Christmas greeting to Mr President and the Presidium of Presidents, apart from wishing Merry Christmas and Happy New Year, I would also like to say that it is darkest before dawn. And it's coming.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-411	Madam President, I would like Ann-Christine From Utterstedt has asked me if I think there has been a lack of a strategy for the elderly in the country's retirement homes. She has also asked whether I believe that the regions alone should be held responsible for the failure to protect our most fragile in the country's retirement homes and how I will act to ensure that our elderly are also given the individual medical assessment to which they are entitled. Finally, Ann-Christine From Utterstedt has asked how I intend to remedy the major deficiencies that have been detected during the spread of the pandemic in the care of the elderly and whether the government believes that there are systemic errors that need to be corrected in the care of the elderly. The overall aim of the Swedish strategy is to limit the spread of infection in society in order to protect people's lives. A number of measures have also been taken to this end at national, regional and local level. The Swedish people have taken a great responsibility, but we have nevertheless seen a widespread spread of infection in society, also within elderly care. On 15 December 2020, the Government received the Corona Commission's first interim report on its mission regarding care and care for the elderly. I look forward today to discussing the conclusions of the Corona Commission and to telling you more about the government's work ahead.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-414	Madam President, I would like In some of my previous debates with the Minister of Social Affairs on the failure of the elderly and, by the way, the government, she has constantly referred to her wanting to await the results of the various reviews before she in any way draws any conclusions or acknowledges the failure of the government. In the meantime, Hallengren has blamed the shortcomings of the regions. According to the Minister for Social Affairs, it is only their lack of emergency preparedness that has caused the disease to spread so uncontrollably among many of the country's retirement homes. Madam President, I would like It is not good enough, as a leading party in this country, to constantly shift all responsibility to someone else. If it is not for the regions to take full responsibility, it is for the municipalities, and if it is not for the municipalities, it is for the authorities. It is not good enough, as Sweden's Minister for Social Affairs, to take full responsibility for the proper functioning of the health care and care of the citizens. It is not good enough for people in a welfare country like ours to die because they have not received the care they are entitled to. Madam President, I would like It is now high time for the government and the Minister of Social Affairs to take responsibility for the country's health and care failure and to remedy this. IVO's review of elderly care during the pandemic has been presented. The first interim report by the Corona Commission has finally arrived, and the verdict was as expected brutal. It's there in black and white and there's no way to refine. As I said, the result is brutal. The reviews show that elderly care in Sweden has major shortcomings. Older people have died because they have not received the care they have been entitled to. The elderly have not received the individual assessment to which they are also entitled, according to the Health Care Act. Hallengren has wanted to wait for the results of the audits before giving her opinion. The day of the social affairs minister's responsibility is finally here. Madam President, I would like Today, I demand answers from the Minister of Social Affairs. What steps will the Minister of Social Affairs take to ensure that care and care work for our elderly so that they are not forced to die from us prematurely?
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-420	Madam President, I would like I understand that Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt asks every time how the government will ensure that the spread of infection is reduced, for the Swedish democrats certainly have no answers. Otherwise, it would have been interesting to be able to take part of them, at least on an occasional occasion. Ann-Christine From Utterstedt refers to IVO's report. I think that's reasonable. It's thorough. It does not review all elderly care, but it has gone through all the special accommodations. Deficiencies have been found in more than 90 of these. They have been taken forward, and 20 percent have found serious shortcomings, not least because of the fact that older people have not received an individual assessment. What the consequences of this have been, one cannot know, says IVO itself, but it is of course very serious. Ann-Christine From Utterstedt himself describes that the elderly have the right to an individual assessment, according to the Health Act, if I understood it correctly. If it is the case that older people in special housing have this right according to the law, in what way is it to blame – to think, just like the Inspection for Health Care, that the regions, which are heads of health care, should ensure that the elderly receive it? It should not matter if you are older and need care and live in a special accommodation, if you have home care, if you are younger or if you live in one place or another in the country. It is like we should suddenly ignore the fact that older people in a particular housing community have the same right to healthcare as everyone else. We have a health team. Ann-Christine From Utterstedt is welcome to talk about what change she wants to see in the Health Care Act to make it even clearer. What is, however, very obvious and which I think is important in the future is: To take responsibility is to act. I would say that the government acted in the spring. We appointed the National Board of Health and Welfare as a national purchasing center, a task they did not have. We introduced a national restraining order. We introduced an old-age care lift; there has been no interim report from the Corona Commission in that case. Nor does it have that when it comes to proposing in the budget large additions to care for the elderly. Nor have we been waiting for studies on permanent care and protected professional title, but it is work that is under way. I can welcome Ann-Christine From Utterstedt that it will come to Parliament in the spring. I understand that Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt, the Swedish Democrats and the opposition all the time and in every context want to make it sound like I'm blaming myself. I realize that this is a strategy – I understand – but I think it will be very difficult for all of us to improve Swedish elderly care or health care if we pretend that we do not have municipalities or regions that have responsibilities. However, I would like to end with the following, which no one should mistake: If we are to make structural changes throughout Sweden that are sustainable over time, not every municipality can be expected to understand how to act. Instead, we must make use of older care legislation, the budgetary instrument and the provision of skills through, for example, the Elderly Care Lift. These are measures that will really be needed, and I hope for broad support in the Swedish Parliament.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-428	Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats have already pointed out serious shortcomings before the pandemic. This applies, for example, to the confusion of languages in the care of the elderly, which, unfortunately, is often used at the local level as an integration measure. What was not allowed to happen happened last spring: The infection got into our retirement homes at an early stage. Of course, the government has acted – absolutely – but often it has acted too late. The measures taken, such as the restraining order, were introduced only after we had had a hundred deaths in retirement homes. So it was too late. In addition, after some time it was found that it was not actually the relatives who spread the infection but that it was mainly the staff. The restraining order was therefore not effective. The restraining order meant that many of our older ones died alone. They were abandoned and alone. It hurts very much in the heart to say that it is so. There is a big and important difference between the Minister for Social Affairs and me and between the Social Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. Because we don't run the country, but you do, Lena Hallengren. From our side we have had a lot of ideas and thoughts. The Minister for Social Affairs believes that we do not, but I say that it is exactly the opposite. For years we have been proposing, for example, the introduction of a new care law for the elderly. We have proposed the introduction of a special senior minister. We think that the health sector is so large that a minister for the whole area is not enough, but that, in order to improve for our elderly, a special minister for the elderly is needed. These are some of the proposals we have. The recommendations and guidelines introduced at the beginning of the pandemic were aimed solely at health care, and the initial safety investigation was allocated exclusively to health care. Care for the elderly and nursing homes was set aside. It was even said that there was no need for protective equipment, for some inscrutable reason. The Minister is happy to give a clear answer to the question as to what made it felt that there was no need for protective equipment in the care sector when the infection spread completely out of control. In order to prevent the spread of the infection in retirement homes, extraordinary measures would have been needed, and those measures did not exist. Because those measures failed, many older ones have had to pay for their lives. So it was not enough that the National Board of Health and Welfare tried to teach much of the staff basic basic basic hygiene. In clear terms, it means washing your hands. In any case, I would like to take up and thank all the competent staff who work in the care of the elderly and who have drawn an extremely large load during the pandemic. They have worked at risk for their own health, and as the infection spreads again – even worse during this second wave, it seems – it makes me very worried. How will the staff be able to cope?
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-436	Madam President, I would like It is still a very sprawling criticism from Ann-Christine From Utterstedt and the Swedish Democrats, I can say. If the Swedish Democrats, God forbid, had ruled – what would the Swedish Democrats have done? I think that is a relevant question to ask. Perhaps an elder minister would have made a difference in the midst of the crisis, but I am very hesitant about that. I'll develop why later. The Swedish Democrats say that extraordinary measures should have been taken. In fact, I think that we can expect from all the parties in Parliament that there are a number of proposals for measures that should have been made, not least from those who ask for an interpellation debate. I do not think we should be content with the statement that, in the midst of the greatest crisis in modern times, we should have done more – unclear what. I remember the debates that Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt had here during a burning pandemic. I know that we shared the concerns, the fears and the concern both for the elderly and for the staff. We talked about how difficult the situation was and how all the different actors in society really joined up – and I mean everyone. I felt that there were eight parties that stood up very clearly and said: Now we are going to lean on science and knowledge, and we are going to take the right action at the right time. It was possibly an action that stuck out. Ann-Christine From Utterstedt may correct me if I am wrong, but the Swedish Democrats probably thought we should have closed the schools. That's really the only difference, and that's what might have stuck out. I may have said this in a debate then, and I would like to say now that I believe it is death that will set the deepest tracks. I mean not only that people have died, but the fact that relatives have not been allowed to sit by their side. It is not just a matter of care for the elderly, but also of health care. Despite the availability of protective equipment, it was incredibly restrictive; people from outside were not wanted to be brought in. Today you can say that you don't think it was the visits, but that's not how we experienced the situation at the time. We took it safe for the insecure. I would like to take this opportunity to say, and to be recorded in the Minutes, that the Government had a meeting and a dialogue with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions on 13 March. At the time they felt that a national restraining order was not needed, but that a very sharp recommendation and advice were needed. The municipalities also came to have in health care and care, immediately. That's what happened around the country. So I think it is wrong to say that nothing happened before the national restraining order was in place. It was the other way around. Maintaining the advice, on the other hand, was difficult, so a national restraining order was needed. Since I think there is every reason to reflect a little bit on this matter with an elder minister, I would like to say that I think it is unfortunate when activities are divided up in the way that may have happened many times. We are talking about health care, and we are talking about care for the elderly. I think that the pandemic may show even more clearly the need for these to be seen together and that it is not so interesting whether it is the municipality or the region. There may also be much to be gained by not feeling that you are setting priorities in between but that you can ensure, both at the highest political level and in the activities, to start from the individual – who is rather uninterested in who offers what. However, I am very pleased that Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt is also in favour of older care legislation. I see, of course, that this is being investigated, that we get a very good proposal and that it gets broad support in the Swedish Parliament. I look forward to dialogue there.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-444	Madam President, I would like With regard to care for the elderly and the division, I agree with the Minister for Social Affairs that it is too divided and that we do not see this together. I'm saying the main crew needs to be reviewed here. This is at the root of noble reform, and it simply needs to be redone. It's not working today. I still think that the government put measures in place too late. Like the Corona Commission, we can see that it is the government that rules the country – point. There is no blame on regions and municipalities. Of course they have a responsibility, but the government has overall responsibility for the whole country. That is the case; it is not possible to belittle. If you don't take that responsibility, that means the government has to resign. You can't sit in a government position without being prepared to actually run the country and do it for real. The security of citizens must go first. It can never be accepted that the government lets people lie alone and die. Measures must be taken, and they must be put in place quickly. That is why I wonder: why did the government, with the Minister for Social Affairs at the head, choose to wait for the Commission's first interim report before it was prepared to take further action? Unfortunately, the conclusions presented by the Commission do not come as a surprise. I'm sure they're not a surprise to the Minister of Social Affairs either. So the government could have gone in earlier with the measures it now wants to see.
i-0590c5c19c0f0bde-448	Madam President, I would like I still do not hear any proposals for action or what to do differently. It is very welcome when a political party expresses its views and not just says that more should be done, unclear what. That would be very valuable for the debate here, I think, and of course also for the future discussion. The Corona Commission is quite right, of course, that the government is in charge of the country. However, I assume that Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt is also aware of and agrees that the government has no opportunity or legal space to take over all activities around the country when one feels that one is experiencing a shortage. The government has a responsibility to ensure that we have the necessary tools, and they are not obtained in the midst of a burning pandemic. I think we need to carefully consider what tools we want to exist. We will return to the care of our special accommodations. I think it is important that we take note of the Health and Welfare Inspection report. It will be an important part of the elderly care investigation that we set up. We do this not only to look at how to ensure the quality of care for the elderly in general, but a specific assignment will be about the medical competence of our particular accommodations. I do not think that either Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt or anyone else wants to go back to where we were before the noble reform. I think we need to be very careful to resist there, because we do not want our elderly people to live in health institutions. We want them to have a life and a daily life with their own housing and the possibility of social intercourse, but of course with access to the medical skills that are necessary given that some have a great need for care – not all, for some have a dementia and live there for many years. We must ensure that this is guaranteed in an even better way. We have a health law that says that everyone has the right to care according to their needs. It doesn't matter whether you live in a particular accommodation or not. We will do everything we can to ensure that this legislation is also complied with.
