i-31b32499a66e5410-1	Madam President, I would like Right now, many are fighting for their lives because they have been infected with the Corona virus. And we in here are thinking especially of them. Others have become ill, but the disease has not hit their bodies so hard. They have isolated themselves at home and are waiting to get well. Many people are currently working to do everything they can to prevent the infection. Many care for the sick: nurses, nurses, doctors and ambulance drivers around Sweden. Many more people are working in the front line to do everything they can to make things easier for those who have now become ill. We are all affected by the crisis in different ways, Madam President. But one thing is clear, namely that it is a serious time, and it is likely to get worse before it gets better. But I am convinced that we can do this together. Madam President, I would like This is, first and foremost, a human crisis, and the most important thing right now is, of course, to reduce the spread of infection. That's where we all do our part. But it is also a time when the sick will receive the care they need. But the infection also has a major impact on the economy. The consequences of the Corona virus are hitting many companies with full force. The proceeds disappear and the carpet is pulled away. That is why we in the Swedish Parliament need to do everything we can to save as many Swedish jobs and companies as possible. I say it again: the decisions we make today and the next few days and weeks will affect the whole 20th century. We are currently working quickly in Parliament, Madam President. The bill that may normally take a month to go through took only a week and now only a few days. At the same time, there are many outside the house who would like to see it go even faster. I think about all the people who lost their job. I am thinking of taxi drivers, café owners, hotel owners and many more entrepreneurs who see their revenues fall by 90 to 95%. I am thinking of those family businesses which, after several generations, are now in danger of going bankrupt any day now. The stories are countless, and it is night black in many places. Madam President, I would like We have made many important decisions in the last few days to save jobs and businesses. Together, we in Parliament have acted for the best interests of Sweden. But more will be needed. Today we are going to decide on a reduction in employers' contributions for companies. That is a good thing, and I am pleased that the government and the support parties have partly met the Moderates because this means direct aid to Sweden's companies. It's a good start, but it could have been even better. I am convinced that this is not enough at the moment. Madam President, I would like In the follow-up motion that we have put on Parliament's table, we Moderates are calling for employers' contributions to be temporarily abolished. Now is not the time for doubt. Now is not the time for caution. The crisis is happening right now. Bankruptcies stand like rods on the slopes. Thousands of people are losing their jobs. Just last week, 18,000 people were given notice. It is now that we can save jobs and prevent mass unemployment and prevent a deep recession when the crisis is over. The Minister for Finance is reluctant to do more at the moment. She believes that resources are needed to stimulate the economy in the next step. The crisis can be as long as a Vasaloppet. Then you also need energy from Eldris and into the finish. The last mile, she says. I share the view of the Minister for Finance that when the acute crisis is over, resources are needed to restart the economy. But the question is which economy to restart. Should it be a Swedish economy where several industries have almost disappeared, an economy with mass unemployment? It will be so much more expensive both on a human level and on an economic level than we are now doing everything we can. I also find it difficult to see that the crisis that many companies and people are experiencing now can be compared to a Vasaloppet with fine tracks. No, what's happening right now, when we're here, is that many people feel they're standing on a couple of skis at a very, very steep downhill, at a terrible speed, and they're worried about the cliff at the end of the hill. And it is our job, in here, to prevent that disaster – to make sure that the hill does not get too steep without being given the opportunity to stop. One way to alleviate the crisis is to save jobs and businesses through more direct support. There we are, my friends. Here the proposals of the Moderates and the Government differ considerably. With the government's proposal, medium-sized enterprises together receive only a few percent of employers' contributions. With the Moderates' proposal, they get back the entire employer's fee. With the government's proposal, no companies, not even the really small ones, get back more than two thirds of employers' contributions. With the Moderates' proposal, they get back the entire employer's fee. This means that for an average small company, Moderate direct payments and injections are twice as large. For a medium-sized company – Madam President, many medium-sized enterprises are now facing enormous challenges – the proposal is ten or twenty times the size of the government's proposal. That would make a real difference. That would prevent more companies from now going towards the cliff. Madam President, I would like I am convinced that urgent action is needed in the emergency situation. There is now a need for an injection into the Swedish economy to the Swedish companies that are now struggling. We can prevent mass unemployment and deep recession if we do what is right now. That is why we Moderates propose in reservation 1 that the Riksdag should abolish employer's and self-contributions. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-31b32499a66e5410-18	Madam President, I would like It has recently been stated in this pulpit that the world, Europe and Sweden are facing great economic trials. A whole generation of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs are at risk of being knocked out. There will be bankruptcies, redundancies and reduced trade in unemployment and a sharp bnp rate as a result. We are now faced with both supply and demand shocks, while the medical solution is deemed to be in a dulled real economy. It is therefore a rare, serious and complex situation that we have to deal with. There is nothing new in this speaker's chair that we are moving towards worse times. The question that should be asked in this context is how cane-right things should actually go to hell. How does the government ensure that this recession does not develop into an economic Harmagedon? I believe that all the parties in this House agree that the state must be allowed to go deficit in order to finance strong measures. Sweden's public debt is low, public finances are satisfactory and the political conditions are in place for a more offensive strategy. The Swedish Democrats believe that 10–20 per cent of GDP is justified, which would also be more in line with other countries. The alternative cost is otherwise lower pensions, poorer care, mental illness, increased insecurity and a simply significantly lower standard of living for the population. The government has presented several stimulus packages to mitigate the effects of this crisis. What we have to consider today is the supplementary amending budget which proposes a temporary reduction in employers' contributions, the general salary levy and the own contribution. It is a step in the right direction that the government is taking, but our assessment is that we must go all the way. We cannot afford half-measures right now; it will punish itself in the long run. Of course, various measures have different conditions to be implemented with precision and speed, but what the Moderates propose in their motion is what the Swedish Democrats broadly advocated and presented in our particular opinion. That is also the next logical step in these extreme conditions. Policies must deliver strong measures that protect companies and their employees, as far as possible, from sudden loss of income, otherwise we are moving towards massive redundancies. We do ourselves a disservice when we save on gunpowder in times like these. The best time to save jobs is always yesterday. Therefore, employers', wage and social security contributions must be abolished completely for a limited period of time in order to create clear long-term rules that remove uncertainty for companies and give them room to deal with negative cash flows. In addition, this must include all employees, for what does it help West Sweden's largest private employer – who has now started to produce and produce medical supplies in the truck factory – to remove the charge from the 31st? What does it do for those who work at the band? Not at all if you're forced into mass layoffs. The measures must be as general as possible in order to fulfil their purpose as accurate crisis management, and for small businesses they must be simple and without administrative hassle. Madam President, I would like Much of what the SD has advocated before and after the beginning of the crisis, such as increased and increased unemployment, minimal interest on tax deferrals and at least a temporary reduction in employers' contributions, has proved to be measures on which there is broad political agreement. Now only remains to be seen whether policies can move towards a more offensive approach than at present. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-31b32499a66e5410-29	Madam President, I would like This is the fourth supplementary amending budget that we are discussing. A fifth has also arrived. The government has taken a number of other measures, and other decisions have been taken. It is important to say from the position of the Left Party opposition party in Parliament that the government's actions during the crisis have so far largely been swift, strong and reasonable. I can also be very proud that, on the whole, our country, our institutions and our citizens have been able to show some of their best and most admirable aspects during the extremely serious pandemic that has hit the whole world with full force. Enormous efforts are now being made, especially in health care, despite a tight starting position, especially here in Stockholm after years of understaffing and market experiments. Also in other welfare services, civil society and neighbourhoods, every day and every hour an invaluable work is done. Our country's open and democratic governance, including the Riksdag, must also stand the test of crisis. As far as Parliament is concerned, it has meant being able to deal with all the matters that need to be dealt with with with particular emphasis on the decisions that need to be taken directly in response to the crisis, not least the additional amending budgets that the government has submitted. My assessment is that it was essentially possible for both government and cooperation parties as well as opposition parties to act sensibly at this stage. This means both safeguarding the constitutional role of the reviewer of government power and bearing bearers of the differences of opinion expressed in general elections in the population, while acting constructively and putting immediate party political scoring aside. For our part, this has meant making proposals to solve societal problems and working together to improve the content of the decisions taken by the Riksdag. It has also produced clear results on several occasions, such as the agreement of the Committee on Finance on limitations on dividends and bonuses in connection with the receipt of State aid. It has also meant that we have accepted things that we would have liked in other circumstances to screw on or partially reject. Madam President, I would like The economic policy measures decided by the Parliament in these special circumstances are of the nature and, above all, of the magnitude that they will shape our country, our economy and our labour market for a long time to come. For the Left Party, it is crucial that what is being implemented actually has the effects with which the measures are justified – and that support and burdens are distributed fairly. It is our duty to thus guard the interests of ordinary people at this time. Unfortunately, in the supplementary amending budget that we are debating today, there is a large and costly proposal that we in the Left Party cannot support for those reasons. This concerns the substantial overall reduction in labour costs and the general wage contribution proposed. I would like to stress, before explaining in detail, that the other proposals here, which relate to the deferral of VAT for small businesses and the possibility of significantly increasing the provision for the accrual fund, are measures that we support at the present time. Madam President, I would like Making sweeping reductions in employers' contributions is a measure that has been tested in several ways in relative proximity and which has proven to be documented inefficient. I know that the government's cooperation parties in particular have had huge hopes for this kind of action. But that is not a good enough reason to use nearly $30 billion in this way. I think it is important for the public to see what this is about. In practice, therefore, it is a very large transfer of money to all companies with employees. Unlike, for example, the system of short-term lay-offs, it is not linked to the requirement that employees remain. It is not aid linked to any kind of conversion requirement. Nor is it a transfer that goes to companies whose activities are particularly affected by this crisis. Many companies in some sectors have rather increased demand in some places, but they too will receive this support from tax funds. As I pointed out at the outset, the Left Party has so far supported all the measures put forward by the government. We consider it absolutely essential that, in this situation, the state takes responsibility for helping also industries and companies to survive. It is about know-how that has been built up, about investments made and about employment that can otherwise disappear unnecessarily and make us all poorer as a society. It is also a series of subsidies that have been produced at record speed for companies. It's about the responsibility of sick pay, which the state takes on, which is excellent. It is about short-term lay-off, as I mentioned, where the state intervenes and takes part of the bill. There are several types of credit, guarantees and deferrals in the multi-billion-dollar class. That's good! We have voted in favour of them. I will also say that we do not rule out any further support for companies if necessary. But then it must be a question of proposals where the effects can be assumed to be proportionate to the cost. So to the question of priorities and balance of composition. It is clear that lots of people who are not in the direct target group for credit and support to business owners are in great need of different types of help that are closer to their private economies and everyday concerns. The government has put forward proposals for improvements in the unemployment fund, very much in line with the demands presented by the Left Party. It is very welcome and very important. Yesterday, the government presented proposals for more money for the local government sector. It is self-evident and good, but it is also quite far from what is needed. The Institute of Economics estimates that increased support of the order of 20 billion is needed to maintain the levels for 2019 – and then we know what a tedious reality that meant for employees in welfare even before the Corona crisis. Madam President, I would like However, there must be some order in times of crisis. The social and class balance in emergency solutions and incentives cannot be as distorted as it risks further becoming with this broad-minded transfer in the 25–30 billion class to corporate owners. This money could have been more useful if, for example, it were targeted on a sectoral basis. There are always problems with boundaries, but these can be done both in life in general and in crisis policy in particular. They would also have done more to increase long-term employment in the welfare sector, which would have been necessary even without the harsh experience of a pandemic, but is now becoming increasingly urgent. We in the Left Party would still have been able to discuss solutions that still included reduced social security contributions and social security contributions in some form – if there was something that immediately weighed up on the other side. One could imagine – without for that reason I should stand and negotiate in the speaker's chair – a system in which these changes are made but clearly linked to decisions on simultaneous or subsequent adjustments on the revenue side. We could call that funding, say, military tax. Or we would finally make the necessary adjustments to the totally unreasonably low capital taxes in Sweden. This is about keeping together as a society, and then we must also bear burdens and risks of some solidarity, according to our abilities and needs. All those who are supporting society with their toil today, who are putting themselves at risk of having to, and who have been overlooked for too long, cannot also be sitting on the bill for rescue packages and incentives. All in all, Madam President, the Left Party is therefore rejecting the Government's proposal in the form it is now on the table of the Parliament, which is concerned with precisely reducing social security contributions. This means that I am in favour of the Left Party's reservation No 2.
i-31b32499a66e5410-47	Madam President, I would like Sweden is in a difficult, serious situation. There are many of us who are close to being affected in one way or another by the epidemic. The world is in a difficult position. We can now hear increasingly clear reports on how people are also affected in a very powerful and tangible way in low-income countries. This will affect our world for a long time to come. We look with gratitude at all those who make great efforts in these times – those who work in health care and care for the elderly, those who are ambulance drivers and those who work in the public administration to ensure that everything can work in the best possible way in this difficult situation. We want to do what we can to make things easier for these people. We also see that the Corona crisis is not taking a break from the economy. Every morning we are updated about new companies that announce staff, lay off fixed-term employees and adapt their costumes to a demand crash that has not been seen in modern history and that affects production capacity very significantly. In March alone, 36,800 persons were given notice, eleven times more than a regular month of March. The figures for April have not been given, but we know that we cannot expect any good statistics there either. The Government's proposal in the proposal we are discussing today and the report produced by the Committee on Finance will hopefully make things easier and allow more people to keep their jobs. But Sweden is in a particularly troublesome situation right now, which requires measures that are proportionate to this deep recession. I believe that there is a great danger in waiting or in hesitation when it comes to screwing measures up to the level that is now required. I think I hear a rhetoric – I hope it is above all rhetoric – that we now have to save and retain resources to restart the economy in due course. There is a great risk that there is not much to restart unless we take more vigorous measures to save businesses and jobs and ensure that we do not suffer mass unemployment, which we know creates exclusion and ill-health that follows people for a long time. This is very important to try to avoid now. There are proposals in the bill that are very good. We are talking about the strengthening of the accrual fund and the suspension of VAT payments. These are good proposals that can offer relief for self-employed workers. However, the emphasis is on reducing employers' contributions for businesses and reducing self-employed workers' social security contributions. It is, of course, welcome at this point in time that staff costs are reduced and that measures are put in place that can partially supplement the proposal for lay-off support. However, there are also clear problems with the delimitation, which I think the government should return to and adjust as soon as possible. It is about the limitation of 30 employees and how it is made. This economic crisis, as we know it, is relatively broad but also has a very concentrated effect in some sectors. This applies, for example, to hotels and restaurants, tourism and many smaller retail companies, where the customer base has largely disappeared due to restrictions and requests from authorities. Many of these companies also have no e-commerce to compensate for or mitigate the loss of demand. That is why, according to the Christian Democrats, it is particularly important that the measures taken clearly meet those groups and entrepreneurs who are experiencing particular difficulties and that the limitations of the design do not make it impossible for these companies to benefit from the support. The design chosen by the government risks becoming both partly too broad and partly too narrow at the organisational level. I'll try to explain why. In the restaurant industry, for example, companies have chosen different models to organize themselves. It can be with one and the same company registration number or with a franchise model with independent companies. Max burgers, for example, which employ a great many people in Sweden, are organised under the same company number, while McDonalds is mostly organised via franchises with their own companies. According to the Government's proposal, this would mean that Max could receive a reduction in the employer's contribution for a total of 30 of his thousands of employees while McDonald's could receive a reduction in the employer's contribution for up to 30 employees per franchise. Apart from the fact that this is a rather strange effect, where you get wrong, it also means a severe distortion of competition that you, if possible, should try to avoid. Max has 6,000 employees, an average of 39 employees per restaurant. However, since they are all part of the same company, only 30 of these 6 000 will be subject to the government's reduction in employers' contributions. That makes up about half a percent of Max's entire workforce. You can figure out how this hits McDonald's – in a completely different way, with a completely different cost-relief. At the same time, the reduction in employers' contributions is relatively blunt in this situation. Retailers are also covered, who do not experience the same crisis as other industries, as well as banking and insurance. I understand that there is a balance here between speed and efficiency in the proposals; I have full respect for this. However, an alternative approach could be to select employers' contributions at sectoral level and make a greater reduction and also to include the old-age pension contribution in order to achieve greater accuracy in this situation. I think there is reason for the government to consider better concentrating the effort. In this way, aid can be directed more towards those sectors and sectors where the economic impact is greatest. Madam President, I would like However, I am afraid that this will not be enough. I believe that this situation is unique, and I see, as I began by saying, great risks in that the government is not doing enough now. I believe that the single most important measure is to significantly increase the level of lay-off aid. It's accurate, and it's obvious it's needed. Several industries and many companies now have a demand drop and a revenue drop that is far greater than 60 per cent – up to 90 – 95 per cent – of their revenues. In this situation, to combat mass unemployment and the death of businesses, short-term lay-offs must be strengthened. We need to change the rules on this so that companies are not forced to lay off temporary workers, who are already at risk in the labour market, in order to benefit from lay-off aid. Madam President, I would like We have a very difficult and serious situation. The government has taken many measures that have been good and balanced, but we now have a great need to do more and do the right thing and to ensure that the measures that we are implementing meet and do what they are supposed to, namely to save as many jobs and businesses as possible. Then I think that there is a great deal of urgency and that there is now a great danger in waiting for further and more comprehensive measures. I support Amendment No 3 by the Christian Democrats.
i-31b32499a66e5410-62	Madam President, I would like The world and Sweden are in a very difficult and vulnerable position. Of course, the spread of the Corona virus and the increase in the number of people affected worry us all. However, although the impact on life and health is now very serious and at the heart of what we are all considering, the economic crisis is now hitting individuals, companies and public services with full force. Therefore, many and strong measures are needed to include all the actors and activities currently affected. There is also a great deal of effort now being made to strengthen all these important parts of our society. In recent weeks, the government and the cooperation parties have presented several large and comprehensive crisis packages to protect Swedish jobs, Swedish companies and Swedish welfare. Together, we have also been able to vote in this House on several of those proposals. I very much appreciate the joint responsibility and cooperation that we have been able to demonstrate in the Committee on Finance during this time. I also believe that this is exactly what our citizens expect from their political leaders at a difficult time. There is also reason to recall that this is a work in many different parts. First of all, money must not stand in the way of the health care system's efforts to prevent the spread of infection and to take care of those who fall ill. That is why we gave early warning that the state will be taking the extraordinary costs of health care that municipalities and regions will have during this difficult time. In addition, yesterday we presented an additional 15 billion on top of what has previously been announced to our municipalities and regions in order to secure well-being and other critical public services. The staff, who are now making so much effort in health care, school and care, are more important than ever. Therefore, the municipal sector must also have the resources to support teachers, nurses, nurses and doctors. Secondly, efforts are now needed to protect Swedish jobs and companies. That's exactly what we're going to do here today. With a substantial reduction in employers' and self-employed contributions for four months, we are removing costs for all companies, but the design will have the greatest impact on SMEs. This is an important measure to reduce the pressure on all those who have seen customers disappear and demand rapidly decline. Today, we are also strengthening the possibilities for individual traders and natural persons who are part-owners of partnerships to increase provisions for accrual funds. We also propose that the person who accounts for VAT, VAT, be granted a full-year period of grace, just as others have been given in the past. These are actions aimed above all at smaller companies and enable them to gain better liquidity in a difficult and strained situation. Already in the past we have presented strong efforts for jobs and companies. The state takes over the responsibility for sickness pay from employers. Yesterday we decided on a new system of short-term work, in which the state helps companies to retain employees by taking on most of the wage costs. In addition, we have decided on a business case to help and support small and medium-sized enterprises with loans where the state takes the large credit risk. We have also presented support for reduced rental costs for companies in particularly vulnerable sectors. Madam President, I would like Despite all this, we are facing a very difficult and tough situation. People will lose their jobs despite all the efforts. That is why we also increase security and improve the opportunities for change for those who lose their job or who have already lost their job. We do this by lowering the thresholds into unemployment insurance, so that even those with precarious employment and those who have not worked so many hours can get part of the insurance while we raise the compensation. Support for job conversion will also be reinforced. This is a serious situation and the forecasts for the future are very uncertain. We will continue to work to slow down the spread of infection and to ensure that the health care system has more resources. We will protect Swedish jobs and companies but also increase security for those who lose their jobs. But we're gonna get through this. Of course it is. There's a brighter tomorrow. Then we will take a strong push to get Sweden back on track. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-31b32499a66e5410-73	Madam President, I would like We are in a global crisis, where the spread of the oronavirus leads to major challenges. Of course, it is first and foremost a matter of life and health. Around the country, major efforts are now being made to prevent the spread of infection too quickly, to strengthen health care and to protect groups at risk. The economic impact is already evident. Society is economically affected at a rapid pace, and we need to respond to this with strong measures to support fundamentally viable Swedish companies that now have major problems. We must all help each other, and we will do this together. You can rest assured that we will do everything we can to ensure that Sweden gets through this crisis. The measures to be taken today follow a number of measures already adopted. We are now deciding on short-term lay-offs to reduce companies' wage costs. The government will lift the costs of sick pay. The possibility of liquidity enhancements is introduced through the tax account. We can see that the scope of these measures is historic. We can also see that further action will be needed. The focus right now is, of course, on ensuring life and health. But what we also work with, almost 24 hours a day, is what we decide today, i.e. to step by step secure the conditions for Swedish companies to continue their operations. It is about securing the Swedish economy and Swedish jobs. Madam President, I would like Today's additional amending budget now provides the conditions for further contributing to the strengthening of the liquidity of companies. At the moment we are, I know that the focus of many entrepreneurs is on managing day-to-day operations. Then we must do what we can to help strengthen liquidity. Among other things, the reduction in social security contributions is extremely important because it directly reduces business expenditure. It is in the field of energy that needs to be used at present to ensure the survival of the company. The scale of the tax cuts carried out so far is unprecedented in history. Unfortunately, we can see that much of the hard work is ahead of us. But with common forces, I am convinced that we will be able to do this. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-31b32499a66e5410-83	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by expressing my gratitude to all those who are at the forefront right now in this corona disaster – all those who save and protect lives and all those who care for our children and our most fragile people. But it is also about all of you who are working hard to save your businesses and thereby the future of Swedish prosperity. I also think that at this time we should give a thought to the finance ministers and governments that cleaned up Sweden after the economic crisis caused by the Swedish, home-made speculative economy and that hit Sweden with absolute force in the early 1990s. The regulatory framework then created means that today we have the opportunity to save the welfare and people's economy and also to support all the hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs who have been brutally affected in this anything but home-made pandemic. This means that today, with our fourth amending budget for 2020 – it is hardly the last – we can focus even more on entrepreneurship in Sweden and thus the future Swedish wealth creation. There are many difficult balances in this: What should be done and when? It was previously referred to the Vasalop metaphor. I have run Vasaloppet a few times and even once been exposed to the so-called rope. It's not funny, because then you can't go on. We must avoid that. We must have gunpowder in the barns, and there will be climbs all the way to the end. They're getting harder and harder, but we're gonna make it. We must have resources all the way, because it will last a long time. It cannot have escaped anyone who has listened to authorities and government representatives in recent days. There are also moral dilemmas. We have had a period of hugely growing property market values. We have had a decade of huge growth on our stock exchanges with huge increases in value, which has led to discussions on the widening gaps. The gaps have never increased as much as the last ten years. It can also be said that the gaps have never narrowed as much as in the last month. It's a huge effect, but I guess nobody wants what we're seeing right now. What I would like to do with this, Madam President, is to ensure that responsibility is shared between companies that are prepared to use all their resources to save their very viable activities, the state and other public authorities, municipalities and regions that are adding to what we can and individuals who are doing what they can to help in the crisis. We're in this together. There's no other way. It can well be said that the efforts that we have taken in the past, such as lay-off aid and rental aid with associated conditions, must be carefully examined. I would like to repeat the Prime Minister's reply and speech from Question Time here in the House yesterday, where he says: All the rules that are being introduced are we prepared to review: Was it good? Or do we need to adjust the rules in some way? ..................................................... That's the way it is. This won't take long. There is a balance between doing exactly the right thing and sitting and worrying and getting nothing in place. Therefore, we need to keep a close eye on, not least, the rent support for companies that are under severe pressure from high rent costs as a large part of their cost base and not get caught up in formalities about previously decided dividends for some odd preference shares, or whatever it may be. We must carefully observe that property owners in Sweden, often large companies with inflated balance sheets, meet Swedish companies in Swedish trade in this regard. We should remember that sooner or later we have to see corrections here. Rental levels in relation to company turnover are twice as high in Swedish trade as they are in the United States and the United Kingdom, which is of course unsustainable. We must ensure that we land softly in this regard, and this is an opportunity to do so. What we liberals hear in our dealings with companies out there is that some landlords understand this. They are already on the track and have facilitated and implemented the reductions. Others are more nervous and are waiting for the regulations. Some of them still refuse blankly. This is something that we must take on board and ensure that the whole aid comes out. The choice of landlord and depending on whether they have aggressively expanded and aggressively winded up their balance sheets with a huge leverage ratio cannot be decisive for whether or not businesses in the trade can survive today. I also think that we should look closely at the levels of lay-off. The same applies there, not least in trade where the business goes down in the basement and possibly closes to 10 per cent of previous turnover. What should a large number of people who work 40% do? It's very difficult. At a faster closure, these companies can survive and people can keep their jobs. Madam President, I would like The Liberals, of course, support the proposal in this report and this amending budget, which is aimed above all at smaller companies. I note, however, that unfortunately I do not believe that this is the last amending budget of the year. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-31b32499a66e5410-98	Madam President, I would like The crisis that we are in strikes like a storm against all parts of society. It is a health crisis and, of course, those who are directly affected by this are first and foremost in our thoughts. Many people's jobs and businesses are also at stake. Varslen is increasing at a record rate, and uncertainty for the future of many people is evident in the stomach pit. At the same time, we see that people are there for each other, not least to protect our groups at risk. The measures we take to reduce the spread of infection particularly hit smaller companies in Sweden. That is why today I am going to dwell on their very conditions and what we are doing to mitigate this for them. A strong and effective policy is needed which will allow as many companies as possible to survive this storm and to retain their employees as much as possible. Early on, a series of general measures were presented that could also affect smaller companies' ability to cope with the crisis, such as the government taking over sickness pay responsibility and the possibility of postponing tax payments. From March until 30 June, employers' contributions for all enterprises are reduced by up to 30 employees. It is a model for the reduction of employers' contributions, which quickly comes to companies and which takes effect retroactively from last month. We can pull it out over time for four months, and it is accurate because of course it will be of the greatest value to the smaller companies. This makes it a much more accurate and fast model than the one presented here by the Moderates, for example. For me, it is self-evident to focus on the smaller companies in this situation, not least because the sectors that are most affected are characterised by precisely smaller companies. We now also make it possible for companies that pay in and report their tax only once a year, i.e. companies that report VAT up to SEK 1 million, to be deferred on the tax like the others. The government is also developing a government loan guarantee for SMEs. It will allow more people to get loans. If you have the state in your back, you can also get better loans from the bank. A rental discount scheme is developed, where state and landlord share the cost, which can reduce the cost for companies. For self-employed people to cope with this crisis, targeted measures are needed for them. That is why we are taking some specific measures. Among other things, we make it easier to put a company dormant and at the same time take out unemployment insurance funds in the meantime. It is also worth mentioning that in times such as these, it is possible, with regular regulations, to reduce contributions to their student loan and to postpone or refrain from amortising their loans. It can also have a significant impact on the real economy of a smaller enterprise. We can also see that authorities are changing their activities. Municipalities and regions are doing everything they can to benefit local businesses in the country. Combating the pandemic has a direct impact on health, life and the economy. None of us know how long these restrictions have to be in place. No one knows how long it will take for our economy to recover. We all have to get used to the idea that it may take a long time. In parallel with these urgent efforts, we must also be able to raise our eyes and think ahead and start preparing ourselves for the work that is taking place after the acute crisis. Then more efforts will be needed to create sustainable conditions for our companies and to relaunch the Swedish economy. Sweden will continue to be a small business country. The services sector and tourism which are now under such great pressure are important building blocks in our economy. And social enterprises are making such incredibly important contributions to our society. The outside world will also present us with challenges. The efforts of smaller companies are crucial for us to build a robust economy forward. Madam President, I would like Looking out over Sweden, I see that a sustainable economy is about a good tradition of consensus and cooperation, a sense of duty and willingness to take in when needed. This means that we actually have the opportunity to get through this crisis together. I naturally support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-31b32499a66e5410-115	Madam President, I would like During the spring, each weekend is used for annual meetings and working days for general meetings of non-profit associations as well as housing associations or other companies where there is share capital. Usually these are very nice events where you meet old friends and new acquaintances, have a cup of coffee and perhaps a piece of cake. There will be lively discussions about what you think about different things. It may be whether the ceiling should be redeployed or whether an investment should be made by the company. But that's not exactly how it looks this spring. Mrs Corona has left her mark on this as well, as in many other areas. With regard to this measure, too, we have a total consensus in the Civil Committee and in the Swedish Parliament. I think this is a force for our country in such a time. The environmental party has, like other parties and many organisations, annual meetings, member meetings and others hits completely digitally or by telephone. We have rules that make this possible, but that is not the case for all associations, companies and cooperatives. It is problematic at this time, as there is no legal possibility to refrain from holding the Annual General Meeting or to postpone it until after the last day allowed. At the same time, the current situation is such that many shareholders or members find it difficult to participate in order to follow recommendations, for example because they belong to a risk group for covid-19 or because they cannot travel to the place where the meeting is to be held. Madam President, I would like The Government has therefore, in a very short time, presented a proposal that will enable more people to participate in the general meetings to be held. It is a proposal that has been approved by a unanimous civil committee and that will be decided by Parliament in a few moments' time. This new law is proposed to enter into force on 15 April 2020 and will expire by the end of 2020. So it's a temporary law. It makes it easier to participate without being present in person, so that risk groups or large groups of people do not physically have to meet in the same place. Under this Act, the Board of Directors of the Company or Association shall be able to decide to collect a proxy for a designated representative or to arrange a postal vote, even if the articles of association or statutes do not normally allow this. In economic associations, the Board of Directors shall also be able to decide whether to engage representatives to a greater extent than is provided for in the Statutes. These measures allow us to contribute to society's efforts against the ongoing spread of infection, rather than increasing the risk of covid-19 spreading even more. The new temporary law gives shareholders and members a chance to make their voices heard without risking their own or others' health. The proposals cover limited liability companies, economic associations, tenant-owner associations and financial market companies. This enables them to carry out the general meetings and annual meetings with as much transparency and democracy as possible in this situation. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report.
i-31b32499a66e5410-125	Madam President, I would like I think that many in this House – those who are here today and also those who may be following this debate on television right now – actually have their thoughts elsewhere, on all those who are affected by the Corona crisis, on all those who have relatives who are sick and on all the heroes of the healthcare system, in the care that is currently making incredible efforts to make it work. For good reason, large parts of society have stalled to limit the spread of the disease. But it is clear that one of the areas that has not stopped, despite the crisis, is crime, crime. Youth robberies are something that sets an extremely deep mark on many people. We asked for this debate several weeks ago, and I think it is justified to have it today. I hope that this will be an opportunity for the parties to put forward proposals on how to overcome the disgusting youth robberies.
i-31b32499a66e5410-128	Madam President, I would like The juvenile robberies that were observed a few months ago are, of course, atrocious crimes. We believe that society should look very harshly at crimes of this kind. There is no reason to put your fingers between them in any way in the fight against them. Victims must be able to feel that they have the whole of society in their backs and that this is a crime that we consider very seriously. They must, of course, have redress, and they must have compensation. But the most important thing, I think, for the vast majority of victims is to see that the crime can be cleared up and that their plagues of evils are judged and given a proper penalty. As far as the perpetrators are concerned, it appears to be a very limited group. Nevertheless, a robbery may well be a sign that one is entering a rather deep criminal career, and it must be interrupted by rapid and vigorous action on the part of society. In many ways we have better opportunities than in a long time to do just that. The major expansion of the police force, which we started in the last parliamentary term, is now starting to produce results. We tripled police training and started new courses in Borås and Malmö. We took steps to get more police officers to stay in the profession and to re-recruit the police officers who have left. Now we have more police employees than ever before in Sweden. And for every six months now we will see an increase in police capacity when a flood of new, young police officers leaves our colleges. That's good. However, in order to deal with the robberies, we also need to tighten up the sanctions that apply to the crime. That is why we will remove the penalty for young people when it comes to robbery. In the near future, we will be referring to a bill which will remove the penalty for young people in respect of crimes giving at least one year's imprisonment. It also includes robbery. The penalty is currently 50% for an 18-year-old, 33% for a 19-year-old and 25% for a 20-year-old. When the penalty for young people is removed, this means in practice that we double the penalty for an 18-year-old robber. But we are not only doing this; we are also going to look at the possibilities of arrest for the crimes committed by gang criminals. The punitive measures that we introduced in 2018 in the area of serious weapons offences have proved to be very successful. Anyone who goes out with an illegal weapon today is in danger of not returning home for at least two years, as they are now being detained pending trial. This has led to a sharp increase in the number of detainees. Those who used to run around with guns in the city are now largely locked up. We want to move on with this. We say in the government's 34-point program that the possibility of detention will be opened up to more crimes than gang crime, and we specifically state in the 34-point program serious assault, gross blackmail and also robbery. Finally, I would like to say that sometimes in the debate it has been claimed that when there are demeanors in the robberies, hate crime law cannot be used in hate crimes against Swedes. That is wrong, and I would therefore like to see such a discussion here. It is clear from both the preparatory work and the committee report that hate crime legislation is neutral in this respect. It is true that 97 per cent of all reports of hate crimes are about when a minority, such as immigrants, are attacked, but also in cases where a Swedish person is attacked precisely because he or she is Swedish, the hate crime legislation can be used. That is the case, and all the statements about the opposite, which I know appear in the debate, are incorrect.
i-31b32499a66e5410-137	Madam President, I would like This debate concerns the type of youth robbery, sometimes with humiliation, which, unfortunately, has increased significantly in recent years. Since 2014, youth robberies have increased by 125 per cent to a total of 2,500 robberies only last year. We also see this crime creeping further and further down the age range. Previously it was about 15 – 16-year-olds; today it is unfortunately not uncommon that 10 – 12-year-olds commit these serious crimes. The danger is that if we do not deal with this new situation today, we will shoot these problems ahead of us, because the people who rob others today are probably the same people who will shoot and blow up on our streets tomorrow. In recent times we have been struck by horrendous tales of how robbing, so to speak, is not enough, but also demeaning the victims of crime. I myself have spoken to police officers who say that today it is not the robbery itself that is the driving force, but the humiliation itself. It has become a bizarre way of acquiring status in the criminal environment. I'm not going to go into everything that's happened, because I think we've all taken part of them and I think we've all been horrified. Swedish Police Commissioner Anders Thornberg recently said that we have seen an explosive development of youth robberies. He specifically pointed out the problem that a non-criminal person can rob one day and still be back on the streets the day after or even the same evening, and that he can then continue to rob, blackmail and threaten his victims. It's not just the robbery itself, getting something stolen, that's the problem. This is about children and young people, and the consequences of the robbery unfortunately persist many times for a long time, yes, perhaps throughout life. There are, of course, many different things that need to be done to deal with this. More severe punishment is good. Social services must be given a much clearer mandate in the Social Services Act to prioritise preventive work. We need to remove the confidentiality barriers that are currently actively preventing police and social services from working together. The Moderates have proposed what we call a no entry programme, i.e. not just an exit programme but a national programme to prevent ten to twelve-year-olds from growing up and becoming hardened criminals. We must limit the possibility of law on the care of young people at home because that form does not work. I will come back to more in my next speech.
i-31b32499a66e5410-148	Madam President, I would like We are here to debate the humiliation robberies that were on the rise before the Corona crisis hit Sweden hard. I believe that, despite the national crisis situation, it is important for us to be able to hold debates of this kind, because crime has not stopped and young people unfortunately do not stop being robbed. We would like to call this debate a debate on anti-Swedish violence. What is expressed in news reports and that renders a news value is precisely the humiliation and feature of Swedish hostility. Robbery has always occurred and gone in waves depending on when new mobiles came, jackets trended and so on. But now we are receiving intensive news reports about Swedish anti-violence in connection with these robberies. The Minister of Justice points out in his opening speech that the statistics show that 97 percent of the convictions concerning hate crimes apply to Swedes who expose minorities, such as people of other ethnic backgrounds, to hate crimes. However, there is an obvious problem here. Although for many years we have seen repeated cases where people with ethnic background other than Swedish expose Swedes to hate crimes, it is very rarely the case that prosecutors prosecute for hate crimes. Only prosecutions for robberies or other offences in this context are brought. This is a major problem, which is why we want to raise this debate to the very issue of anti-Swedish violence. This is where the debate is agitated, and this is where the victims of crime are being punished. Today, the violation that Swedes are subjected to in cases of hate crime is not being weighed up. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister for Justice and the Government: Do we recognise that there is a real and growing problem of anti-Swedish violence in our country? Will one do something about all the cases where Swedes are subjected to humiliation robbery and are violated because of their ethnic affiliation and where prosecutors so clearly do not prosecute for hate crimes? Redress is required for all victims of crime regardless of ethnic background.
i-31b32499a66e5410-154	Madam President, I would like We have for some time had a development in Sweden in terms of crime that is worrying. Perhaps we had had the chance to get used to living in one of the world's most secure countries, perhaps we did not think that developments could turn down after decades of increased security, and perhaps we prioritised the current political issues over a long-term and forward-looking legal policy that would have built the whole legal chain strong. In some areas of crime, things are moving in the wrong direction today, and this trend must be reversed. However, not everything is night black. We see how the police are starting to get their business in order after a rather messy reorganization, and we see improvements in many parts of the country regarding, for example, investigation results. But it does little to help the victim of crime. It does not bring comfort to the one who is degraded in the worst way in his vulnerability. The fact that young people are exposed to a serious crime can set a deep mark that they carry with them for a long time to come. It affects our security and how we view other people and risks restricting us in a way that reduces our quality of life. For those affected, society, state, municipality and civil society must be there and provide their unreserved support. For those who commit crimes against others, the reaction of society must be crystal clear: These acts are not accepted in any civilized society. If you yourself are not able to refrain from committing crimes, we will help you to refrain, and it will be done with a flora of measures that are currently growing. The latest example is youth monitoring. It is all about being able to put in the most effective measure or sanction possible to push a young person on a non-critical path in life. In order to reverse developments in those areas that are going in the wrong direction in terms of insecurity, we need to focus on the objective. Law enforcement authorities must have the best possible conditions to do their job. This requires a good legal policy. I have to say, Madam President, that Swedish justice policy has been failing in quality for a long time. Although the government delivers some legislation in the area of justice, it is only after other than the government parties have put political pressure on the issues. I have long lacked a clear line on the part of the government on what we really want with justice policy. The administration of justice must be seen as a system in which every part of the justice chain should play its role as well as possible. Any problem of insecurity should be met with balanced measures that we know from research and proven experience can be assumed to solve the problem. For this to happen, leadership is needed that is greater and clearer than it has been so far. In the leadership is also to focus on the right things. It is about keeping a long-term wise line, deciding on a strategy and allowing our authorities to pursue it without coming up with new directions every time the media ask, and about refraining from using people's never-so-justified concerns about insecurity as a political bat to push other agendas.
i-31b32499a66e5410-162	Madam President, I would like All the robberies that take place are totally unacceptable and a great humiliation for the victim. It's not okay for young people to rob someone, but especially against other young people. It has to stop. But there's no such thing as a robbery of humiliation. All robberies are degrading to the victim. We can see which children are going to get hurt already in preschool class. We know which children have the greatest challenges and which may end up crooked at an early age. Despite this, the resources of society are not put in force when they can really make a difference. Instead, the government allows the economic divides of society to grow, despite the fact that large gaps create more crime. It is between 18 and 20 years of age that the absolute highest levels of prosecution take place. The most important lesson about crime is that it decreases as people get older. As early as 1999, Brå noted that youth robberies increased sharply and that it was young boys aged 15-17 with foreign origin who lived in socially vulnerable areas who carried out the robberies during the day. The switch was cell phones. Brå warned that these robberies could be a breeding ground for racism. This is not a topical debate. This is a problem that has existed for over 20 years. That is why prevention is the key to stopping all crime. Preventive work is about a safe upbringing, about knowing that your parents are not in danger of being kicked and in poverty because the world is going through a pandemic, about knowing that the rent can be paid, that there is breakfast in the fridge and that there is a social service if breakfast is over and that that conversation about Dad beating Mom must be able to be offered. Economic divides are no excuse for crime, but that is an explanation. Once the crime has been committed, the punishment must be there, and the punishment must be adapted to the young people in order to have a real effect. If you want a 15-year-old who robs a friend to become a professional criteria, lock this young person in a long sentence in an institution together with adults. Small financial gaps, a school with resources, reduced normalisation of racism and penalties adapted to young people – here you go, and we will solve the youth robbery!
i-31b32499a66e5410-168	Madam President, I would like Although our country is greatly affected by the Corona, it is an important debate that we have here today on the robbery of children and young people. Robbery literally means taking someone else's property by force or threat of violence. But there is a deeper and more important significance: the feeling of not being protected, of being someone else's prey and that at any time you can be not only robbed but also humiliated. This feeling spreads rapidly in a society, even to those who have not been exposed. This may involve parents who feel that they have to pick up their children from soccer practice to get home safely or that their friends do not want to go home after school to avoid going home alone later in the evening. In just a few years, the number of robberies against young victims has more than doubled. In 2019, 2,484 crimes were reported. This is an alarming development. Crimes occur throughout our country, both in large cities and in smaller towns. We have seen how the robberies have taken a terrible course compared to what it was like just a few years ago. It seems that there is a different purpose than simply usurping valuables. You also want to humiliate and abuse the one you steal from. They want to show power and expose their victims to violence with degrading elements. Crime must be combated and prevented. When it comes to the latter, the family is an invaluable resource. The role of the family in raising and leading young people cannot be stressed enough. Good standards and values can be transferred between generations and therefore parental responsibility needs to be strengthened. Madam President, I would like Preventing crime and early detection of children and young people at risk of crime is of paramount importance. Among other things, a number of measures are needed in the social field. The Christian Democrats have proposed a billion-dollar initiative for social action against crime. The social services need to be strengthened, but the Christian Democrats also want to see a national crisis social emergency services that can be deployed in particularly vulnerable places. Schools, social offices, police and leisure activities should work together even more closely. Madam President, I would like If, despite the efforts of the family and society, a criminal path is chosen, society needs to show forcefully and clearly that behaviour is not acceptable. It is positive that the Minister of Justice made it clear that the penalty rebate for legal persons should be abolished, but changes also need to be made for those under the age of 18. Some time ago, media reporting showed a robbery involving both assault and humiliation. The perpetrators were given juvenile care according to their age, but if the perpetrators had been adults, the penalty would have been several years in prison. This is not reasonable and also means that the victim does not get the redress that is expected. The law needs to be amended in order to increase the penalty value of misdemeanors, even for offenders under the age of 18.
i-31b32499a66e5410-176	Madam President, I would like Nothing is as difficult as fighting crime long-term and sustainable. It is easy to end up in tunnel vision in these debates, where you should go either on the purely social therapeutic line or on the purely brutal line, i.e. lock them up and at worst throw away the key. None of this is good enough, but in this circle of the Swedish Parliament we must be able to use both entrances. It is quite clear to us Liberals that no one is born a criminal. All the young people who commit crimes right now or have done so this year or last year have grown up and ended up in situations that have led them to take the course of the crime or that they have been so vulnerable that they have been dragged into the gang of criminals. Therefore, the Liberals always point to various efforts to prevent first. We have something that we call the suburban lift, where we try to push for earlier and stronger efforts in both preschools and language preschools as well as ordinary schools. We know that very few young people become criminals if they graduate from school in general and from high school in particular with at least a passing grade. Then the future of a young person is bright in Sweden. We are talking about integration and the integration debt that we have in Sweden and that we must be able to talk about is a contributing problem. Values and housing – everything related to the broad social brush strokes – is important to counteract what I usually call the mental ice age that these young people grow up in, completely without values. The values spin like a compass where they are drawn into one or the other and where they have idols and role models from – excuse the expression – hell. We believe that, in parallel with the broad social efforts, we must dare to talk about earlier, clearer and a little tougher efforts. It is a question of social services having more of a real middle ground. We need to be more prepared to investigate crimes that have actually been committed with evidence. We need to review the confidentiality rules so that the police can act more effectively. We need to be clearer in that we fundamentally change the automatic penalty rebates. The Supreme Court removed automatic tables for drugs, but we still have them when young people commit crimes, regardless of their personal judgment. It is as far from liberalism as can be achieved. There is therefore a need for earlier and clearer action. Youth monitoring is very good when it comes in place. But we also need to be tougher. When children stand against children, it is important that, in the worst case, they can also be detained in order not least to investigate the crimes at the bottom. So the whole thing should be earlier, clearer and tougher.
i-31b32499a66e5410-183	Madam President, I would like Experiences in childhood can last a lifetime – the feeling of fear and shame. Being subjected to crime is traumatic, just like being subjected to bullying. This is where the school is absolutely central. In Sweden we have compulsory schooling, and everyone who attends comprehensive school is legally obliged to be there. Rectors, teachers and other students often know to a large extent who are committing crimes but also who are at risk of crime long before they fall there. This is largely about resources. At the same time, schools with the toughest challenges should have the best conditions. The government has for a long time made several efforts to achieve greater equivalence in school, including through Collaboration for best school and equivalence grant. It is also about the school having a good dialogue with other parts of society when it comes to these children. Cooperation with the police, social services and civil society is crucial. It is a shared responsibility to catch those who fall. In this context, all children are everyone's children. Madam President, I would like The government has made a historic effort on the police. We have raised penalties for a lot of crimes, and we have introduced new sanctions for young offenders. We are about to change the law on the care of young people. And we've adopted a 34-point program against gang crime. In this context, Madam President, it is crucial to highlight the importance of social services. It cannot be overestimated. Particularly important is the time when we are now in an impending crisis. Already vulnerable activities will need to devote more resources to supply support. We cannot afford not to have a social service with resources also for families with problems of abuse, violence and crime.
i-31b32499a66e5410-187	Madam President, I would like These are serious crimes we're talking about. Sometimes it is easy to take these into account because there is a general trend that juvenile delinquency is increasing. But there is actually no evidence of that. It is rather the opposite, if you look at the whole picture. The number of young people prosecuted for crime has decreased by over 30 per cent in ten years. This applies in particular to crimes of theft and vandalism, but also to beatings. Health care data confirm that the number of young people who have needed inpatient care as a result of being exposed to violence has decreased by over 50% over the past ten years. After all, I think that this picture must be carried along so that we do not say in simple terms that the overall increase in juvenile delinquency is only due to the increase in this category of crime. However, the category of robbery increases. That is why we must go on these crimes and, after all, the limited group of individuals who commit them. Strong action must be taken against them. I've explained the investment we've made on the police. We're strengthening the police all over the line. I've reported the removal of the youth reduction, which means we're doubling the penalty for an 18-year-old robber. I have explained the increased arrest possibilities that we will also introduce in the event of robbery. Johan Pehrson mentioned youth monitoring. There we are also on our way, and there will be a new penalty. It's gonna be important. With regard to the group of 15 – 17-year-olds, we say in the 34-point programme that we need to be much clearer in terms of spending money on LVU management. This is necessary for us to be able to intervene at an earlier stage among those who are in serious crime. As many have pointed out, in addition to combating crime, we must also combat the causes of crime. It is about making strong efforts in schools and social services in not least vulnerable areas. When I hear Johan Forssell talk about how we should invest in social services, I think it sounds false. What was the first Moderates to do when they had the chance in this House in 2018 to push through a budget? Well, they removed SEK 400 million that we had set aside specifically for investments in school and social services in the vulnerable areas. It was the first thing the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats did when they had a chance here to decide on the budget. We will now have to reintroduce this money and effort. They are extremely important for dealing with problems such as these in the longer term. One cannot say in one breath that one should prevent crime and invest in social services, and in the next breath cut down on those very points, as the Moderates have done.
i-31b32499a66e5410-195	Madam President, I would like As so often before, the crescendo in the Minister of Justice's speeches deals with the Moderates. I would like to put on record only that we reduced the targeted contributions but also increased the general ones. This is something that the Minister of Justice's party colleagues in the country usually welcome. Let's get back to the point. We have problems with people who rob and threaten other minors and who are very soon later back on the streets. Only the other day, the police have described this as a major problem. The Moderates say that legislation should be changed so that more people who are of criminal age are actually detained and detained in order to prevent them from continuing to rob, threaten or make a general mess for other children and young people. I wonder how the Minister of Justice views the Moderates' proposals in this area.
i-31b32499a66e5410-198	Madam President, I would like What the Moderates did was just to cut down the targeted money to the vulnerable areas. Then they want to sneak some out to other municipalities, but that doesn't help much. What they normally did was to remove the money directed to social services and school in the affected areas. Johan Forssell must understand that he must be prepared to stand for this in a debate. He can't just casually say that I'm mean to him because I'm bringing this up. This is how it works in a debate. You have to stand by your proposals, your decisions and what you press through in this House. That's how it works for all politicians. Let me return to the question of criminal authority and intervention. I stand for the fact that we need to do more care within the LVU. I think that's the way to go. I don't want too many 15-year-olds in jail, along with maybe felons, who are sometimes there. It would lead to a mistake, I think.
i-31b32499a66e5410-201	Madam President, I would like What the Minister of Justice doesn't tell us is that with the Moderates' budget there will be more money for the municipalities. With his own, it'll be smaller. In fact, that is the case. Back to the substance of the matter, i.e. minors who are still of criminal age and who threaten others. We in the Moderates have said that special youth detention could be set up with, for example, study opportunities, so that these people cannot continue to rob and threaten other children and young people. Wouldn't that be something for the government to consider?
i-31b32499a66e5410-203	Madam President, I would like First of all, I note that there is probably no other government that has contributed more money to the local government sector than this government has done and continues to do. You took away the targeted money for vulnerable areas. You didn't care about them. That's it. No, I want to make use of the order we have with LVU, the law on the care of young people, through which we can make forced dealings. Above all, however, it should be done by the institution that is able and able to do so, namely the National Board of Institutional Affairs. They will be responsible for this care. That's a much better way to go.
i-31b32499a66e5410-205	Madam President, I would like In connection with the debate on the robbery of humiliation, I have three specific questions relating to my previous speech. Does the government recognise Swedish hostility as a tangible and growing problem?
i-31b32499a66e5410-209	Madam President, I would like As I explained, the existing hate crime legislation can be applied to both cases. It's neutral. I know that the Swedish Democrats have tried to get the picture out that it is not, but that is actually the case. A v all reports concerning hatred of ethnic minorities is 97% about Swedes attacking immigrants because they are immigrants. In 3% of cases, the opposite is true. Of these 97%, not all reports are prosecuted. Rather, a few of them go to trial, since the prosecutor must be able to have a clear picture of the prosecution leading to a conviction. This means that we cannot draw any conclusions from the fact that none of these 3% have been prosecuted, as Adam Marttinen is trying to do in the debate.
i-31b32499a66e5410-211	Madam President, I would like To me it seems quite obvious that there are very many cases where Swedes are exposed to hate crimes but very few cases where that particular violation is mentioned as a basis for prosecution for hate crimes. If the Attorney General hasn't seen what's left here, I'll be very concerned. Why does the government not want to take action so that, in all cases of hate crime, whether it be for Swedes or foreigners, criminal justice is achieved for the violation you are subjected to?
i-31b32499a66e5410-213	Madam President, I would like It doesn't matter to me whether you're black or white. If you commit crimes, you should be locked up for it. You're supposed to get a sentence. That also applies to hate crimes. That is why, among other things, we have strengthened police activities in the area of hate crime. Special departments have now been set up in the three major cities, and they have competence throughout the country to do so. It doesn't matter if the crimes are committed with the motive that you are against Swedes or that you are against immigrants. It must be exactly the same rules that apply to everyone. That's my message.
i-31b32499a66e5410-214	Madam President, I would like Youth robberies have been around for over 20 years. As early as 1999, Brå warned of this growing and emerging trend and that it could lead to increased racism in society. Today we see that racism is normalising and that Parliament, for example, uses valuable time during the Corona epidemic to debate crime that cannot be punished away. Madam President, I would like That is why I wonder how the Minister for Justice sees the fact that certain forms of crime are used to strengthen the racist agendas of different parties themselves, to create a greater gap between Swedes and immigrants, to build a we and a judgment and to blame certain forms of crime on a major problem of immigration.
i-31b32499a66e5410-216	Madam President, I would like This is probably what one calls a leading question in the context of interrogation. I am not going to bite it in this respect, but I am actually going to say only what I said earlier, that is to say that the important thing on the part of the state is that the same rules and the same legislation apply to everyone. If you are attacked because you are Swedish or because you are an immigrant, you must have the same right to receive redress and justice. In the political debate, we know that there are parties that want to push this issue to divide. Then they'll have to do it. For my own part, the most important thing is to try instead to look at things that are common and that hold society together.
i-31b32499a66e5410-218	Madam President, I would like It is a political debate that we have in this House today. There, the issue of normalisation of racism is very important. I would also like to ask the Minister of Justice how he views the hate crime legislation under attack right now. An attempt is being made to distort the very essence and meaning of hate crime legislation. As the Minister of Justice has already mentioned, in 97% of cases the majority society is attacking minorities.
i-31b32499a66e5410-220	Madam President, I would like The hate crime legislation is very important. If, for example, we do not have legislation on incitement to ethnic groups and the basis of punishment for hate crimes, we risk unleashing forces that will only destroy society. There must be some kind of basic attitude that we stick to. I am therefore keen that we can enforce this legislation. That is why we are making the efforts we are making on the police, including on hate crime units.
i-31b32499a66e5410-221	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Justice has explained that the Government intends to present a proposal that changes the penalty discount for 18 to 20-year-olds when a crime has a penalty value over a year. However, the debate on media reporting shows that many serious crimes are also committed by young people aged 15, 16 or 17 years. What does the government intend to do about the penalty rebate that applies to these young people? Should not the development in which serious crime is committed also by 15, 16 and 17-year-olds mean that an examination of the penalty system should also be carried out for these offenders?
i-31b32499a66e5410-222	Madam President, I would like With regard to this group of young people, 15 to 17-year-olds, I think it is important to make it clear that we are talking about children. They must be dealt with in a specific way and with great sensitivity. If you deal with this error, there is a pretty great risk that you are rather leading this group of young people into increased crime. That's why my main lead is that we should use LVU, the law on the care of young people. Of course, we should go in first and foremost with open social action, but we may also need to take coercive measures if necessary, for example for those who grow up in a criminal environment. We're going to go in with money for it to make it easier for the municipalities to do the care. We also need to strengthen the State's board of institutions, the authority that manages that activity and knows this. I think that's the best way to go for that age group.
i-31b32499a66e5410-224	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his answer, although I do not share his view. Media reporting during the week shows that the introduction of an interpretation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child means that young offenders caught by police in the act are not detained for so long that an interrogation can take place on the basis of existing guidelines. How does the Minister of Justice view the fact that interrogations are not carried out in connection with crimes?
i-31b32499a66e5410-226	Madam President, I would like I have seen that debate. I know that there is a discussion within the judiciary on how to interpret those guidelines. I refrain from doing that interpretation. It is a matter for the authorities to do it. But, of course, it is important for us to be able to conduct interrogations and to get to the bottom of what has actually happened. I would like to point out that we are also going in with another measure, namely youth monitoring, which will be another penalty for this age group, 15 to 17-year-olds.
i-31b32499a66e5410-228	Madam President, I would like I will return to the question of the prosecutor general's guidelines. It is clear that they are built on the legislation we have. A balanced assessment is made. We are also talking about this fantastic Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is very important but which a lot of people have misinterpreted. For example, I have had contact with UNICEF today. They have a great interest in the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Sweden and worldwide. They see no problem whatsoever in arresting, arresting and, in some cases, arresting young people who commit very serious crime.
i-31b32499a66e5410-231	Madam President, I would like This is a discussion that has come up in the last few days. I know that right now there is a dialogue about how the Public Prosecutor's guidelines are to be interpreted. There is a discussion about whether they have been interpreted correctly in some places. I do not want to anticipate this discussion at this stage. I think we need to let the time go a little bit so that we can see how it crystallizes. If legislative changes are needed to clarify this, we will have to deal with it. Then you should know that it is a fairly long process that we then go into. It takes time to make a law. At best, it can be clarified without any new legislative dossiers. In substance, I share the view that there must be opportunities for the judiciary to investigate what has happened at the bottom and also to do so at an early stage. Let us return to that question when it has become clear a little bit in that dialogue.
i-31b32499a66e5410-234	Madam President, I would like I welcome this, of course. We call for transparency. We cannot say that the Prosecutor General decides and then see an outcome we are not satisfied with. There has to be a change. There's no other option. We are not talking about the wide brush here with young people. There I agree with the Minister for Justice in his opening statement. Crime has declined on a broad front. But it has become increasingly rougher for some people who are sucked into these gangs and exploited. They destroy their own future, and they destroy the future of others. They need to be investigated. This will require both arrest and detention as a matter of urgency.
i-31b32499a66e5410-236	Madam President, I would like Let us follow that discussion a little further and see if we need to take any action on our part. If so, we are no stranger to that. Then we will take note of what Johan Pehrson said last time. What we see is polarization. It is a fairly limited group of individuals and young people who commit these vile crimes, while juvenile delinquency has declined overall over the last ten years. These two facts can be true at the same time. That picture should also be seen.
i-31b32499a66e5410-238	Madam President, I would like The issue we are discussing here today is youth robbery, unfortunately also sometimes with humiliation. These youth robberies have increased by 125 per cent since 2014. This is an enormous increase. It's an explosive increase, to use the word of the chief of police. However you twist it and turn it around, I think it is clear that the government has not done enough. It is difficult to describe more than a doubling as that would be a good result or that you could not have done more things. There is a political responsibility here. Of course, it is always tempting for a government to talk about what other parties have done. But let me remind you that six years is a long time in politics. Let us now look to the future. I think there's a lot of things you can do here. I have already described our proposal on special juvenile detention in order to detain people of criminal age so that they cannot continue to rob and threaten people on the streets. Today, the law on the care of young people is too often used to place people in their own home, even though it is where there are often major problems. It is a form that simply does not work. It must be severely limited, because the results are too poor. There it will be necessary to expand Sis sites and do more care to remove these people from the criminal environments and their criminal identity so that they can start a new and better life. For the most serious criminals, a new unit should be set up with the Prison Service. That is where the expertise and know-how exist to deal with people who have been criminals half their lives and know nothing else. That's where the skills are. It is not easy for many smaller municipalities to do so. That, along with the punitive measures, I think, could get the juvenile robbery back together.
i-31b32499a66e5410-245	Madam President, I would like When it comes to combating youth robbery and criminality at young ages, the Swedish Democrats have always been in favour of taking earlier and clearer measures. We believe that it is a normative reflex on the part of society towards these behaviours that are lacking today. Today there is a huge focus on not acting too much, but rather acting too little and too late. There we have also seen, as a consequence, a development in which crime has crept down in the ages. It is not possible in this debate to ignore the fact that in not a single case of these high-profile humiliation robberies that have prompted this debate, and which have contained very clear elements of Swedish hostility, prosecutors have chosen to prosecute hate crimes. If you don't see that it's a problem and are not prepared to take any steps to even acquire more knowledge or get to grips with the problem, you say straight out that hate crimes in Sweden are totally okay as long as the victims of the crime are Swedes. Here there is a very clear line between the Swedish Democrats and the Red-Green Government. We stand up for all victims, and we value the violation of all victims in formulating our policies. There will be clearer consequences, and punishment should be based on actual violation regardless of the background. It is a policy that I think would be appreciated by all those who are subjected to these humiliation robberies so that they really feel that society is on their side and not on the side of the perpetrator.
i-31b32499a66e5410-249	Madam President, I would like It is said that in distress the friend is being tested. Perhaps in the crisis the leadership is being tested. In all the darkness that the Corona crisis brings, there are still small sparkles of light that are important to see. It's about the way we take responsibility for each other and help each other to the best of our ability. Perhaps we also strengthen our leadership, our spirit of cooperation and how we work together to achieve results here in Parliament. I took part in the debate of the Committee on Finance this morning. It is a very constructive spirit to try to solve the enormous difficulties that the entire Swedish business community will face in the near future, in addition to the important health aspects. Very much is about leadership and the absence of leadership. Exploiting the vulnerability of a victim and exploiting the violation suffered by the victim with a view to obtaining cheap political points is as far away from leadership as can be achieved. Sharing images and films of a victim who is degraded is a further violation of the victim. From this every serious opinion-maker must abstain, and for that every serious legislator must be too good. Madam President, I would like We can reverse this trend. With long-term responsibility for building the rule of law stronger and increasing the law enforcement capacity of our law enforcement agencies, we are also breaking back the kind of crime we are debating today. With more cooperation, solid knowledge of both the causes of crime and the methods that work best to combat it, and a look height above a longer horizon, we build the country increasingly secure so that the risk of being exposed to crime becomes as small as it can be. This applies to old and young and to every person living in our elongated country.
i-31b32499a66e5410-253	Madam President, I would like This debate is due to the fact that there is a racist context: to want to mark the similarity between immigrants and criminals. It's about creating a really strong us and them. The social debate is being pressured to point out that there are some other people, foreigners, immigrants or asylum seekers who carry out crime in Sweden – and these crimes are something other than Swedish crime. There is an extreme normalisation of racism in Swedish justice policy. It started with SD, and it continues with the Moderates and KD. These are small steps, for example, to consider hand salutation to be a political statement, to ban veils in schools, to pretend that youth robbery is something new that came at the same time as asylum immigration in 2015. Youth robbery is nothing new. Brå warned of the new phenomenon already 20 years ago. To constantly tilt, twist, point out and at the same time argue that we are saying what everyone is going to do with the debate and society. All robberies are humiliating and terrible for the victim. This debate on the robbery which the Moderates have requested is being conducted because the SD requested a debate on Swedish hostility – but the President said no. There you have the normalization of a racist context. SD gets no. The Moderates take over their problem formulation with a marginal language change. This is the same debate, but with a different name. Racism is ugly and sometimes difficult to touch, but it is everywhere – even in this House.
i-31b32499a66e5410-258	Madam President, I would like As I highlighted in my first speech, we Christian Democrats believe that efforts are needed in many areas to break the trend of robbery and robbery. The whole society with the family as a starting point needs to work together to counteract the negative trend we are seeing right now. Efforts required include minimising penalty rebates, including for those under 18 years of age. At the same time, the Prison Service is required to create appropriate measures for young criminals. There is a need for the establishment of a national crisis social emergency services. If social services are already heavily burdened, caring for both victims and perpetrators can be a major burden. Then we need national help that is deployed where the amount of crime increases. There is a need for increased cooperation between schools, social services, police and leisure activities that can provide early family support. Furthermore, relieved confidentiality rules can mean that people who are heading out into anti-social behaviour are caught up in the past. Young victims of crime must also receive much better support, not least in view of the brutalised violence that exists in these robberies. There must be support for young victims. We need to find ways to break the trend of degradation in our society. There is a need for efforts and efforts by parents, society and legal systems against young perpetrators who commit robbery and humiliation crimes. Today's system is not working well enough. The locked seats at Sis are too few. The prosecution of young people is too slow. Youth sanctions are too toothless and the penalty rebates are too far-reaching. And it is difficult to detain minors, even in the case of serious crime. We owe it to the victims to take this issue more seriously. Our children and young people are our future. Let us ensure that their upbringing is safe without fear of robbery and beatings with humiliation. It's time to reverse the trend.
i-31b32499a66e5410-264	Madam President, I would like We must take this debate as an alarm without becoming excessively alarmist. When you talk to police and social services, which are in the absolute front line, teachers, curators and school nurses at school, they tell about environments for these young children that lead them to commit all sorts of appalling crimes. It is a social and intellectual misery of great measure that lies behind it. We've heard of a fine and now a manning and lots of different actions that have gone over to having clearly degrading elements. It is boasted and filmed, and the social media are twisting the knife for the victims in a way that is hard to absorb. That is why we Liberals believe that we need a broad range of measures in which we need to look at confidentiality rules so that the police know why they pick up a kid at Farsta station every day of the week, including what it looks like at home. The rules of confidentiality are completely incomprehensible. I have said this before in this House: it is time to draw a line on them. We would like to see more work done on 24-hour or 48-hour guarantees so that parents can be quickly involved if a crime of the not more serious kind has occurred. We have even pointed out, and do so again, that the foundation of the Swedish Social Services Act needs to be reformed. It is written in the 1970s for a completely different society with completely different problems. We have to remake that law in the first place. Measures involving voluntary dialogue, youth care if convicted, youth services or youth monitoring are not sufficient. We need to get in early with intermission. I repeat that we Liberals think it starts at school. There is a need for massive action here.
i-31b32499a66e5410-269	Madam President, I would like It has been discussed whether the youth robbery has increased, how much, whether it was worse in the past and whether the ethnicity of victims is part of the motive or not. Whatever the case, all robbery and degrading acts are important and should be taken very seriously. We must acquire knowledge that is not anecdotal, but we must also act here and now. On behalf of the Green Party, we want to deepen the work carried out in collaboration between state authorities and municipalities to act against serious criminal acts committed by children and young people between the ages of 12 and 18. It can be about violent crimes and robberies but also about drug and sex crimes. The aim is to find rapid forms of work where the consequences for the perpetrators of crime are to be felt quickly – regardless of the penalty imposed. A crucial part of this is that the security of the victim should be central. A person who has been subjected to violence or threats, for example, should be provided with robust protection, and direct numbers or personal alarms may be considered. This means that the state, through authorities, police, prosecutors, the relevant district court, county administrative board and the municipality in question, should in future allocate special resources for these issues. Municipalities should also be able to select schools where the problems are more obvious, and you can develop ways of working where each school can associate staff from social services and the police. You should be on the scene quickly if people are harassed. Much of this, Madam President, can be made possible with new forms of work in existing legislation, but of course we should not be any stranger to whether changes in legislation are needed. For example, aftercare for sentenced persons under LSU is such a part. No one should get caught in serious crime.
i-31b32499a66e5410-274	Madam President, I would like A bit of a reality check with the Green Party: Does Member Rasmus Ling think that there is anti-Swedish violence? If that is the case, Madam President, is Rasmus Ling satisfied with the non-existent criminal remedy for precisely that kind of hate crime?
i-31b32499a66e5410-275	Madam President, I would like Racism in society is a poison. Racism is unacceptable and must be combated in every way. Unfortunately, racism is too widespread, and it is around society. It does not depend on whether you are born in Sweden or elsewhere, but must be combated wherever it occurs. But the law should apply equally to everyone.
i-31b32499a66e5410-276	Madam President, I would like I take it that the Green Party still sees that there is racistly motivated violence against those who are considered to have Swedish ethnicity. In that case, it's a case forward. But then question number two remains: Is Rasmus Ling and the Green Party satisfied with the non-existent criminal justice remedy in the very many cases where Swedish hostility has been a clear motive, including the humiliation robberies we are discussing today?
i-31b32499a66e5410-278	Madam President, I would like It is by no means a step either forward or backward. The Green Party has always held the position that the law should apply equally to everyone and that we should tackle racism wherever it arises. That has been our line since we formed our party and will continue to be our line. It should be clear to everyone. Racism must always be combated wherever it occurs, whether it is within the Swedish Democrats or elsewhere in society.
i-31b32499a66e5410-279	Madam President, I would like I would just like to take this opportunity to thank you for the debate. My point here has been that although juvenile delinquency overall and generally seems to have declined in the last ten years, we see an upswing in some cases, including the robberies we have been talking about now. We're seeing a rise. In my opinion, it is probably a limited group of individuals, but it is still a matter of putting in place strong measures on the part of society to break this in time. Otherwise, we risk ending up in a situation in which these particular individuals will end up in even more serious criminality in the future. It's about investing in the police. It's a matter of punishment. This is about LVU legislation. But it is also a question of preventing crime, that is to say, continuing to make great efforts in terms of general welfare, as well as school and social services in the vulnerable areas. The government will continue to do so within the framework of our 34 point programme against gang crime.
