i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-0	Mr President, I would like to Today's party leader debate is taking place in a situation where it takes a collection to face one of the biggest crises the world has experienced. We are faced with a common task. When the government classified the new Corona virus as a social disease in February, more than 14,000 were infected worldwide. Today, nearly 30 million people have had the disease. In Sweden, many people have died. Many mourn their beloved family members and friends. Yet, in grief, we have been able to gather strength. We help each other. We're there for each other. We make collective sacrifices. And together we have brought down the spread of the disease and helped the care to cope with it. Let us take it with us in our efforts to establish security in streets and squares. The concern parents have about letting their children go to soccer alone is a concern for all of us. Killing, shooting and gang crime are tearing up the social shit. We must all continue to show determination. Shortly after the 2014 elections, the government decided on a number of measures to tackle organised crime. During this parliamentary term, we have presented the biggest package against gang crime ever, and we are systematically dealing with this. We have tightened up more than 50 sentences and introduced more than 20 new crimes. There have never been more police in Sweden. Prisons are full. But we're not done. The problem is still there. The police department is clear that they can never stop the gangs alone. If we want to get to the new recruitment and save today's children from a future as gang members or victims of crime, we must all do more. Better cooperation between authorities is needed. Social services, schools and health care need to have the resources and ability to catch young people before they end up in crime. So the police are right. The whole of society must gather together. That is our common task. Mr President, I would like to The Corona crisis has made clear the shortcomings of our building society. For a long time and under different governments, what must be the most important thing in a welfare society, namely welfare, and not least elderly care, has been neglected. Historical efforts on welfare have been made since 2014. And today, 100,000 more people work in health care, school and care. So the direction is right. But we're not done there either, far from it. Let me give you an example. Welfare cannot be largely borne by people who, because of their working conditions, have an insecure income, lower wage development and a lower pension and who do not receive any skills development. Yes, we will work Sweden out of the crisis, but we cannot go back to everything as it was before. We need to build something new and something better. When we do, no one should doubt what is the line between right and wrong. We should be clear about what expectations and demands we have on each other. And it has to start with the kids. Children need care, care, and love. They need security. But they also need sound values. Whoever chooses to be a parent has a responsibility here. It has a responsibility to set limits, a responsibility to make clear which behaviours are not tolerated. You have to try to take that responsibility on your own. And yes, the parent who needs support in this should have it and receive it. But as a society, we cannot accept that children are brought up in a lack of standards, that teenagers are amok, or that antisocial behaviour is inherited. Mr President, I would like to The Corona crisis has created a new political situation in Sweden. At the same time, the historic crisis we are going through today creates historic opportunities for the future. It will take courage here. It will require determination from all of us. My long-term priorities will be the jobs. It is only when everyone who can work works that we can expand the welfare. It is only when everyone who can work works that we can speed up the absolutely necessary climate change. And it is only when everyone who can work works that we can afford more police and better preventive social measures against crime. Having a job gives self-respect. Watching your parents go to work gives you confidence in the future. The struggle for jobs is therefore a struggle for prosperity and equality. It is also a struggle against discouragement, exclusion and desperation. And it is a struggle that must be our common ground. Mr President, I would like to On Monday, the government and the cooperation parties were able to tell us that we agree to strengthen Swedish welfare significantly. In 2021, there will be more than 40 billion more to welfare than in 2018. This includes the largest national investment in Swedish elderly care ever. Let me mention, in particular, the Old Care Lift. It is a competence development initiative where new and existing staff are given the opportunity to train as a nurse or assistant on paid working hours. That security deserves the elderly who have built our country. And those working conditions deserve the staff. This is how we work together in terms of welfare and in practice. It makes me proud, and it makes me happy. Next year, we will also introduce a special pension supplement for those who have worked their entire working life at a low salary. And the difference in taxation in terms of pension and salary should be completely removed. There's more coming. Next year, we'll spend over 100 billion on restarting the economy. You have to go many decades back in time to find a bet of that magnitude. The previous parliamentary term's efforts on care for the elderly, health care and school showed the way forward. And the crisis policy that we have presented in these months continues to show the way forward. Here are the green jobs of the future, there are export opportunities and here is the road to a stronger society. That is the path that the government is taking today, and we will continue along that path tomorrow.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-16	Mr President, I would like to There comes a day when we can talk about the Corona crisis as history, but we cannot yet. Many countries are still humbled by where this is going. The Moderates have been pushing the government all spring for more tests and more powerful financial support for those who have suffered the worst. We will continue to cooperate, but we will also continue to demand a better Swedish strategy that does not once again betray Sweden's older people. Testing, infectious detection, isolation – it is those who are infected and ill who are to be isolated, not all of Sweden's elderly. The government must step forward and make decisions. But Sweden has so many other problems that we have long been plagued by and that have not taken a break at all during the Corona crisis. This is, for example, an increasingly serious crime. Almost every day there are new murders, stabbings or shootings. The criminal gangs terrorize entire residential areas in Sweden. It is also about unemployment, which is now higher in Sweden than in Italy. In June, our unemployment rate increased fastest among all countries across the EU. Much that is good in our country is now clouded by all that is bad. This is at the top of my agenda: fighting crime and fighting unemployment. Both issues require a different policy and a new course. I know that Sweden could be a much better country if we just decided and made the right decision. I also know that a great deal will be required of each of us, both as a citizen and as a fellow human being. It also requires strong and clear political leadership with a government that understands the gravity of the situation, that knows what it wants, that speaks plain text and calls a spade a spade, that has the power to act and that can cooperate with others to get something done. Everyone sees that Sweden currently lacks such leadership. Some people also say it out loud. Stefan Löfven and his government do not even want to acknowledge the connection between large immigration, poor integration and growing crime. Last week, the Prime Minister called Sweden's serious violent criminals petty gangsters. It's just a word, but sometimes words are actually important. If the highest responsible for the internal and external security of the country does not even understand the problem, he cannot become part of the solution. And when the government is part of the problem, the government must be replaced. Stefan Löfven does not look up and out over Sweden. He looks down into a deal with 73 points. None of these points are about destroying organised crime. How is it even possible to write 73 points of Swedish politics and miss crime? Last week I was in Akalla and met worried parents. A young mother who came from Syria told us that drug trafficking is now taking place openly and in the middle of the day as a power demonstration. The gangs want to show that they own the street, not the rest of us. At the same time, police officers in Rinkeby testify that children are socialized into crime, or as another parent said: The guys with gold chains and black cars are the young boys' idols. Last week when I was in Botkyrka to discuss violence prevention work, an experienced police officer told me that young people are systematically threatened with silence. A guy had got a gun up in his mouth as a signal that he would now shut up. In Norsborg, as we all know, twelve-year-old Adriana was killed in early August. It's basically unbelievable. It wasn't long since my girls were 12. I can only imagine the bottomless grief. Her death must be a turning point. Otherwise something important will be destroyed in our country. If you understand that, you can also understand why we can no longer be content with small adjustments in the margin. It takes pattern-breaking changes with measures that lead to real change, because if we just do as we have always done, it will go as it has always been. In my very first speech as a party leader, I said that in my Sweden neither gender, class nor clan will be allowed to limit the future of young people. Last Saturday, Deputy Chief of Police Mats Löfving spoke clearly. He noted that there are 40 clans in Sweden who have come here to organize and systematize crime. He said, "They're working to create power, they're capable of violence, and they want to make money." The Commissioner calls for several of the political proposals put forward by the Moderates. He looks at other countries that have done more than Sweden. It is possible to reverse the trend. Look at Denmark! They've done what we should do: double punishment for gang criminals, wiretaps, search and anonymous witnesses. This has been proposed by the Moderates for years. All of this the government has said no to. In fact, it is a disgrace for Sweden that we are exporting serious criminals to Denmark. And it is embarrassing for the government that it is only when they commit crimes in Denmark that they are convicted and given severe punishment. Sweden needs political leadership with the ability to implement a new criminal policy. There is a need for leadership that understands that it is the work line, not the benefit line, that can take Sweden forward and that can and wants to gather Sweden to solutions that raise broad respect in this House and among the Swedish people. That's how I look at my mission. The Moderates want to break the deadlock in Swedish politics, take hold of the problems and get something done, for Sweden needs a new course and a new government.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-28	Mr President, I would like to Our nation is fighting a war against an invisible enemy. This enemy has taken many's grandmother or grandfather, father or mother, a brother or a sister. I am not really going to say that I am speaking on behalf of everyone in this House, but in this context I think I can do so: our thoughts go to all those who have fallen victim to the ravages of the Corona virus and their relatives. This is an invisible enemy who has taken so much power that almost all the other social problems we face for a long time have had to go under the radar. That does not mean, Mr President, that these problems have disappeared. On the contrary, the welfare crisis remains. The insecurity and fear of many citizens of our country remains to a great extent. Crime, not least gang crime, persists and thrives. In Malmö, policemen were forced to back down when they were pushed back by extremists. In Gothenburg, two police officers were surrounded by about twenty gang criminals. The most aggressive man in that incident is formerly convicted of murder. And yet he goes free. He's free enough to set up roadblocks and threaten cops. He's free enough not to give a damn what the police and the monopoly of violence say. At the same time, we hear that some forty family-based criminal networks run and run the streets and squares. Mr President, I would like to The fact that this is even allowed to happen in Sweden in 2020 is amazing. It's outrageous. That is unacceptable. It is terrible and weak that so little is done to push this back. At this point we know Stefan Lövven's and the government's response to the criticism: We have never had as many police officers as we have now. We have made historic efforts, bigger than ever before. That is no longer good enough, Mr President. People are tired of these fantasies and of those who govern our country constantly referring to a reality that ordinary people cannot recognize. It is a fact that our Prime Minister and his allies – the left-wing liberal government of the country – still refuse to accept that this gang crime is highly imported, despite all the failures and broken promises, despite the fact that there is black on the white that an absolute majority of the gang criminals have a foreign background and despite all the clear facts. This is the result of irresponsible split policies for decades. Why don't you just tell me the truth? Is it supposed to be so hard to say what everyone else already knows? Is it supposed to be so hard to say we were wrong and we were wrong? Mr President, I would like to Now Stefan Löfven has stood in the speaker's chair year after year and claimed that it is time to crack the gangs. Only yesterday he repeated this – it is time to push back organised crime – in his seventh declaration of government and after six years as Prime Minister. What has really happened in these years? Murderers are still being put in youth homes. The gangs continue to recruit, not least among young people. Since Stefan Löfven took office, the number of cases of deadly violence in criminal conflicts has increased sharply. It has more than tripled in five years. So-called vulnerable areas are, of course, over-represented. It has now gone so far that the police even need police escorts in certain contexts. If we are to turn this around, it would be good to start by seeing reality and describing reality as it actually is. First of all, Mr President, we need to put an immediate stop to the continued import of crime. A halt to continued asylum-related immigration combined with a strongly strengthened expulsion policy is a top priority. Criminal foreigners do not have to do in Sweden. There should be extremely clear demands on what is accepted in our country and what is not accepted. We need to take a firm stance, Mr President. It requires politicians who dare to see the reality as it actually looks, politicians and leadership who really want law and order in our country and political leadership, Mr President, who understand what it takes to achieve law and order in our country.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-37	Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs a new economic start. We need a powerful injection into everything that builds our society stronger – in what gets our companies back on their feet and allows them to keep colleagues and hire new ones and in what allows us to reduce taxes while investing in welfare, but also in what allows us to put an end to the increasingly serious crime. The spiral of violence that robs people of life, freedom and security must be broken. The most fundamental task of the state, to guarantee security, must be restored throughout the country. We need to establish a clear but also wise plan for how to take Sweden forward through and out of the crisis. Too many companies have seen customers disappear, order books gap empty and revenues fall. Unemployment is rising to alarming levels, while more and more people are seeing their economic margins shrink. To meet this, we need to act decisively and decisively and find a balance between reducing the cost of hiring, financial relief for households and sensible public investment in all crucial areas. We in the Center Party want to see reduced employers' contributions for young people. It would strengthen businesses, face youth unemployment, which has now skyrocketed in the wake of the crisis, and give more opportunities for a real fresh start. We also want to provide more people with financial security by reducing taxes on low and middle-income earners. Then more people can get away from the fears that the money will not last until the end of the month, while at the same time we get the wheels to spin again in the economy. It is a reform of freedom and a question of justice. We also know that it is possible to reduce taxes on jobs and businesses and, at the same time, manage to make vital investments in our society in the form of investments in health care, care for the elderly and school. That is something we will do in the budget that will be presented. Just a few days ago, the Center Party, together with the government and the Liberals, presented 20 billion in addition to municipalities and regions – an investment in the hardworking people who form the core of welfare, who are working day and night and who have pulled an extra heavy load over the past six months. But we also need to invest in other important parts that lift our country and make it stronger. We need to invest in the police and the rest of the judiciary and in their fight against crime that is becoming increasingly ruthless and brutal. We need to invest in a vibrant and competitive countryside where more and more people get faster and more stable broadband and where we continue to prioritise better roads and railways, which connect our country and make it easier to reconcile everyday life. We need to invest in our Swedish farmers by simplifying the green industries and clearly prioritising the rural programme. However, a political movement that wants to be taken seriously today also needs to be serious about climate policy. We therefore want to see a series of clear climate initiatives taking us forward in the green transition. We want to invest in the Swedish bioeconomy and in research and development that makes us the world leader in this area. We want to broaden the industrial environment, so that more companies get support in their efforts to reduce emissions. We want a new green deduction that makes it cheaper and easier for individuals to install, for example, solar cells or a charging pole for their electric car. We want to continue to develop the technology for negative emissions – it removes emissions and makes both Sweden and the world greener. At the same time, we must also bear in mind that the pandemic is far from over, that the most important thing right now is to keep the infection down, protect our weakest and protect every person's life. Responsible and capable leadership must cope with this and, at the same time, also have the ability to equip our country for the time that comes by laying the foundations for a real start to the Swedish economy, strengthening our entrepreneurs, giving them hope back, giving more people the chance to a job, lifting people out of economic unrest, increasing their freedom and investing wisely and effectively in everything that binds our country together and in what makes Sweden safer, greener, climate smart and more sustainable. In order to give Sweden the new start and security required, it is important to show clear leadership.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-43	Mr President, I would like to The other day the news came that the national tests at school may not be possible. Most of it seems to be classified at school. Schools are seen as any company. Basic tasks become business secrets. This is directly due to the fact that the same parties that protect the profits of large companies, such as school companies, do not want them to be subject to the principle of publicity. In all other countries, this would have been a bizarre and totally unreasonable piece of news – you can't make unlimited private profits from school activities. In Sweden we not only see how the privatisation of the school leads to the money leaking away – money that would have gone to students goes to something else. We also see how schools attract with joy certificates and how fraudsters and religious extremists try to take advantage of the system. But above all, we see how the privatised market school is the engine of segregation. Children no longer get the same chance at school. Sweden went from 100 years ago to being one of the most unequal societies to becoming one of the most equal. One key was the unitary school and the opening to higher education for all children. This, together with balanced incomes, active housing policies and good welfare, gave people freedom and opportunities. With increased school segregation, plans for market rents, precarious employment and cream files with private health insurance, this fine community contract is broken up. Everyone has to arrange for their own welfare. The very idea of helping each other when we need each other at best is threatened. We go from citizen to customer. Restoring this contract and restoring confidence in welfare is the great task of the Left. It requires that the interest in profit be removed from the welfare. It requires a coherent state school that gives every child the chance. Our second major task is the climate. The climate issue may seem complicated. But in a way it is simple: we have to phase out fossil fuels. When industry – SSAB in Luleå, Cementa in Slite – says that you want to do this, you should get all the support in the transition. But when you don't want to, politics has to stop. The fossil industry will not change itself. It is a political responsibility. Their profits lie in continuing to destroy our planet. As long as huge sums are spent on fossil investment, we are going the wrong way. That is what the battle for the condition of Preem in Lysekil is all about. These are the coal mines of this legislature. The Paris Agreement obliges countries to do their part. If development is authorised in Lysekil, we will not be able to do ours. When you don't do your own homework, it's hard to claim to be a global leader. That's what it's all about. The Covid crisis has shown many strengths and weaknesses in Swedish society. Two things have been demonstrated with great clarity. One is that it is not difficult to lay off people in Sweden. The second is that the trade unions always try to solve it in the best way for employees and businesses when the crisis comes. The system has proved to be effective in terms of the labour market. Yet the January parties want to break it. Yet they want to grind Swedish job security to dust for millions of employees. This would make it impossible for the trade unions to defend their members. This could lead to the dismissal of worn-out people who have worked for decades in workplaces there because they are less profitable. It would give more quiet, scared, workplaces. But it doesn't give more jobs. We know that from experience. Perhaps you can get rid of the worn out and bring in someone else instead. But that is not how it was supposed to work in the Swedish labour market. Now the parties are negotiating. I hope they succeed. If they do, they do so despite the threat that hangs over them with the investigation that was presented in June. What, then, is the real motive for weakening job security? It's not about the jobs, because it doesn't give a job. It is about weakening the trade union movement. It's about removing the arguments for being in the union when they can't defend you when you need it at best. We know what is happening in societies where union membership is declining. Inequality is increasing, and wage developments are getting worse. We will not give up on job security.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-55	Mr President, I would like to Hope is the last thing that leaves man. It is hope for justice, for the future, and for your children to have it better than you had it. It's many times what drives us humans. But hope can also be extinguished if justice is not done, such as when automatic fire kills a 12-year-old girl or when two young boys are kidnapped and tortured for a whole night. No one can deny that innocent people are being affected anymore. If Sweden is not to become a country of scared souls, the fight against crime must be central to the leadership of the country. You turn to the Prime Minister and expect leadership. What does the government intend to do? Now the Prime Minister says that what is happening is unacceptable, as he has said so many times before. That's what he said after the restaurant murders in 2015, when the shootings escalated in 2017 and after the murder of Karolin Hakim in 2019. But throughout this period Stefan Löfven has been the leader of Sweden. It's like he doesn't understand what his favorite word means. It is when something is, it is acceptable, that it is allowed to continue, but when something is unacceptable, you do something about it. The truth is that this government has not given priority to the fight against crime. Since 2014, we have gathered in this House a majority for 78 proposals that could reverse the trend. We have urged the government to give the judiciary the tools it needs. But nothing has become real. In front of the Adrianal teams! You have taken on the responsibility of leading Sweden. Then you can't duck for the new crime. What is the reason for the government's inaction? Is it unwillingness, inability or ignorance? Everywhere people wonder, ‘ Why don't they take action? ' I don't think it's malicious. Of course, Stefan Löfven does not mean any harm. But leadership is failing. The January parties are divided, confused and negotiated. They are locked by the fighting between S and MP, by the 73 points of the January Agreement and by their own factions. What is more telling than that only two out of four party leaders were in place and two were missing when the January parties the other day were going to present new grants to the municipalities? Only a new government can give Sweden a new leadership. It is in many areas that we need new leadership. Before the summer, with each individual party leader, I highlighted the situation for the health care staff and that they now need relief and vacation. The answer was lukewarm. When the pandemic did not escalate over the summer, many believed that the danger was over. But even before the pandemic, the care queues were record-long. Now we have 153 000 patients who have been waiting illegally for a long time to receive the care they need. Women with diagnosed breast cancer are told that they have to wait. At the same time, staff resign from exhaustion. Why isn't the government acting? Where's the leadership? Where is the leadership when Swedish unemployment shoots at the ceiling? You all remember the promise of the Lövven. In the run-up to his first election, he promised Europe's lowest unemployment. Today, however, Sweden is competing instead with countries such as Spain and Greece for a seat in the fight for the EU's highest unemployment. What happened to the promise? What happened to leadership? What is our task, then, as Members of Parliament? That's solving the big problems. What is it worth discussing new RUT deductions when the new crime threatens security? What is it worth discussing marginal changes in labour law when the care queues are all-time-high? What is it worth discussing small changes in new production rents when Sweden is now falling to the bottom of the unemployment league? Members of Parliament! What are you waiting for? What is your excuse for not dismissing this government and not introducing the Adriana laws? What is it you do worth if people are not safe and cannot trust Sweden? What are you waiting for?
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-66	Mr President, I would like to Gang and clan crime kills our daughters, crushes life chances for our sons and threatens to seriously undermine the Swedish rule of law. If this crime is to be broken, action must be taken on a broad front in at least three major policy areas. It is about migration, integration and the Swedish justice policy. The Liberals participated in the six-party agreement on a tight migration policy five years ago. We now need new long-term legislation with the same focus. It is therefore sad that we were unable to reach an agreement on a new migration policy this summer. It is a policy area that for decades has created mistrust and deep political division in Sweden. It is unreasonable for the Green Party to veto a realistic migration policy, and for a settlement to be long-term, both the Social Democrats and the Moderates must be included. People remember the Alliance's deal with the Green Party. Everyone remembers how Stefan Löfven built on this when he would not build any walls. We remember the previous call of the Moderates to open our hearts. If Sweden is to become credible after all political patchwork, we must gather around a long-term and legally secure policy. I therefore repeat Mr Sabunis's request from this summer: let us go back to the negotiating table. The Liberals are, of course, prepared to take part in a compromise with the Moderates and the Social Democrats on the basis of positions now given, and perhaps more parties can participate. It would be strange if this particular issue triggered a major government crisis, as there is such a clear majority in this House in favour of a tighter line. Mr President, I would like to I was involved in presenting the People's Party's integration programme at the time in 2002. We presented efforts against honour oppression, language requirements for citizenship, efforts for knowledge school and greater opportunities to work instead of living on grants. Part of this is now becoming a reality. More people should be able to be convicted and expelled for honor-related crimes. Language requirements are introduced and school nationalisation is being prepared. But Sweden must continue to develop integration policies. That is why we are modernising labour law. It's at work we give people real empowerment. We do this so that more people can be hired and skills developed and that people who train, change jobs or choose to try being self-employed for some time should not consistently be given less security as employees. Integration requires success in school for more people. Here we have liberal proposals for knowledge school and language preschool, for reading for everyone, and for a better work peace for Sweden's teachers. Our vulnerable areas need to see a Marshall Plane suburban lift. It is about everything from housing to other social policies across the board, and for many years to come. Mr President, I would like to Liberals prioritise efforts on the judiciary in every budget negotiation in any government we are part of or, as we are now, governments we are cooperating with. Unfortunately, we have not always come all the way. But in the face of killings, shootings, roadblocks, explosions, arsons, kidnappings and robberies, in the face of all this, surrender is no alternative. The police's bet on Rimfrost must be replaced by a bet on a permafrost. Anyone who kills, desecrates or robs should not be confronted with anything other than the resistance of society as a whole. We must strengthen the rule of law at a faster pace. There must be at least 5,000 more police officers than the ones we have today. In the end, there must be enough detention centres and prisons. And I have said it before: It is time for the government to start the cement mixers to build more prisons, and today one might add that it will happen in Sweden. We must ensure that we interrupt young people's criminal careers early, while at the same time we need repressively and for too long to lock up and rehabilitate serious criminals who have chosen crime as a lifestyle. There must be a cost to security. The rule of law is a liberal core function and the basis of the social contract under our constitution. The rule of law is crucial for Sweden of opportunity, for our daughters, for our sons and for all people in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The state of law must be restored. That is the foundation of freedom in Sweden.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-80	Mr President, I would like to It is now two years before the next parliamentary elections. I think about it a lot, and I think there are many people in this House who think about it a lot. There is nothing strange about that; these are the rules of democracy. At the same time, I wish we could think more of tomorrow's world than of tomorrow's election movement. We are currently living in three ongoing global crises. It is the Corona crisis and the climate crisis – and so there is the crisis of democracy, that is, the fact that freedom of expression is curtailed, as is the independence of courts, and oppositionists are murdered in countries close to us. Trollfactories and power-hungry populists are constantly pumping out the messages that democracies like Sweden are collapsing, that ordinary politicians are bad, that the people are going to draw the swamp and that those who instead step forward with triumphant smiles are so-called strong leaders. Democracy has its weaknesses. There may be unclear compromises. It may take time to get everyone on the boat. It may seem incomprehensible to those with knowledge why nothing happens when everyone knows what to do. But I am afraid that people today who have the privilege of living in a democracy have not thought through what is the alternative. If we look in the history books, we see pages upside down with the names of so-called strong leaders who have led us to world wars, to genocide and to whole countries collapsing once the dictator is thrown by the throne. Democracy has beauty spots. But as Winston Churchill said: It is the worst form of government that has been tried, apart from all other forms of governance that have been tried through time. Mr President, I would like to By this time two years ago it had been a few weeks since Greta Thunberg sat outside the Parliament building. Her school strike for the climate has now led millions of children and young people worldwide to claim their right – the right to a future without deadly hurricanes, heat waves, sea level rise, drought and torrential rain. The children require long-termness and action now. Since the first IPCC report came in 1990, the world has released more carbon dioxide than we had done overall before 1990. If the Corona crisis came surprisingly, no one can say that the climate crisis did. But power has always had other priorities; there has always been an election movement between them. I'm ashamed on behalf of all adults in front of our children. As we restart Sweden and the world after the Corona crisis, we must raise our eyes. We should have better care and care, we should have a safer and more humane society, we should fight crime and we must quickly expand out of our fossil dependence. But we also need to focus on the third crisis: the crisis of democracy. We need to open up to a debate on the responsibilities and opportunities we all have as citizens, because I am concerned that the generation that is growing up is losing hope of us adults and of politics as a tool for change. In the long run, it is a threat to democracy. Young people should feel that politics is not the problem, but the solution. I am convinced that young people's confidence in the political system would increase if they were allowed to participate in it. The Green Party wants to see a reduction in the voting age to 16 years. This would mean that the first-time voters on average are 18 years on election day and not as today, 20 years. To be included in democracy by voting and running in elections would also increase the chances of young people choosing party politics as a channel for their involvement rather than opting out of it as it is today. Is a 16-year-old mature enough to get into politics? Yes, there is much to suggest that it is our young people who have the ability to think long - term. When Britain voted on Brexit, it was the elderly who decided by a narrow majority on the future of the younger ones. Fridays for the F uture movement has demonstrated with all the clarity that children can take adult responsibility when adults cannot. Mr President, I would like to The world needs faith in the future today. Just as important as setting the course for a better society, it is that we do so together and with a sense of shared responsibility and opportunity.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-91	Mr President, I would like to The Corona crisis has been a brutal reminder that alone is not strong and that people are dependent on each other. I would say that what we have seen in these months is a fantastic display of solidarity. We want to do good. We want a task and a context. We want to be there for each other. However, the Corona crisis has also shown that our country needs to continue to renovate welfare and combat inequality. Society should be strong so that individuals do not have to be weak. Now we have a historic opportunity to do the things that both cause the wheels to roll and solve the societal problems that have been put in merciless lightning. It will require tough priorities. I do not believe that it is through cuts in welfare and security systems that we are getting the economy going; I do not believe in right-wing politics. I do not think it is through less in our wallets and less income security that we get more to work. I believe in creating new jobs. I believe in giving people opportunities to take the new jobs. I believe in renovating and building new roads, railways and housing. I believe in education. I believe in strengthening welfare, and I think we can have the best care for the elderly in the world. I believe in increasing the pace of climate change to strengthen Sweden's endurance, but also our competitiveness, and create new green jobs. I believe in establishing security in streets and squares through more police and prevention. What has long taken root will take time to eradicate, but we will. We're gonna pick it up with the roots. I believe in solidarity. I believe that Sweden will work its way out of the crisis.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-94	Mr President, I would like to In 2017, Denmark implemented a large gang package to combat serious organised crime. This was done under the leadership of my party leader, who was then Denmark's Minister of Justice, Søren Pape Poulsen. In broad agreement, the necessary Danish reforms were implemented. Tomorrow, Søren Pape will be here on my invitation. At a seminar he will describe in detail what Denmark has done. And tomorrow at 8:30 Ebba Busch and I will have lunch with Søren Pape here in Parliament. If Stefan Löfven is both curious and hungry, I will set up an extra chair and an extra portion, because what Denmark could do can also Sweden do. Welcome!
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-96	Mr President, I would like to Now the Moderates aren't exactly good at making broad agreements. I have a number of examples where the Moderates have withdrawn from agreements or have not wanted to be in agreements. I'll think about the offer. If it is pancake and pea soup, I am easily flirted, but we also have that in the Government Office. We're gonna break the gang crime. We have to do it, but we have to do it together. It is hard here and now, and that is why, in my view, it is good that we have now doubled police training. That's the right direction. It must be good that we have 50 sentences that are now tougher. It must be right that we have 20 new crimes. It must be right that we have defector programs for those who want them to. All of this belongs to the harsh side. But it must also be right to work on the preventive side. What the police are telling us now is, we can't do this on our own. We must have a whole community. I think we should think about that further.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-100	Mr President, I would like to The food itself can be discussed. Please report allergies and other requests to my assistant. But seriously, why was there no agreement with you last year? Because you didn't want to do the things we asked for. You did not want to do in Sweden what your own party friends have been prepared to do in Denmark. You said no to double penalties for gang criminals, no to search zones, no to anonymous witnesses, no to all the really difficult things that Denmark has done and many are now calling for. The chief of police said, look at Denmark! Look at Germany too! Look at Baltimore! In the 1980s, many people looked at why New York City managed to reverse a terrible development. You can do that. It is difficult, I admit, but it is possible – if you want to, if you decide, if you are prepared to make the necessary decisions. It wasn't you, and that's why there was no deal.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-103	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to agreements at first, it is not just this that the Moderates have not been able to cope with. You got out of the energy agreement, which would be long-term, after two three years. It's not very long-term. You were unable to reach an agreement on migration policy. You couldn't stand an agreement on the defense. So talk about agreements, but then you have to give and take. It is easy to say: we have the right policy; only you do as we say will this be good. Everyone can say that in this room. That's the easiest thing to do. It is harder to sit down and settle, to say: There is actually something even in you that we can think of doing. Let's look at Denmark. We don't have a problem with that. In Denmark, there are some things that are better, but we also have some, for example, in the area of life, which is stronger and tougher than in Denmark. We like to look at Denmark, but we need to look wider. The important thing here and now is that the Moderates have a blind spot, and it is on the other side: How do we prevent young people from entering crime? We'll spend as much time on that.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-106	Mr President, I would like to As late as Monday, in connection with Stefan Lövven's and Annie Lööf's press conference, we noticed that Stefan Löfven does not see any connection between gross criminal foreign networks in Sweden and Sweden's migration policy. In principle, the whole world, Mr President, makes a different analysis. My rather simple question to the Prime Minister is this: Why does Sweden's Prime Minister Stefan Löfven have such terrible difficulties in recognising the link between large immigration and growing crime?
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-108	Mr President, I would like to I replied only yesterday to a journalist's question about just that. With a large migration where we cannot cope with integration, there is also a greater risk of the kind of problems that we see. It's crystal clear. What I want to avoid, and here we should be extremely careful, is to automatically link crime to skin color, religion or something else. We have to keep that gangway tight. That is why we now need to invest more in people's ability to enter society. It therefore becomes incomprehensible that the Swedish Democrats always vote for right-wing budgets where there will be less education opportunities for people who will enter the labour market. That's not how you help people. It is clear that integration is A and O. That is why the January parties are now taking hold of integration so that we can ensure that people enter society.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-111	Mr President, I would like to A study from Lund University reveals the following: 79 percent in criminal networks have a foreign background. 85% of street gangs have foreign backgrounds. I do not know anyone, Mr President, at least not in this House, who links skin colour with crime, or for that matter religion with gang crime. It has nothing to do with each other at all. I do not know that there is such an argument. There is a clear link between irresponsible migration policies, failed integration and increasing crime in immigrant areas of our country. I have not heard the Prime Minister make that connection and say that he has his own responsibility for this, with his Europe that does not build walls and so on. Instead, we got this. I want to hear Stefan Löfven take responsibility and say: I was wrong.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-114	Mr President, I would like to Let me remind Jimmie Åkesson that it was the government that I led that laid down migration policy. The previous rules on migration were introduced in 2009, I think, or at least decided at that time. We changed them. We're not going back to the situation we had in 2015. We are now working on new legislation to replace it temporarily. That's the first thing I want to say. The second is that integration is A and O. There is no doubt about that. But in the previous party leader debate here in the Swedish parliament, I think, I asked Jimmie Åkesson if he could see that there are actually people from other countries who are making good contributions to our welfare. Yes, Jimmie Åkesson replied. All right, then let's settle it. Of course, there are also those who come to our country who commit crimes, and they are going to prison – or whatever punishment they are going to have – just like everyone else. You can't get away with having any other background. Everyone who commits crimes in Sweden will pay them and serve their sentences – everyone!
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-117	Mr President, I would like to Broken padlocks on the workshop door. Missing tools and machines. Diesel hosed during the night from the machine hall. A drug-affected man who wanders around Klimpfjällsgården. Theft at the grocery store. Homes plundered of valuables. Around our Swedish countryside there are thefts for billions every year. Thefts strike quickly and disappear without a trace. Single burglaries tear open wounds and anger. Large geographical areas, not least in the interior of Norrland, and few police forces make it difficult to act with real force against crime. The police won't send a car because it's too far away. It can't go on like that. The social contract must apply to everyone, regardless of whether you live in the suburbs of the big cities or in the Swedish sparsely populated and rural areas.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-121	Mr President, I would like to Yes, what Annie Lööf describes is a known and major problem, and that is why we have taken hold of it. That's why we have more cops out there now. We've never had more cops than we have now. They are employed not only in the big cities but also around our country. And that's why the penalty rates have been raised, as I've told you. That is also why the authorities are working together in a different way now. The Police Authority, together with other authorities, such as the Coast Guard, will make it more difficult to remove stolen goods from our country. Therefore, in parts of our country, too, we can see an improvement — a reduction in thefts and burglaries. We will have to keep doing more, because people should feel safe no matter where they live. But the police, together with other authorities in collaboration, have great opportunities to do more and will do more. If the police need more resources, we're prepared to deploy them. Breaking and entering will stop.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-124	Mr President, I would like to I have no doubt about the Prime Minister's ambition to strengthen security throughout the country. But we see what it looks like, and I hear distress calls from both entrepreneurs and individuals about the very problems I raise. That's not enough. It's an undergrad that a police car can arrive ten hours after a rape, assault or burglary. Too much of our country today has far too far to the nearest police station. Increased resources for the police and justice system are absolutely necessary and something that we obviously support. But I also think we need to have a plan for the good of the whole country in our leadership. Today many senders are left to their fate. What is the concrete plan, not just to get more policemen, but to increase police presence in rural and rural areas so that you can feel safe, no matter where you live?
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-127	Mr President, I would like to It was good that there were proposals there at the end, because that's how we have to work. What proposals do we have? We believe that more police officers are an important part of the solution. That's why we've doubled police training and have more police officers than ever. But I also believe that it is the Police Authority that can best answer how the distribution is to be done. They need cops, but they also need investigators to investigate crimes. And where are the cops supposed to be? Actually, I don't think Annie Lööf or I will be in charge. That was the very point of forming an authority – that the Police Authority should be allowed to control the resources. The purpose of the addition, both in terms of money and number of police officers, was for us to have more police close. So the constant question to the Police Authority is, of course: How do we ensure that we have more police close, whether it is in Stockholm suburbs, in southern Sweden or in the interior of Norrland, where I myself grew up?
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-130	Mr President, Prime Minister Löfven. Just before the summer, the LAS investigation on job security was completed. Municipal chairman Tobias Baudin called it a disaster investigation. Building Chairman Johan Lindholm spoke of an extremely strong list in the employer's favour so that the investigation might as well have been an order job from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. Marie Nilsson from IF Metall said that the proposals would significantly reduce the security of her members and that the investigation belongs in an archive, not in politics. When the inquiry was presented, both the Minister for Labour and the Prime Minister indicated that the proposals were unbalanced and not acceptable; that was not what was expected. Can the Prime Minister state clearly here that the government will never present a legislative proposal that looks like the LAS investigation, if the parties do not agree?
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-133	Mr President, I would like to First, let's zoom out a little bit. Today's employment protection law is not perfect – even trade unions do not think so. Many people want a change, because the Employment Protection Act does not work as it was intended in today's labour market. Not least women-dominated sectors want a change. Not least the Hotel and Restaurant Trade Union and Handels have pushed LO to get to a negotiation because they want to change the law on employment protection. It's not good enough. So we should not see it as a matter of keeping everything exactly as it was. What we saw in front of us – and that is why we entered this in the January agreement – was that, if you are going to change laws, you should maintain the balance of the parties. This is extremely important, because it is this balance between the parties that takes Sweden forward and makes us actually at the absolute forefront of the world when it comes to changing the whole labour market. So it's supposed to be here. Now we let the parties negotiate, and then we take this.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-135	Mr President, I would like to I regret that Stefan Löfven cannot answer this very fundamental question. In June, it seemed clear: this was one-sided – it was not acceptable. Today, the Prime Minister cannot rule out the presentation of a legislative proposal that was made by the investigation's extreme proposal. I agree that LAS is not perfect. Let the parties negotiate in peace, without threat. Job security needs to be improved in Sweden, not demolished. However, I would like to return to my question. Can the Prime Minister promise that this government will not present legislative proposals that look like the investigation's proposal, which would have such serious negative effects on the employment security of millions of employees in Sweden?
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-138	Mr President, I would like to Let me make this clear. What I said in early summer is still valid. We shall have a balance between the parties. But what Jonas Sjöstedt should also think about, I think, is his cooperation with the right, which really wants to change the law on employment protection, which wants to reintroduce lex Laval, which removes the right of trade unions to fight for their collective agreements, which want to prevent and weaken conflict opportunities and the rules of conflict further and which have a number of other proposals. They sit down with Jonas Sjöstedt at regular intervals and think about how to mess with the government. Think about it, Jonas Sjöstedt, the next time you sit down with them!
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-140	Mr President, I would like to Last weekend Mats Löfving, head of the police's national operational department, told us that in Sweden there are about forty criminal, family-based networks, so-called clans. According to Löfving, several of these clans have gone to Sweden specifically to commit crimes – to establish mafia activities. In these clans the individual is undervalued. Individual family members are allowed to act as peasant sacrifices, and marriages are arranged to strengthen family ties. According to Löfving, they are not interested in being integrated into Sweden. My question to the Prime Minister today is how he believes that it is best possible to work preventively to prevent foreign clan mafia choosing to establish itself in Sweden.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-142	Mr President, I would like to An obvious tool is, of course, international cooperation – that the Swedish police, together with Europol and others, have an eye on who is moving in Europe, for example. That's the instant. There is obvious what you might call clans or families, or if you have any other label on it. Some came here in the '80s. Unfortunately, they have developed this crime for generations. But there are also other people who have come to Sweden, who want to do the right thing and have the opportunity to come in. When I was in Uppsala I met a little girl who came up to me and said: Can you arrange a larger apartment? I need to sit down and read and study. It was her wish. This is about acting hard against the crimes, no matter who commits them – clans or families or anyone else. But it must also be about working preventively so that we help these children and young people into society so that they can realise their dreams instead of becoming criminals.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-146	Mr President, I would like to I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that international cooperation is incredibly important and crucial. But then it gets a little weird. Some of the criminal networks and clans have been here a long time, but many have gone to Sweden because they feel that there is a song-go mentality here. This is where you can act like it. You can choose to control a residential area without serious consequences. Greater housing for these clans and these families will only facilitate their criminal activities. I am happy to talk about prevention, but what I would have liked the Prime Minister to talk about is justice – justice is being done and criminals are being held behind bars. Why are you not prepared to introduce the Adriana laws, so that we can have more tools in the fight against criminals and in order to prevent young people from inheriting crime?
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-148	Mr President, I would like to We are fully aware of the need to be tough on criminals, crime, organised crime and gang crime. There's no difference. But if we have more policemen than ever in Sweden, is it not a development that goes in the right direction? We want more cops, don't we? If we have 50 penalties, that's also going in the right direction, because that's what we want, isn't it? And 20 new crimes are also what we wanted. There's a deal. We're full in the prisons. Many of the gang criminals and leaders are in prison. The problem is that there are as many people who want to be new leaders and who want to take over. Then another job is required. Young people should see their parents go to work. They're supposed to want to go to school and become something. The school should be there. School's supposed to be equal. The work of social services and others must be done. That's where we have to help each other.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-151	Mr President, I would like to I drink my hands – it was otherwise a while since we had spirits at the podiums in the Riksdag. It was another time, and there were other parties sitting here then. I have a question for Prime Minister Stefan Löfven. This is about gangs, clans or organised crime... call it what you want. They engage in drug sales, extortion, robbery, blasting, murder, and killing. But they also come here and use the system. They milk our municipalities, regions and the state, such as the Education Council and study associations, on all kinds of grants and benefits. Yesterday we heard about charges in a CSN harrow, where people had pumped the system for money to find trainings of an extremist nature. What does the Prime Minister intend to do about this, and when can we expect a change? We're not giving money away to criminals or crazy extremists.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-154	Mr President, I would like to I fully share a view. The support of society in these cases is, of course, intended to strengthen democracy, freedom of expression and people's participation in democracy. That is what the support is for. Society's support is not for extremists. That is why we have also given the authorities the task of reviewing this, because we are not going to give money to these organisations. There are abuses of such support related to studies and democratic work, but there are also abuses of the Social Insurance Fund's various benefits. A broad range of work is needed here, and the Minister for Finance is in full swing to ensure that the tax money to be spent in support of various forms is not misused. The money should not go to extremists or to financial crime.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-157	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your time. It is the Liberals' firm position that we can cut or completely remove the confidentiality rules for persons convicted of crime. They have forfeited their right to privacy, so to speak. When applying for a grant or otherwise benefiting from public benefits, it must be checked. Society has been pretty bad at this. As far as extremism is concerned, the way in which the system has been used has been rolled up today. This has been warned. There is a unit within Brå, the Centre against Violent Extremism, which should really get the chance to go through and make sure that there are no finder's courses or finder's contributions that go to all sorts of organizations. It may be ethnic associations or activities of a religious nature that only serve to fertilise and create extremism. No one is opposed to religion, but we cannot in this way fatten activities that have the idea of destroying Swedish democracy, for example.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-159	Mr President, I would like to I think it is absolutely necessary to discuss, for example, the confidentiality rules. It is also possible to review the management of existing confidentiality rules, because perhaps more opportunities are being offered here and now than we think. However, I am also open to looking at whether the rules need to be changed, so that authorities can work together to avoid financial crime and that extremist organisations can benefit from the money. The money should go to democracy, to people's participation in democracy, to people's education and to a stronger society. It should not go to extremism, and then we will probably have to review both one and two tools to get there. There we are in complete agreement.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-161	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats have been running Sweden for six years. I am not in favour of nostalgia, but it is time to ask: Is Sweden a better or worse country today than it was six years ago? The answer either leads to the conclusion that you should only continue as at present or to the conclusion that it is time to change course. Over the last six years, unemployment and insecurity have increased. It also has the tax burden, length of care queues and integration problems. The population has also increased. In fact, Sweden does not even know who lives in the country. We don't know how many people live here, whether they live where they say they live or where else they live. This leads to overcrowding and fraud of subsidies, and it opens the door to criminals with dual identities. A few months ago it was discovered that Iraq's Minister for Defence received housing allowance in Sweden. Recently, a senior government official in Afghanistan had received parental allowance in Sweden. The Swedish Tax Agency points out that 200 000 people can be registered at the wrong address – this has hardly been done by mistake. This is not good enough in a country where benefits and benefits presuppose that you live here and are expected to work and pay taxes here. Several parties have called for a new, real census, now also the Liberals and heavy Social Democratic councillors. The last one was implemented in 1990. The Moderates will therefore present a concrete proposal in the Parliament's Tax Committee for a new census. The votes of the Social Democrats decide whether the decision is yes or no. The question now is whether the Social Democrats in Parliament are prepared to take the decision that the Social Democrats in the government cannot or do not want to take. In just a few seconds, we can get the answer.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-166	Mr President, I would like to The answer is yes. I also see the need to review the conditions for a census. It shall be done correctly in that case. It must be prepared properly. One should not think, however, that it solves the problems here and now. It's not a quick fix, it's gonna take its time. But we need to keep an eye on the population of the country, who lives where and so on. The Corona crisis is not over. The readiness for it to become more is still high. But we must fight unemployment. For us, it is important to ensure that we have public investment and public consumption. Everyone says that's where the jobs first come. We want to keep hiring. We have so far employed 100 000 more people in the public sector. Now the question is whether Ulf Kristersson is also prepared to continue going this way: hire more in the public sector – nurses, nurses, teachers and whatever it may be.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-169	Mr President, I would like to Should I interpret the Prime Minister's first answer as a government decision to make a proper census, or should I interpret it as supporting the proposal that we put forward in Parliament? It's pretty important. Because we know what we want us to do. So far, you haven't known what you want you to do. Then there is the labour market. So we have Europe's fifth highest unemployment rate right now. The Prime Minister's promise to the Swedish people was that we would have Europe's lowest unemployment. What we did for quite a few years was that we systematically ran the work line in Swedish politics. Everyone who can work is going to work. What you have done as systematically as you have done is to ensure that people who can work do not work but live on grants. That's the way I'll never go back to.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-171	Mr President, I would like to That's what the man who is probably Swedish champion in the increase of social security benefits said. This happened during Ulf Kristersson's time. We had a dramatic increase in financial aid. Maybe you could talk about black belt. This happened during Ulf Kristersson's time, and it happened because people were deprived of their right to move on to the labour market. If you do not have enough training opportunities and if you become unemployed and receive a poor unemployment benefit, and if you are denied further training, you will remain in unemployment. Sweden has the highest employment rate across the EU. When we set the unemployment target, we said: Working hours and employment are the deciding factors. Then we have the highest level of employment. Ulf Kristersson wants to see a situation that exists in countries where people leave the labour force because they see no chance of looking for a job. Well, then unemployment is falling. We want people to remain in the workforce and make sure they get to work. That's the difference.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-174	Mr President, I would like to It's pretty incredible. The Prime Minister boasts that we have Europe's fifth highest unemployment rate. He probably also boasts that we have a huge unemployment among people who do not speak Swedish and who have come here quite recently, as if it were a success, because so many people want to work. The Prime Minister's pre-representative, Göran Persson, coined the concept of the halving target for Swedish sick absence. We had twice as high and twice as long sick absence in Sweden as we should have. He realized the problem. We did something about the problem. It honors him that he understood what the problem was. We made sure that the work line was reintroduced into Swedish politics. You should think about that, too.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-176	Mr President, I would like to During the spring we have seen a spirit of consensus grow in Swedish politics, something that the Moderates have contributed to. During the crisis, they have taken responsibility, been prepared to cooperate and push for support for our companies, reduced corporate taxes and efforts for jobs and businesses. I'm glad. The constructive spirit has been both positive and good for Sweden. But that was not quite the case last winter. At that time, the Moderates chose to join forces with the Left Party to increase taxes on jobs and companies by making the proposal that was then on the Riksdag's table for reduced social security contributions. Otherwise, that proposal would have come into force this summer and helped many crisis-stricken companies that are now calling for this – reducing the cost of combating unemployment. With the facts in mind, I was going to give Ulf Kristersson the chance to give his opinion on that decision. I think: It must surely be that Ulf Kristersson regrets that he stopped the tax cut for the country's entrepreneurs that they are calling for right now.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-179	Mr President, I would like to We can start with consensus and cooperation. I am strongly in favour of working together through crises for the country – seriously. That is why I said time and again that they are working together through the crisis. One helps – parliament and government, government and opposition. That's exactly what we did. We needed to make decisions that required both government and parliament involvement, and I believed in those decisions. When I did not believe in the decisions, I made other proposals in this House – sometimes with the Swedish Democrats, the Left Party and others – and ran over a government that was too slow or a government that prioritised wrong. It was a government that then did not realize that the money was needed urgently for the welfare, so we changed the government's decision. The government taught one more thing. If you are in a minority, there are good reasons to have some respect for the fact that it is the parliament that is in charge of the government, not the government that is in charge of the parliament.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-181	Mr President, I would like to It was done at the expense of young people's jobs and critical companies. I am actually somewhat surprised that Ulf Kristersson does not regret the decision. As a political leader, one must be able to deal with several societal problems at the same time. It is about both combating crime and combating unemployment, as Ulf Kristersson said at the outset. This applies not least now that youth unemployment is the highest in 20 years, when our service companies are on their knees and when companies across the country and industry organisations by industry organisation, led by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, raise precisely reduced employers' contributions as an important part of getting more young people into work. The fact that this policy is ineffective is not in line with existing research. The fact that there is something that can be prioritised away in order to snap the government's nose does not belong in responsible leadership. When Ulf Kristersson now sees the situation during the summer, I wonder if he really still thinks it was right to stop a bourgeois effective job policy that would have strengthened our companies and given more young jobs.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-184	Mr President, I would like to So it is we, not the government and the cooperation parties, who have pushed forward the great support in terms of entrepreneurship during the crisis. It is we who have taken the initiative and gathered a majority. We can talk to everyone in Parliament – don't miss that detail! We pushed this forward. The government got along, and we got along. That's how serious politics works. I am not ashamed for a moment that we took the initiative last autumn when the municipalities needed more money and because we wanted to prioritise better than you did. There is one more detail in this. When you have an agreement as a minority, which lacks support in the Swedish parliament, you cannot trump through things that do not have support in the Swedish parliament. That lesson is now starting to rise for more and more people. It's the Riksdag that decides. The government is expected to seek support in the Riksdag for proposals, if they want them through. Otherwise, the Riksdag will take over responsibility. No, I'd be happy to stand by that decision. The welfare needed more money. The government and the co-operative parties did not give that money back then.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-188	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Kristersson! The Moderates are in opposition in the Riksdag but govern large parts of Sweden. The most populous area governed by Moderates is Region Stockholm. This is where we can see how it would be with the Moderates in power. We know that those who work in healthcare in Stockholm have had an enormous strain this year. They've been working hard. They've been working overtime. Here the epicentres of the pandemic in Sweden have been. Here comes the thanks. Hundreds will be dismissed. Nurses and doctors should be allowed to leave their jobs. There is money for consultants for Nya Karolinska. There's money for renters. There is money for cost-driven care choices. But there is no money for nurses and doctors who have worked for a long time for a functioning health care. What is Ulf Kristersson's message to those who will now be dismissed in the healthcare system in Stockholm?
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-192	I would remind you that the debate is taking place in this House and not in the Stockholm Regional Council.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-193	Mr President, I would like to It would be strange for me to review the President, but I agree with the President. Jonas Sjöstedt has a certain difficulty in discussing decisions taken in municipalities and regions in this House. But the same Jonas Sjöstedt is happy to avoid discussing decisions that can only be taken at national level and that would help municipalities and regions. I find that incomprehensible. I fully trust Stockholm to be able to handle Stockholm's tasks. In fact, I also trust that representatives of Skåne and Västra Göta-land and other municipal and regional representatives are wise people who make wise decisions for their regions – I sometimes do that even though they do not have my party colour. I am convinced that during the last six months very many Swedes have gained a great deal of respect for Swedish healthcare, whether it is in Stockholm or elsewhere. It is about the ability to quickly switch up, to save lives, to reset IVA sites and to do all that only healthcare can do. I find general whining about Swedish health care to be deeply unfair. I am convinced that Stockholm will continue to manage its responsibilities very well.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-196	Mr President, I would like to If I had been moderate, I would not have wanted to talk about regional policy in Stockholm either. I see why. But this is not just a local or regional issue. This is where the center was for the whole epidemic. This is where people worked weekends on weekends. This is where they worked 60 hours a week. This is where you didn't see your family, because you went in and worked in covid care. I think it is a mockery to lay off staff who have worked so hard while the money leaks off to hire doctors, privatisations and other things. We stood here, all the party leaders, and said that we should not only thank those who work in health care – they are also worth more colleagues and better working conditions. But when we're there and they get their layoffs, the Moderates don't want to talk about that reality. Mr President, I would like to I want to talk about this reality, because it is the moderate policy in Stockholm and in Sweden.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-200	Mr President, I would like to I'm very happy to talk about Swedish healthcare. Jonas Sjöstedt has probably in almost every party leader debate that we have wanted to discuss New Karolinska, preferably in very disparaging terms. Over the past six months, however, there have been quite few derogatory views on the health care system in Stockholm, just where the epicentre of the pandemic was, because everyone thinks they did a fantastic job. Instead of the constant whining and misfinnery when we have really big problems in Swedish healthcare that can only be solved nationally – getting rid of the healthcare queues, for example – let's talk about the decisions we can make here in the Swedish parliament to help hardworking doctors, nurses, nurses and local politicians!
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-202	Mr President, I would like to Liberals like the idea of working broadly, preferably across borders, and finding solutions here in the Riksdag to various social problems. I would therefore like to ask Ulf Kristersson about the school and the importance of a more equal school across the country. So I am thinking of a state school and the importance of primary government responsibility. I was in Gårdsten the other day. A school there has had 18 principals in 21 years. You have very low results when it comes to completing comprehensive school with passed grades. Of course it will not be a great journey for the young people. Right now, it is only the Swedish Democrats, the Left Party and the Liberals – a beautiful constellation – who think it would be good to nationalize the school, even if we are now going to investigate it in government cooperation. Can Ulf Kristersson think of reconsidering this and behind the Teacher Association, the National Federation of Teachers and the Liberals?
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-205	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that I very much respect your company on this issue. I may not think like Johan Pehrson in principle, but I think that you should do exactly what your heart says and cooperate with others who feel the same way. Wise! On the substance of the matter, I am a little more doubtful. I am a little fascinated by the enormous interest in the main issue itself. Are we going to have a state school, or are we going to have a municipal school? I want a good school, where you learn, where there is order and where new generations get new chances. This is my focus. I am not at all convinced that a major organisational change is the answer to the Swedish school problem. I am even less convinced that the last few days have followed the hugely fascinating debate on the university test. Now a decision has been taken on a new state. It is a professional title that I didn't even know existed – state university test coordinator. The state thus owns the decision whether we should have a university test or not, and the municipalities provide premises. But the state cannot make the decision. Strange!
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-209	Mr President, I would like to Liberals are clear: we are doing everything we can to ensure that at least one form of university test can be done as early as this autumn. But we do not have ministerial government in Sweden, not under this government, nor under any previous government where liberals and Moderates have entered. There was a wall of principals in the way that said no, no, it can't. At the same time, we see pictures from Afghanistan and all kinds of parts of the world where knowledge-thirsty people take all kinds of entrance exams to get in. Of course we can in Sweden too. Let's see what the new title can do. This is how we govern Sweden: through decisions that are then carried out by government managers. And then you have to have the principals with you, even if they're murmuring right now. We are, of course, in favour of better governance on the part of the state, because it is so different in our country. It is unfair when children in smaller municipalities receive less resources, whether they are free schools or municipal schools. We need better governance to ensure that young people have a future. We must raise the floor of the Swedish school and remove the roof to strengthen Sweden's students.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-212	Mr President, I would like to In essence, I absolutely share that description of the problem. I just said that I don't feel sure that we're going to launch a gigantic organisational change to solve the Swedish school's problems. I did not make the comparison with the university test by chance, but because even when the state has the full decision-making mandate, it does not manage to make the decisions. This was a travesty! The government gives a tip. The agency thanks for the tip but says it can't be done. I thought it was the government authorities, not the government. This doesn't impress me. The lack of ability to make decisions and decide the direction of travel does not impress. Unfortunately, I think that quite a lot of municipalities today are more skilled at leading their municipalities than the government is in leading the state.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-215	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday came the news that the melting of the polar ice caps is in line with the IPCC's worst-case scenario. What does that mean? Well, it means that the sea level is likely to rise so sharply in this century that entire countries and cities are threatened worldwide. Every responsible person must now do his utmost to prevent this from happening. Yet I did not hear a single word in Ulf Kristersson's speech on the climate. What do the Moderates want to do to save our climate? I wonder, because you are against all the policies that we put forward. The industrial life, which has enabled the steel industry's fossil-free technological leaps, you were against. The airline tax you were against. You were opposed to climate change. The system of making it cheaper to buy electric cars and more expensive to buy the release cars was against you. My question to Ulf Kristersson is: when will the Moderates take the climate challenge seriously?
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-219	Mr President, I would like to You don't have time to talk about everything important in seven minutes; it's probably both for me and Isabella Lövin. Anyone who read the paper yesterday morning could read a rather comprehensive article in which I and our environmental policy spokesperson described what we are doing in Sweden precisely to contribute globally to solving the climate crisis. That is precisely the question, which is what Sweden should do but which you do not do. That is also the answer to Isabella Lövin's question to me: We do not believe in your symbolic policy. We want fossil freedom. And if you're going to have fossil freedom, you have to have other power generation to cope with electrification. Then you can't shut down nuclear power. If we want to replace fossil fuels with biofuels, we must have access to biofuels. Then you have to say yes and not no to Preem's big investment, because it contributes to more biofuels and lower climate emissions than if the same production were to take place elsewhere. You say no to things that allow Sweden to contribute globally to solving a genuine global issue.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-222	Mr President, I would like to Actually, I don't hear any answers from Ulf Kristersson. We know that investment in new nuclear power takes decades and is much more expensive. This is not commercially viable compared to renewable energy. What you are actively saying is that you want to reduce the CO2 tax, the instrument that all outside assessors, experts and our authorities say is the most effective way of reducing emissions. Preliminary figures for last year and the first quarter of this year show that emissions are coming down heavily in Sweden, thanks to the fact that we have removed subsidies for fossil fuels in the cogeneration sector, for example. But there's something you don't want to see. We have also reformed the EU ETS. So we see that we have to work with all the parts in order for us to have real effects. The revision of the ETS has led to the closure of coal power in Europe. It is also Sweden's policy.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-225	Mr President, I would like to Emissions are reduced when we shut down entire communities. It's not the way I want to reduce our carbon footprint. We cannot have pandemics to reduce emissions. Emissions are to be reduced because we stop using fossil fuels. Sweden will become fossil-free, and Sweden has excellent conditions with hydropower and nuclear power. I would like to build new nuclear power in the future, but if we do not start by closing it down, so that we do not have the huge problems of companies that do not even get electricity for the current operation, so that we can create the electrified fleet of vehicles we want, it would just be a good start. Today we import 85% of all biofuels, and biofuels are scarce. Preem could contribute to the Swedish supply of more biofuels. You will make a historic mistake if you force the government to say no to Preem in order to avoid a government crisis.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-228	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Löfven talks about preventive measures to tackle gang crime. Of course, the importance of that work should not be minimized. On the contrary, it is long-term and will bring about a better situation in the future. Language is a key. School's a key. The environment where you grow up is a key. Family, friends who succeed, older former criminals who have a story to tell and so on are all keys to a more profound and far-reaching change. At the same time, Mr President, there are problems here and now that need to be pushed back. Those who are convicted must be severely punished. There must be an end to penalty rebates and short time offs in open prisons. There must be increased opportunities for secret coercive measures. The police should be able to listen to, monitor and control the organised criminals. The police will hunt, irritate, seize and mark points. To have a criminal lifestyle in Sweden should be difficult – really, really hard. Mr President, I would like to We need a policy that stands up for law and order. We need politicians who understand what is needed to achieve law and order. It should be politicians who, in active action, show that it is the police who decide in the streets and squares, not murderous gangsters. In a debate quite exactly two years ago, I declared war on gang crime and organised crime. Unfortunately, Mr President, I am forced to say that this war continues while the government continues to keep its head in the sand.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-233	Mr President, I would like to I have to start by recommending Jimmie Åkesson to read both what has been implemented in the field of criminal law and so on, and what is going on. So will Jimmie Åkesson discover that some of what he lists as he wants to do has been done or is going on. Not everything, but quite a lot. Jimmie Åkesson often talks about ordinary people's Sweden, and he does so with a loud tone. What Jimmie Åkesson does not do is demonstrate in political action how to do it better for ordinary people. In the vote on BP 2019 he showed how ordinary people can also be affected, but then in a negative sense. Thanks to Åkesson, the tax gap for pensioners was widened. At that time he saved nearly 1 billion in care for the elderly, cut down heavily in housing construction and reduced the opportunities for unemployed people to get training and removed the tax reduction for the union fee, and so on. How is it to stand on the side of ordinary people, Jimmie Åkesson?
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-235	Mr President, I would like to Ordinary people are an interesting concept, and it is widely discussed and debated in different contexts. Many with assignments like ours tend to throw themselves with the concepts and in different ways claim to represent just ordinary people. Let us look at what is happening in large parts of the country linked to organised gang crime. Who are the victims of gang crime? These are ordinary, honest people who live in not least vulnerable areas. Stefan Löfven tells us that there are forces that point to skin color as a reason for organized crime. Then you miss the point, namely that it is people with foreign background who are very much affected by other people with foreign background crime. What are ordinary people and not, Mr President, we will certainly continue to discuss in this House. In future, I will at least stand up for a safe and prosperous country.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-238	Mr President, I would like to We agree on the fight against gang crime. We also agree that it is not skin color that determines crime. It is a good thing that this is clearly highlighted by the Swedish Parliament. But my question was about how it will be better for ordinary people if pensioners are to pay more tax than employees on the same income. How does saving nearly 1 billion in care for the elderly improve? How will it be better to cut hard into housing construction? How will it be better to reduce opportunities for unemployed people to get training to move forward? How will it be better to remove the tax reduction for the union fee? How will it be better to say no – you have also done so – to collective agreements in public procurement? How does it get better for ordinary people, Jimmie Åkesson?
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-240	Mr President, I would like to Much of what Stefan Löfven lists is what we drive. We are pursuing these issues with a higher level of ambition than the government. With regard, for example, to the pensioner's tax, from day one – it is ten years since we entered this House – we have pushed on to close the tax gap between salary and pension. I am pleased that the government now announces that it will eventually do so. That is good, but it has taken a very long time to do this. To stand up for ordinary people is to make sure that ordinary, honest people with normal incomes dare to walk in streets and squares, that they have a welfare that delivers, that the elderly have access to care for the elderly on the day they need it and that the children are allowed to go to a safe and knowledge-oriented school. That is what we are pushing, Mr President, and that is what this government is destroying.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-243	Mr President, I would like to The head of the Swedish Democrat think tank Oikos, Mattias Karlsson, made severe criticism of Ulf Kristersson the other day. The reason was that Kristersson chose to give his support to Joe Biden and not Donald Trump in the upcoming US presidential election. M a t t ias Karlsson says that the battle is between cultural Marxism and Western civilization, and Trump was the only one who dared to take a stand in the cultural war. Does Jimmie Åkesson think Karlsson is right in his criticism of Ulf Kristersson? What exactly is so good about Donald Trump? He is a president who has increased tariffs, joined the outside world, left the Paris Agreement, lacks an offensive climate policy and whose polarising policies have led to violence and country-wide protests. Who chooses Jimmie Åkesson? Joe Biden or Donald Trump?
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-245	Mr President, I would like to I'm glad I live in Sweden and not in the United States. I don't have to choose between the two presidential candidates, but I vote in Swedish general elections – and then I usually vote for myself. And I will continue to do so as long as I am politically committed. I have not taken note of the criticism that Mattias Karlsson has addressed to Ulf Kristersson. But of course you can think of many different things about the Republican presidential candidate. I do, and most people do. It may not be the most popular figure, either in Sweden or in the outside world. But it's not just about this figure. It is also very much about the direction that the United States and the world should take, and there I prefer a Republican election victory to a left-wing liberal election victory. Then there are bad things about both, but I know what I prefer.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-247	Mr President, I would like to It obviously went well to choose Hungary's Viktor Orbán over Angela Merkel. The last time it was difficult for Jimmie Åkesson to choose between Macron and Putin, and now it is difficult to point out whether he should choose Joe Biden or Donald Trump. I understand that this is an unimportant issue for Jimmie Åkesson, but it says quite a lot about how you look at the world and what kind of society you strive for. That is also why I ask the question. How do you want to meet the future and tackle common challenges? Safeguard transparency and freedom? Are humans against humans and groups against groups? It's about values, and values matter. I understand that people are wary of choosing between these two, but what is it that appeals to the Swedish Democrats so much with the Republican party that Donald Trump now runs? What do the Swedish Democrats think will benefit the United States, and what do the Swedish Democrats think will benefit Sweden and Europe, with Donald Trump continuing to rule?
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-250	Mr President, I would like to Nor have I voted in any Hungarian election. I will not vote in any Romanian election. I will not vote in any French election. I will not vote in any Russian elections, but I will continue to vote in Swedish general elections. But it is clear that Annie Lööf has a point here – that what happens not least on the other side of the Atlantic has a big impact on us too. With regard to the battle around the issues that are at stake today and which are also topical here – the fight against terrorism, the fight against illegal immigration, large immigration and peoples' movements around the world, the fight against excessive globalisation that in many different ways creates polarisation in the world – I think it is quite clear that the side that currently has the presidency in the United States has significantly better solutions than the side that Annie Lööf represents and that she wants to implement in Sweden, with very limited success so far.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-252	Mr President, I would like to Jimmie Åkesson! After the last municipal elections, the Swedish Democrats won and took power in a small number of municipalities. They would become display windows with national significance, where it turns out how the Swedish Democrats are able to control. In Hörby, where you control, 26 managers have chosen to leave their positions. I quote the outgoing social manager: a whole municipality is being dismantled.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-255	I wanted to do good things for the hearers. I don't want to be in this sandbox. ..................................................... In Bromölla, the Swedish Democrats ruled for two years. They took over an economy in balance, which, despite significant cuts in school and preschool, they have now run to the bottom and lost control of. Now the municipal executive leaves the walkover. They stop. They're handing over power. They resign themselves and will do something else – play golf? I don't know what they do when they're free, the Swedish Democrats. They kind of give up after losing control of the municipality's finances. These were supposed to be your store windows, Jimmie Åkesson. This was supposed to show you how good you were at controlling. Now the light is extinguished in the Swedish Democrats shop window in Bromölla. How would Jimmie Åkesson rate what they have achieved?
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-258	Speaking of my last comment on the fact that we are debating rich politics and not local politics, I give the floor to Jimmie Åkesson.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-259	Mr President, I would like to Bromölla municipality has always had a big impact on the politics of the rich, much like Donald Trump has on Swedish politics. But it is true that we took over the government sometimes other Bromölla municipality after the last election. In Bromölla, we chose to rule in a minority, that is, not to be part of any coalition, with promises of support for the budget. It's been successful so far. What has not succeeded, however, is about 70 per cent of the other issues that have been pursued in the municipality, where a majority has been opposed. You can think of it what you want, but now it is so that if you want to take responsibility for it and feel that you do not get the support of the elected council for the policy you want to pursue to get a municipality on its feet and become successful, then it is responsible to hand over the government to those who think they can do it better. That is, in short, what has happened in Bromölla.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-261	Mr President, I would like to With all due respect: I think the President usually does an excellent job, but in this House there have been discussions of Klimpfjäll from Annie Lööf and Sölvesborg countless times from Jimmie Åkesson. I think I should reasonably mention both Umeå and Bromölla in the debate. These are important parts of Sweden, all of it. Jimmie Åkesson says that it has been difficult for the Swedish Democrats to get their politics through. When you look at the statistics from the municipal council votes, you can see that you have won most of it. You've won most of it, but you've lost control of the municipal economy. There are lots of municipalities in Sweden where it is difficult. These are minorities, you negotiate, you don't get everything through, but you don't just walk away. You don't just stop. You don't just give up when there are setbacks. Is that how the Swedish Democrats work? What does it look like in the Bromölla window now that the lights have gone off?
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-265	Mr President, I would like to As far as I know, the future is not settled yet in Bromölla. I'm sure it can happen a lot further. Our ambition, of course, is to continue to be involved in taking responsibility and not act as, for example, the former ruling party of the Social Democrats: in principle vote against everything and act opposition in a way that is directly irresponsible. Our ambition if we now end up in opposition in Bromölla is to continue to take responsibility for the municipality's best interests. That's what you have to do, I mean. Then it is clear that it is difficult to rule in a minority. That's it. The person who may take over in Bromölla will also experience that, I guess.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-268	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we must be careful about the sight of the interior of the country and the outward appearances of the world. But it is clear that Jimmie Åkesson shares one thing with Donald Trump, and it is his contempt for liberals and people standing to the left of him. To the right of him, there's nothing. There is a connection to something that Jimmie Åkesson often does not like, and it is global cooperation when it becomes real. Then I am thinking of the European Union. That's a very important thing. Now we see Britain on the borderline of Brexit. Looks like it's going down completely. The populists in the Brexit gang have taken over, the chief lawyer in the government administration in the UK resigns and everything indicates something quite difficult and unpleasant in the future. The UK has voted and is going out, but the way it is done is not so good. What does Jimmie Åkesson think this speaks for the Swedish part? In a troubled world, should we, for the Swedish part, cooperate more or less in the EU to protect ourselves? And can he learn any lessons from what has happened in Britain?
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-272	Mr President, I would like to I think it is rather significant for the Liberals to equate Europe with global cooperation. After all, Europe is not global cooperation; it is European cooperation in order for Europe to be able to assert itself in the global world. There's some difference. I am not opposed to global or European cooperation, on the contrary. It is very much a prerequisite for us, as a small, export-dependent country, to make our wheels spin reasonably. We have had this debate several times, me and both Johan Pehrson and Jan Björklund when he was the leader of the Liberals, so I thought somewhere that we had got past this stage where they blame each other for not wanting European cooperation. We want it, but we want it another way. We want it to be based on voluntaryity, reciprocity and a level playing field and that we should continue to cooperate with both the European Union and the United Kingdom, which is perhaps particularly important at the moment.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-275	Mr President, I would like to It is not that I am quarrelsome by definition, although it is sometimes thought that many in this House are. It is based on the fact that we have slightly different opinions about things, and here is one such thing. We believe in the Liberals that it is important to strengthen cooperation in Europe. When we see what is happening in China, what is happening in Russia, what is happening in Belarus, what is happening everywhere, we do not see that it is human rights and freedoms that are on the rise. We must cooperate more in the European Union to defend the values that we have together in this part of the world. The EU is by far the best cooperation for the environment, for jobs and for humanism, but it is also important for combating crime. For example, cooperation is now underway – the government is putting forward a proposal that we should ensure that we can better pursue profits from crime across Europe. It comes here people from Poland, Bulgaria and Romania and commits crimes. Swedes commit crimes and go to Spain. It is clear that we must ensure that the proceeds of crime are forfeited. Then we must work together, but Jimmie Åkesson says no to any further cooperation in the field of justice.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-278	Mr President, I would like to I am not saying no to all judicial cooperation. I think, for example, that we should have stronger cooperation in order to re-establish internal border controls so that it becomes more difficult for Polish or Bulgarian criminals to come to Sweden and commit crimes or, for that matter, for Swedes to go to Spain and commit crimes or whatever it is. But that's the Liberals against. I put the question to Jan Björklund on several occasions: is there any political area at all where the Liberals do not want to give more – or all – power to Brussels? I still have no answer to that question. I realise – and I apologise for this – that I will not get an answer now either, because Johan Pehrson cannot answer. But it's a rhetorical question. Liberals are the most Europe-wide party in this House. In principle, we want to send all power to Brussels – power over everything that does not belong in Brussels and that we can manage to govern on our own. We are strongly opposed to this development.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-281	Madam President, I would like During this Corona Spring and ‐ summer we in Sweden have pilgrimaged to nature. Our forests, coasts, lakes and mountains and our right of public access have brought much joy and helped many of us through a time of anxiety. But nature also needs our help. It must be protected and cared for. If it is to be available to many people, hiking trails, rest areas and maintenance are needed. Since the Green Party took office in the government, more than 1 000 new nature reserves have been formed or enlarged. This has happened despite persistent opposition from the Swedish Democrats and other parties on the right, which I think surprises many. As soon as you get the chance, you take away the money that goes to protect and take care of Sweden's beautiful nature. Madam President, I would like My simple question to Jimmie Åkesson is: Why does he not want to protect Sweden's nature?
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-285	Madam President, I would like My experience, not least from quite a few years in municipal politics, is that the Green Party is Sweden's main brake block. As soon as you need to exploit some area or as soon as you need to somehow create growth to, for example, increase the tax base in a small municipality like my own, the Green Party is there and says: No, no, no – you can't do that! It is unbalanced and impragmatic. So you don't take the country forward. I know the vibes from Isabella Lövin's reply; the Environmental Party really wants to make all of Sweden a nature reserve. I guess that sounds nice and good. I guess it's really nice. The problem is that there are other values too. People must have a place to live. People must have a place to work. People must be able to transport themselves to and from work and other establishments around the country. Then the whole country cannot be a nature reserve; then you have to weigh these things against each other. That's what we're doing, unlike the Green Party.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-287	Madam President, I would like Jimmie Åkesson may be familiar with the latest report from the UN Panel on Biological Diversity. It says that 1 million species in the world are threatened if we do not protect the remaining ecosystems. Man has indeed invaded nature. We need resilient, resilient ecosystems, also in the light of climate change. There is another part of this too. Humans draw their power from nature. We have 30 national heirlooms, such as Abisko, Sarek, Stora Sjöfallet, Stenshuvud and Dalby Söderskog, to mention just a few places that I hope many more Swedes will have the opportunity to visit. But the Swedish Democrats cut 200 million SEK from work to maintain hiking trails and rest areas that make nature available in our national parks. Again, Jimmie Åkesson : Don't the Swedish Democrats see a value in protecting Sweden's nature?
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-291	Madam President, I would like Isabella Lövin himself listed a number of examples of what has happened. Some of these places I visit myself quite often and think it's fantastic. But it is not the same thing as that the whole of Sweden can be a nature reserve. It is this balance that I lack in the Green Party – as almost everything the Green Party does, it becomes so terribly unbalanced. This is the fundamental conflict in this discussion. I love nature. I think nature is absolutely amazing, and those parts of our nature that are worth preserving, of course, we should do what we can to preserve. But that doesn't mean time should stand still. We had a previous replica shift where it was found that we cannot always have a pandemic to reduce emissions, and this is a bit the same thing. There must be balance. There are different values that we as politicians have to relate to. We cannot just be unbalanced and focus on one thing and totally ignore the other, as the Green Party is constantly doing.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-295	Madam President, I would like Örebro, Solna, Angered, Norsborg – four places where violence has pushed security away in recent times. Death shootings, robbery of humiliation, gang conflict and a murdered 12-year-old girl – these are atrocities that are hard to take in and that we must do everything in our power to stop. It is an enormous social problem, which has rightly taken a great place in today's debate. Where violence takes place, faith in the future is extinguished. There, fear takes over, and ordinary, honest people are affected—they're the ones who live there. We must use the full force of the rule of law to stop this. We must face organised crime with full force, break its structures and take its power away from it. We need to give our police officers more colleagues, better resources and the right tools to make it easier to detect and combat crime. We need to strengthen other parts of our judicial system. We need to see how we can substantially tighten the penalties for gang crime, strengthen witness protection, improve camera surveillance and stop the introduction of illegal weapons, but also ensure that zero tolerance against petty crimes is introduced in order to break a criminal path early. But if we are to break gang crime in the longer term, we must not forget the most basic: prevention. It is important to reduce vulnerability in our suburbs, increase collaboration, build our society stronger and offer jobs, education and inclusion to the people who live in exclusion and where gangs recruit. It is important to make sure that more people can break up and leave the criminal life behind. Successful work requires both an offensive to prosecute the perpetrators of crime and preventive work so that fewer end up in devastating crime. Sweden should be a safe country to live in. Every day we have to take responsibility for increasing the security and thus the freedom of people, no matter where they live.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-300	Madam President, I would like I wish Annie Lööf welcome back. In Sweden, private schools are not subject to the principle of public access, but it would probably be necessary for them to do so. We know that some schools take money that they have received in school money and, for example, invest it abroad to buy other schools. Maybe that wasn't really the idea. We know that some have put in systems to give joy certificates, for example in relation to national tests. Whether you can have national tests in the future is another problem with this secrecy. We also know that some profit-making schools have been poor at receiving pupils with special needs. Now these problems are growing. Statistics are classified, and it is difficult to carry out the activities as intended. All this would be resolved by a simple decision that the principle of public access also applies to schools that are private but which are funded by common funds, but you have actually stopped it. Why have you done that, Annie Lööf?
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-305	Madam President, I would like Being able to speak part of schools' performance and quality data is absolutely fundamental for us, both for the quality of schools and for equality and equivalence. But it is also a prerequisite for free school elections. We believe that school leaders, regardless of who they are, should deliver statistical data as it has been until just a short time ago. It is not the Center Party that has made sure that these statistics are now secret. We find it bizarre and it goes without saying that there should be openness and transparency in this. After all, it is a judgment from the Administrative Court of Appeal, and since it came we have been helpful and pushed forward that the Swedish National Agency for Education and Statistics will produce proposals to enable transparency to continue as it has been so far. The Swedish National Agency for Education has now presented a proposal for rules that would allow us to return to what it was like in the past. We think that's a good thing.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-308	Madam President, I would like Well, it's probably because it depends on what the Center Party has decided we have this mess and chaos, because if you had agreed to the obvious, that the principle of public access should apply to private schools too, these problems would never have arisen. We would also have found out about such things as how to channel Swedish school money to other countries for school purchases and much other important information. In the past, the Center Party has argued that it is for the sake of small schools that it does not want the principle of public access, although small public schools are obviously subject to the principle of public access. Now the idea-based schools are saying that they want to be covered by the principle of public access. It's time to reconsider. This is a completely unreasonable effect of you doing what the big school companies want. You protect them in every possible position and their ability to profit from our children. The Swedish school does not feel good about it.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-311	Madam President, I would like A political splicing, Jonas Sjöstedt, does not become more true just because you repeat it. The Center Party is in favour of openness, transparency and transparency. We are in favour of free school elections, and then it is important that these tasks exist. What we say no to, on the other hand, is precisely the introduction of the principle of public access by independent principals. This means that we reject a legally complex system that would remove the possibility of smaller schools, such as village schools. But we say yes to the proposals now on the table to return to the system we had in the past with openness and transparency. I think that goes without saying even further. They will be reviewed, and they will meet high quality standards. We're gonna have a good school.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-313	Madam President, I would like In seven weeks' time, I will resign as Chairman of the Left Party and I will also leave my seat, so I would like to take this two minutes to thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the College of Presidents and Andreas Norlén, who, after all, has been an excellent President, I think, representing the whole Parliament in an exemplary way. I think it is of great value that, in this complex situation, we have had such a fantastic Presidency presidium. For me, Andreas Norlén personifies the concept of conscientiousness. I would also like to thank everyone else who works in Parliament. This is an incredibly well-run institution with all the officials who help us. This is important for Sweden's democracy. I would also like to extend special thanks to Parliament's professional and pleasant security guards, probably the nicest security guards anywhere. I would like to thank our highly professional and careful cleaning staff for this well-managed workplace and thank those who have served us and prepared our meals during these years. You are doing an amazing job for which I would like to thank you.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-318	I would also like to thank my fellow party leaders for both straightforward debates and good cooperation. I would like to thank all of you Members. Even when we have had different political views, I have had a good personal relationship with almost everyone I have met and worked with. I'm very glad it's been that way. But most of all, I am most grateful to all of you in the country who are doing what you can to create a better society: you who work for equality and justice, you who stand up for the rights of your fellow workers, you who work voluntarily on women's shelters, you who work to save the climate, all of you who face racism with humanism. It has been a privilege to meet you all around Sweden during these years. I end up as party chairman, but I will always be one of you.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-321	Madam President, I would like I have been informed that on Twitter Jonas Sjöstedt has expressed a desire to replace the Swedish sossos with Finnish Social Democrats. I have to disappoint Jonas Sjöstedt when I stand by the Swedish Social Democrats, the usual ones. Joking aside, I would like to extend warm thanks to you, Jonas Sjöstedt. Thank you for a great effort in Swedish politics! You have ensured that your party has achieved success. I would also like to thank you for the budgetary cooperation that we had during the last parliamentary term – we made a number of progress there. We haven't always thought the same. That is not to be done; we are two parties. But I have always appreciated and respected, and still do, your straightforwardness and straightforwardness, but also that you stand up so clearly for values, not least equality and the equal value of all people. I have to say, I think it's fantastically good. I hope now is the time for family recovery. I know it will be in another part of the world. With this, I'd like to take this opportunity to wish you a really good life whatever you do. I understand there's a coffee shop down there. If that's the case, it might be good to have a book about seven kinds of cookies. I thought it might look good down there. You can introduce the Swedish coffee that is available in New York and perhaps soon in Hanoi, what do I know? You like to cook. You're better at it than I am, which doesn't say much in itself. But I thought that also an apron would be suitable, as red as it may be and with Swedish moose. Thank you, Jonas Sjöstedt!
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-325	Madam President, I would like Kiito, Stefan Löfven! I'd like to thank you for these years. Above all, I would like to thank you for the cooperation we had during the last parliamentary term. We did very well for ordinary people. We did very well to show that it is possible to expand welfare and increase equality in Swedish society. It is important to remember, not least this time when developments may be moving in a slightly different direction. I don't care about all the battles we've had in the debate and sometimes we've had differences, I want you to know that I appreciate you as a person. Sometimes I have thought that in another world and another time it would have been nice to have Stefan and Ulla as neighbors at the summer house – usually helpful people, interested in the world and with deep cultural interest who like to come over on a well-made pork pancakes. Thank you, Stefan.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-328	Madam President, I would like Yes, Jonas, it was an intellectually alert left that made me become politically right. Those in the student corps at St.Eskil's school in Eskilstuna were nice, read thick books and drank a lot of tea, sometimes other things too. The rest of us liked them, but they were completely wrong about everything from grades to satellite dishes and employee funds, so we decided to do the same, but quite the opposite. And that's the way it is. It's been really fun to disagree with you. It's happened almost 99 times out of 100, so we've been practicing it. It's also been fun to get along with you sometimes. You make a difference between a person and a thing. It's an awfully important quality to me. Now you will join your family in Asia. Even there we have a little common denominator, a great interest in Asia and China, at the moment a rather concerned interest in what is happening in China. I thought I'd give you some travel writing, maybe to read at the café. It's an epic story called L ast B oat O out of Shanghai. It sets the light on what the whole world now wonders: What will happen to Taiwan in the coming years? I haven't had time to read the book but just the reviews, so please send me a review when you laze over there in the heat. Many thanks for these years!
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-334	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ulf. I have heard of this book and am really looking forward to reading it. We have 1% in common, and over the past year we have been quite good at talking about that percentage and also able to make a workshop out of it – but well aware that the other 99% is also there. No party chairmen of the Moderates and the Left Party have ever worked as closely together as the two of us have. This has become the case in Swedish politics. I almost said something, but, no, I won't. I appreciate you. I have good experiences working with you. You're straight, you're clear, you keep your word and you tell me the truth, and I like it. They're straight pucks. When you don't have to go around things so many times you get more done. I think about what we've done. Twice during this covid period, we have provided more money for a welfare that really needs it. We have slowed down the government's, or rather the Center Party's, chaos privatisation of the Employment Service because we thought it was unwise and did not work. We have stopped the ill-thought-out tax cut with a tax deduction so that the money would go to health care and other things instead. We have worked for better rules for labour immigration. Maybe we also have a few things to do before I'm done. It's going pretty well for the Moderates thanks to this, so I'm thinking here is a new course and a recipe for success. Continue to prioritise welfare, stop privatisations and avoid unnecessary tax cuts and it will go well!
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-340	Madam President, I would like This is my last change of line with Jonas Sjöstedt, and there have been many over the years. I thought about what I would give Jonas Sjöstedt as a detour present, but then I realized that he is probably not one of those who likes detours. That is why my gift will be a very tense and ideological debate. At the DN Debate last week, the Left Party, for which time in order I do not know, contrasted the RUT deduction with the welfare. Jobs and companies will be taxed on fire, and even the property tax will be back in a situation where we really need to tear up the Swedish economy, not put a wet blanket over it. When is the Left Party to stop portraying its contempt for real jobs and self-sufficiency in words such as solidarity and gender equality? When will they realise that extended RUT deductions, reduced costs for our companies and more people who work do not weaken welfare but strengthen it? Will the Left Party ever settle for less than having socialised the whole of business?
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-343	Madam President, I would like I have a party leader debate left in Swedish Television. Annie Lööf, you're giving a nice present, for something I've really appreciated during my time as chairman has been our debate tours. There were hundreds, sometimes well over a thousand people, and I think they came for a reason: we had clear contradictions– Annie Lööf just proved that there is stun in the debate – but at the same time a respectful tone. I think it is important in this political time that we can do just that. I'm gonna get serious, too. Annie Lööf, you have an important role in Swedish bourgeoisie in the future. We are living at a time when many are silent about racism and some are beginning to sound like racism. You don't, and it's important. It is important that there is such a bourgeoisie in Sweden. All our other disagreements aside: I think this may have a decisive impact, and here you have all my respect. In this work I wish you all the best, I wish your family all the best and I wish you a complete failure in the implementation of the January agreement clauses on LAS and on market rents.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-347	Madam President, I would like This is how it sounds in the debate between me and Jonas Sjöstedt. That is also what I will miss: an opponent who does not, in fact, shy away from ideological debates with high ceilings and strong energy. We have had many such debates over the years, and we have also taken them on tour. I will carry this with me as Jonas Sjöstedt now leaves the political scene. I will miss a political opponent but also a colleague who has always been able to distinguish between the thing and the person and who has stood up for his values in the dark, who has been beaten for human dignity and humanism and who has been a warm and sympathetic person even after the spotlight has gone out. This is a strength in our industry. We may disagree a lot, but I have great respect for you, Jonas Sjöstedt. I also have great respect for the will and desire to be more with the family, and I hope that you will have a wonderful time as you move to your family shortly. As a thank-and-hey gift to you, the Center Party has also donated money in your name to Save the Children's important work.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-351	Madam President, I would like Thank you for two very nice gifts, Annie! I wish you all the best.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-352	Madam President, I would like I would like to join in thanking Jonas Sjöstedt. I believe that Swedish history will remember Sjöstedt as a leader who opened up his party and took it away from dogmatism and more against pragmatism without anyone doubting for one second where the party stood on the political scale under his leadership. One example of this is that left-wing parties and Christian Democrats have actually been able to settle. Despite very different reform agendas in general, we have been able to agree on welfare efforts that have given the elderly, health care and LSS more resources, which they have really needed. In this spirit, as a parting gift to Jonas, we have chosen to make a contribution to Hemlösa.se. It is the organisation in which he himself has chosen to engage and in a concrete way translate his ideals into reality – and which, speaking for Jonas Sjöstedt's character, he has not chosen to do the media on. I myself will also remember and miss the man Jonas whom I have had to meet. It's a person I like to talk to, maybe because we're basically a bit alike, even though you can't believe it. We both like to bake bread, listen to country, see romantic comedies and pick berries in the woods – but we haven't done this together – and both our great joy in life are the family and the children. If someone had described Jonas on the basis of these interests, I would have said: here we have a Christian-Democrat. I hope Jonas doesn't mind, because that's the best compliment I can get from me. I hope that's going to happen. I wish you all the best in the future, and if the forests of Vietnam are not as attractive as these in Sweden, you have a standing invitation to come and pick berries with me. I can take the blueberries, and you can take the Lingon. Thank you for your cooperation!
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-359	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Ebba, your words are warm! Yes, I have a faiblesse for country music, forest and berries. Thanks also for the gift to Hemlösa.se, which is an organization that makes enormous practical use of people who really need support and solidarity from others. It's important. I've enjoyed working with you. There have been tough debates, just as there should be between political opponents. But when we have been able to shake up a few extra billions of elderly care and medical care, we have done so. That's good. The issues should be dealt with first and foremost in this way. But what I will remember most from our time as party leader was our first real conversation in the News, before broadcast. You were there with your little boy Birger, who I had to borrow and take care of when you were going to do other things in News. It was such a fine trust to take care of someone's children for a little while. It meant a lot to me.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-362	Madam President, I would like It is a long and solid political act that will soon end when you leave your mission, Jonas Sjöstedt. We in the Liberals, my predecessors, Nyamko Sabuni and myself, like so many others, would like to thank you. We have come across each other on a lot of occasions in rainy streets and stormy squares, in all sorts of European elections and in parliamentary elections. Now we stand here, and everything beautiful ends. You've been working for the Left Party. For this reason, I would like to submit a book by my colleague Fredrik Malm. It is about a part of the Left Party history and about the Naphta Syndicate, which later became the Gulf sandwiches and which has reappeared here and there in Sweden. It's well worth reading. Please review and agree! Fredrik has done a solid job on this. It's history. But also what is being done here and now is great, and what Ebba Busch has just said also applies to us in the Liberals. We are also impressed by the voluntary work being done. Many people in the Left Party and for that matter in the Liberals and all parties are also union people. Not only are we trying to be agitators, but we are doing things because we want to change the world. And we are not just doing it here in the Chamber or in Örebro City Council. Can I say Örebro, by the way? Yeah, I said Örebro. It is an amazing job that is being done. What you've done for the homeless impresses us, and that's why we obviously have a gift for the City Mission's work for the same thing. It's another organization, but still. Then there's this thing about getting a little older. First of all, I have to say that there are people in my absolute vicinity who, in view of me standing here and trying to prepare myself – it may not seem to me that I'm trying to prepare for the debates – have said to me: When I ask them what they mean, they answer, "But be relaxed and natural, change a bit in tempo, have some nice examples, preferably local from some place!" It's effective. People love it, and you've done it very well. When it comes to painting portraits, Winston Churchill has been mentioned before. He wasn't exactly a left-winger either, I'll stress. When they painted a painting of him, he didn't think it was so good looking, in his old age. Then he found out, and there was indeed an answer to the question: Age is cruel. But it can't be seen on you, Jonas Sjöstedt. You have to be careful when you're a man getting older, but since you like buns and coffee you get a bag of me here. Then be careful not to eat too much of the white sugar.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-367	Madam President, I would like I want to thank you very much, Johan Pehrson. I thank you for the debates that we have had and which I think have been straightforward and clear. I often find it fun to debate with liberals. Many are ideological people, and there are perhaps some in common sometimes with the Left Party when it comes to party culture, for good and evil. I would also like to thank you for the fine gifts. The book I've read, but I'm very happy to have it. It's actually a good and interesting book. I think that much of what is written by bourgeois politicians about the Left Party is both superficial and prejudiced. Unfortunately, it is quite common to confirm your prejudices, but this is not such a book. This is a book that does a historical pioneer work by going through things, people and other things that were completely unknown to me. I think it's important that the book was written that way, and it's perhaps today's book tip. Thank you so much!
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-369	Madam President, I would like Much has happened in Swedish politics since you became party leader of Left Party, Jonas Sjöstedt. When the bag for your party leadership time is now tied together, you can really look back on an incredibly important time in Swedish politics, where you have been the leader of the Left Party who has played an important role during this time. You have been, and you have represented, an important voice for Swedish society and have done so in a way that I really, really, am full of admiration for. You're an amazing rhetorical person. You have a personality and a credibility that really reaches out, and your voice is needed. Then we can have debates between the Left and the Green Party about being the one who expresses the right views and also implements policies. In fact, we have implemented a lot of politics together. I would like to thank you very much for the budgetary cooperation that we have had during the last parliamentary term. Together, we were involved in ensuring that Sweden more than doubled the environmental and climate budget, for example. Your party colleague Jens Holm, as I saw here just now, described in 2012 the expansion of solar cells as standing and stomping, but now we can go to Ikea and buy a solar cell package – Solar Ray – as easily as we buy the bookcase Billy. In 2012, 7 megawatts of solar power were installed. Last year it was 698 megawatts in a year. As a memory of this, Per Bolund, me and the Green Party now want to give you a solar lamp that you can take with you to Vietnam. You can read all the books and perhaps even bake in the light of the lamp and remember everything amazing that you have been involved in doing for Sweden and the world. I wish you all the best and good luck.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-374	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Isabella! I've been to Clas Ohlson and other places and thought I'd buy one. It hasn't happened, but now I have this. It's gonna be great. Solar cells are on my roof too, so I've contributed to the 7 megawatts. It may not be that much, but I've done my part. And that's what it's gonna have to be if we're gonna make it through the climate. I think it has been fun to work with you in the Green Party, especially during the last parliamentary term. There is no doubt about your strong commitment to the climate and also your incredible knowledge of marine environment, fishing and other matters. I have the deepest respect for that. I know you'll also choose to quit a little later. We will thank you in due course after the last debate. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you right now for all the efforts you have made. It's tough sometimes. It's windy sometimes. That's a lot of work. I don't have to get comments about clothes, powder and stuff like that. I wish that everyone in politics would not have to do so, but we have some way to go in many different areas. I know that you have really worked for what you believe in, and that is the big question: if we do not manage the climate, we will not be able to do so much in the future. You have a big and important fight ahead of you. I'm on your side in that fight.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-377	On behalf of the Speaker of the Bureau, I would like to express our sincere thanks to you, Jonas Sjöstedt, for your committed work here in Parliament all these years. I wish you a very warm luck with future projects and challenges – the move to Vietnam and the authorship. I know there will soon be a book, a detective, that takes place here in Parliament, among other things. I personally look forward to reading it. Good luck and thank you!
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-378	Madam President, I would like This parliamentary debate is important, because in this House all parties themselves choose what matters they think are important. We have raised the issue of gang crime, that Sweden has slipped down to place 24 out of 27 in the EU's unemployment rate and that Sweden already before Corona had record-long care queues. Now we see an avalanche of untreated cases coming up. But we can talk about anything here. I would like to welcome your comments, your questions and your willingness to debate. Earlier in other debates, I have been asked about individual wordings in another party's programme and about the flag policy in the Municipality of Sölvesborg, and in a whole debate all raised the same insinuant questions about abortion. You are also welcome with your questions today. Perhaps there will be some question about Swedish fisheries policy or about the American election – Trump versus Biden, which has partly already been discussed. But before choosing the subject, I would like to mention Shayan Gaff 22 years, Luna Mandic 4 years, Ndella Jack 18 years, Petar Petrovic 20 years, Yuusuf Warsame 8 years, Rami Amin 24 years, Karolin Hakim 31 years and Adriana Naghei 12 years. They're all innocent victims of gang shootings and explosions. You choose what we are discussing in this House, and your choices show your priorities.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-381	Madam President, I would like This is also a grip: talk about what you want, but only about what I want us to talk about. The gang crime has had and must have its rightful place in a political debate. It has been and will continue to be. I also appreciate that Ebba Busch – that's how it looks anyway – shares our view of the challenges related to welfare, including health care and care for the elderly. I think it is a good message to the Swedish people if there is a broad consensus that we should now develop our welfare. Together with our partner parties, we are now making a big impact on welfare. As a result, more permanent nurses and carers can be employed in the care of the elderly and there will also be better conditions in the health care sector. After all, it is in the municipalities and regions of the country that this is to be done. Therefore, I would like to ask you, Ebba Busch: how do the Christian Democrats view these principles? What changes are you willing to drive in order for us to get good welfare out there as well?
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-385	Madam President, I would like First of all, it is clear that more resources will be needed for elderly care, for health care and for strengthening LSS. But we've also seen, and we've found out, before the coronapendem with the record-long care queues, that only more money is not the solution. It is also how to use those who are crucial– if there are actually conditions for nurses to do their job or if they get stuck in, for example, paperwork. That is why we need to make structural changes such as strongly strengthening primary care, so that those who are currently in the emergency room instead end up in the health centres where they could be helped more quickly. This must be facilitated. We must also dare to question the basis of the whole health organisation – the regions. It has become clear once again during this pandemic that the county councils, the so-called regions, have done their part and that we must put them down and have a collective responsibility.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-386	Madam President, I would like I also see the need for greater national responsibility to ensure that everyone around our country has short queues for health care. However, I do not believe that this is the right way to start a major reorganisation of Swedish health care. It would take a long time, and it would delay what we want to do when it comes to short waiting times and more. I think that's the wrong way to go. But what is also the wrong way to go is to let profitability take precedence over people's need for care. People's need for care should be governed by who needs care and when they need it. I would therefore like to ask Ebba Busch how she sees that, for example, the choice of care in Region Stockholm, which her party is now involved in rolling out, helps to achieve good care on equal terms for everyone.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-389	Madam President, I would like If we are to keep this at a level that is appropriate for Parliament, our basic position is precisely that freedom of choice is good. It shall also be possible for those affected by the disease to have several operators to choose from. We also know that it has been important to make it possible to compete, for example, for wages and to actually push up wages in a women's dominated sector. This has been done in the construction industry but has not been feasible in healthcare, for example. But there are shortcomings everywhere, and we are prepared to be open about the shortcomings that exist in regions where we are in control. I am counting on the Social Democrats to do the same. We do not want to do a major reorganisation now, but to provide long-term conditions for healthcare to do its job requires us to close down the regions. Finally, I think it is perfectly okay to do as I did at the beginning and say that the victims have had too little room in this House today.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-393	Madam President, I would like Ebba Busch has explained that we need a new feminism. Ebba Busch does not like menstruation and speaks disparagingly of gender flu. On the other hand, she likes a new version of the child care allowance, a childcare allowance for women to stay at home with their children. The KD claims that this gives more freedom of choice to families when we know that those who used the child care allowance to a very large extent were low-skilled women with foreign background and that it effectively shut them out of the labour market. I wonder, Ebba Busch: How does this improve integration? What does it have to do with feminism to create new systems that for the most part keep the most vulnerable foreign-born women in our society in the home instead of getting into the labour market and having an opportunity for their own income and for children to be able to attend preschool? Is this really feminism, Ebba Busch?
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-395	Madam President, I would like I am a proud bourgeois feminist, and I have called for a new kind of feminism in Sweden because a government that calls itself feminist but has not set aside enough resources or made legislative changes to ensure that women who report sexual abuse can actually get redress should not call themselves feminist. The same is true when it comes to health care, where we know that it is women who suffer from sick leave to a much greater extent. Women are affected twice as much by sick leave as men, and the sitting so-called feminist government has no plan to remedy this. Then you shouldn't call yourself a feminist government. To the point: I do not think it is a problem that mothers and fathers find forms that prevent their children from having to be in overcrowded children's groups in preschool when they are one and a half years old and that this is made possible, for example, by day care providers or that you can stay home for a few more months while the children are young.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-398	Madam President, I would like I note that Ebba Busch did not answer my question. In what way does it help integration, and in what way does it solve the problems that we see in the affected areas to introduce a reform of just over SEK 1 billion, a so-called childcare money, which we know will mostly be used by foreign-born women who are low-skilled and who find it difficult to enter the labour market? They receive SEK 6,000 per child, as you suggest, to stay at home and care for so-called childcare at home. This is not a reform of freedom of choice, Ebba Busch. This is nothing for well-educated Swedish women who want to stay at home. This is a reform that will chain women into the home, women who need to enter the labour market and who also need to have other visions and a different perspective so that integration is improved in the most vulnerable areas. This is a policy that goes directly against what we need to do, and it is an incredible egoism that well-educated KD women think this is a reform of freedom of choice when it leads to women staying at home in vulnerable areas.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-400	Madam President, I would like Our basic principle is that women are no more stupid than men. Our basic principle is that the gender equality debate in Sweden has been about us being just as capable as men to make decisions about our lives, and I am tired of the incapacitation. If you have a year and three months old children and are afraid that they will sit in overcrowded preschool groups, there must be alternatives. It may be that you are home a little longer when the children are young. It may also be day care providers that this can be used for. We will not reintroduce any old custody allowance. On top of that, we add compulsory language preschool for those who are not born in Sweden, because they have different prerequisites and must have other requirements and opportunities. And Sfi must be made possible for those who are on parental leave and have a small baby at home. Then we redesign the benefit systems so that you can't stack contributions on each other, just because you have many children, and don't work.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-402	Madam President, I would like The ongoing coronapander has exposed clear shortcomings in our welfare. One such shortcoming is what we have seen in the care of the elderly – from underestimation to a lack of relevant equipment. There are many good accommodations and many examples of good home care where employees do great things for our year-rich and other care-needs. But there are too many examples where employees have lacked basic conditions to do a good job of protecting and caring for people. Liberals are now taking part in the biggest ever investment in better care for the elderly in Sweden: 8 billion are earmarked for care for the elderly in the budget that will soon be put on Parliament's table, if we put together this year's combined efforts. It will go to more employees, to better education and to develop working methods and routines. But the Liberals want more. Already 35 years ago, we liberals fought for people's right to privacy in care for the elderly – the right to their own room for those who wanted to. Now it is more necessary to have your own teams; it is unreasonable for older, fragile people to have to meet perhaps 10 – 15 different people a week, regardless of the pandemic. Older people and staff need to understand each other. Those who work in care for the elderly must be given sufficient knowledge of the Swedish language to be able to work there. Liberals want it to be possible again to hire doctors in care for the elderly. This is important in order to provide the best care and care in place. We have been pushing for decades to improve the position of the most vulnerable and not least for better care for the elderly. That's what we're going to do. It is about that even in the autumn of the age you should be able to experience the opportunity of Sweden and live your whole life with dignity.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-408	Madam President, I would like Last Monday, I had a historic event. Then, together with the Prime Minister, I pressed the start button for Hybrid in Luleå. Hybrid is a world-unique pilot plant for non-climate steel production, with the potential to reduce Sweden's emissions by 10 percent and the world's emissions by 6 percent. Three large Swedish companies – SSAB, LKAB and Vattenfall – have thanks to government support Industrikliv, the clear commitment to a 100 percent renewable electricity system and the Swedish Climate Act dared to decide to leave a thousand-year technology behind where steel is made with coal-fired blast furnaces. Now it can be done with green hydrogen. When I talk to representatives of heavy industry today, they are no longer concerned about the climate change – quite the contrary! They themselves are part of it. What they are now afraid of are political parties that, in their shadow budgets, strangle support for climate change, tax subsidies fossil fuels by reducing the carbon tax and who – despite the fact that cheap hydrogen for fossil steel plants require clear targets for renewable energy – want to invest in expensive nuclear energy that would effectively eliminate the entire calculation for fossil-free steel. Madam President, I would like I spoke in my first speech about the importance of long-termism. Six years of green industrial policy has enabled a revolution in the Swedish steel industry, but the industry needs long-term rules of play – not ill-considered patchwork, as when the Moderates and Christian Democrats left the energy agreement. We can cope with the climate and create new jobs, and Sweden can continue to be a world leader if politicians think more about tomorrow's world than about tomorrow's election movement.
i-4cb1d29e9f63ed5f-412	I asked to take over the President's stick from the second Vice-President for the opportunity to express warm thanks to Jonas Sjöstedt for the extremely kind words he said about me in the speaker's chair a little while ago. A warm thank you for a good cooperation, Jonas Sjöstedt, and a warm thank you for your work for the Swedish parliament and Swedish democracy! I would also like to thank all the participants in today's party leader debate, which is now concluded.
