i-fdcfa5e492534deb-0	Madam President, I would like The proposal that we are now debating contains legislative amendments that the government is proposing in response to a new EU regulation on chemical substances that can be used for legitimate purposes but which can also be misused to produce explosives. We Moderates welcome legislative changes that increase the oversight of more actors and call for more measures to raise awareness of explosives. But that is not enough, and more needs to be done. Sweden has enormous problems. What we call shootings and explosions, although it's actually attempted murder and bombing, has become so commonplace that sometimes it only becomes small newspaper announcements. According to the police, the development we have seen in Sweden lacks an international equivalent. In 2019 257 bombings and bombings occurred. Many of these bombings have taken place in the middle of town, in residential properties and in central places where people move and live. Last September a young woman was seriously injured when she passed a store in Lund and a bomb detonated. In January this year two explosions occurred the same night, and two residential buildings here in Stockholm, one in Kista and one in Husby, suffered very serious damage. Families had to be evacuated and taken to hospital. This weekend there was an explosion in a stairwell in Gothenburg. The property suffered extensive damage, and a girl was injured and had to be taken to hospital with an ambulance. Can you even imagine the fear that young children wake up from a bomb detonating and that families are forced to flee their homes in the middle of the night in Gothenburg, in Stockholm and around Sweden? Will these children dare to sleep at home again, and what fear will they have to live with in the future? This is so unimaginably terrible. People of this kind who do these things and who are so totally ruthless should not be allowed to move freely in our society. Those who place a bomb in a residential building are completely indifferent to the fact that innocent people are injured, killed and can have their homes bombed. I can't believe it. They're supposed to be under lock and key for a long time. There is a need for a thorough review of the regulations on explosives, and penalties need to be tightened up. The punitive measures proposed by the government in another bill, a stricter approach to the handling of weapons and explosives, are dealt with in the Committee on Justice and are not sufficient. Development must stop before these gangs tear up our society, the society that we know and the country that we want Sweden to be. Crime threatens not only the lives of individuals but the entire Swedish social contract. Madam President, I would like The explosions are difficult to investigate, and it is clear that more needs to be done and that more tools are needed in the fight against the bombings. The police have pointed out a number of shortcomings in the handling of explosives, which increases the risk of explosives disappearing from, for example, construction sites, explosives that are then used for criminal purposes. That is why the whole chain of handling explosives needs to be strengthened and tightened up. These include everything from sufficient competence and resources of the supervisory bodies to the fact that the necessary controls are carried out on a continuous basis and that there are sufficient means of sanctioning the operators who are failing to deal with them. According to the police, explosives that have been seized are often manufactured for use at construction sites. A requirement for more effective labelling of commercial explosives already in production, for example by means of DNA marking or other effective labelling methods, could make it easier to trace where the explosives come from and who manufactured them. It would facilitate the police's investigation work. We therefore want to review the possibility of DNA marking or otherwise improving the labelling of commercial explosives, precisely in order to strengthen and streamline police investigation so that more reported blasts and bombings lead to convictions. Madam President, I would like In November 2019, the Government commissioned six authorities to jointly increase society's ability to handle explosives and prevent and prevent their illegal introduction and use. The operational cooperation shall be strengthened and the ability to deal jointly with explosives and explosives shall be increased. The assignment is good, but it should not be reported until November 2021. Given the situation that Sweden finds itself in with very serious gang crime, bombings and shootings, it is important that the power collection takes place more quickly. We Moderates therefore want the mission to be reported earlier. Madam President, I would like Of course, the Moderates support all three of our reservations, but for the winning of time, I am in favour of reservation 1 only.
i-fdcfa5e492534deb-18	Madam President, I would like The report deals with a number of legislative amendments to a new EU regulation on explosives precursors. The word explosives precursors, Madam President, may not be a word that we use in everyday speech, but it is therefore a question of chemical substances that can be used for legitimate purposes, for example in the construction industry, or sold in the retail sector. But they can also be misused to make explosives. Examples of such substances may be nitromethane, hydrogen peroxide and nitric acid. The legislative changes include the licensing system, sales control, supervision of the application of the EU Regulation and sanctions. The EU regulation can be seen as a next step and a further strengthening of the regulatory framework within the framework of the EU's joint work to combat terrorism and other serious crime. The current EU regulation on which the legislative amendments are based entered into force on 31 July 2019 and will apply from 1 February next year by Swedish courts and authorities. Here in Sweden, the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness is responsible for preparing for the practical implementation of the new rules. The EU Regulation continues to prohibit a number of listed substances from being provided to or introduced, held or used by individuals. Member States will continue to be able to grant exemptions for certain substances. It may be mentioned that some of the topics can be used by private individuals to connect with various forms of hobbies, such as radio-controlled model vehicles. However, the possibility of derogation will be more limited with the new EU regulation compared to the first EU regulation, which came in 2013. New to the regulation is also the obligation to report suspicious transactions and significant disappearances and thefts of explosives precursors, which are now being extended to more actors. In addition, there have been calls for, among other things, awareness-raising measures and increased supervision. Unfortunately, Madam President, we have seen several cases, such as the terrorist attacks in London, Madrid and Oslo, where homemade bombs have led to many dead and injured and a major material destruction. It is therefore in the public interest to ensure, as far as possible, that these substances do not fall into the wrong hands. The committee therefore welcomes the EU regulation on stricter rules for the handling of explosives precursors and endorses the proposal for legislative amendments. I therefore support the proposal contained in the report.
