i-4fce5c301724d2d7-4	Mr President, I would like to The media have taken great leaps in recent decades, both in terms of technological development and in terms of how information travels across the world. As we know, the Internet has enabled the individual media creator to make himself heard, and large media companies can now reach a global audience more easily than ever before. Media consumers can now greatly access media content from another location in both time and space whenever they want. It is a fantastic development that in many ways strengthens our democracy. It is positive that video-sharing platforms are included so that they too need to relate to the regulatory framework that exists in relation to advertising, accessibility adaptation and the protection of children and young people. The proposal we are debating today makes the legislation more technology-independent in some parts. The discussion about external influence through soft power is alive. A media image dominated unilaterally by another state or actor, including entertainment media, can distort citizens' understanding of their own society. In Sweden it is clear that some groups mix, for example, American history and community building with their own. During the debate on BLM, for example, certain groups set the same mark between American and Swedish police. It is problematic in general if, in some cases, the population is more familiar with parts of the reality of a different society than in their own reality and the conditions under which they themselves live. Based on a desire to maintain a reasonably smooth balance of power, it is understandable that the AV Directive establishes a content requirement for European content for streaming services as well. We understand the ambition but not how the content ratio will solve the problem, while the proposal goes too far in other respects. The emergence of legal streaming services represents important progress for people's access to content on their own premises, and I would say that the new rules restrict freedom of expression and information. The content quotas are already met by most of the global streaming companies, so the quota would not have a significant impact on the content itself, but only on the freedom of companies to choose the content of their services. The proposal on content regulation is counterproductive of the opportunities brought about by the technological developments of recent decades in the media sector. The government itself has previously stated that quotas restrict the independence of the media and editorial freedom. Content quotas and seeking to regulate, through legislation, information for the population are not a sustainable path. It is more natural to look at how content creation can be promoted in Europe rather than trying to set minimum quotas. The idea of freedom is carried here by us and the Liberals. It is strange that other parties who tend to accuse us of wanting to restrict the freedom of the media so quickly accept proposals for content regulation. All the EU is proposing is not good, and there is a limit to what restrictions on our freedom we can accept. We know that the government actually agrees with many of them, but here the EU apparently weighed more heavily than freedom. The Government proposes that public service broadcasters, if they wish, should be able to request that the permit condition for respect for the privacy of the individual be removed from the broadcasters' broadcasting licence. At the same time, the Government considers that the possibility in the Broadcasting Act to reconcile broadcasting permits with conditions that in broadcasting activities respect the privacy of the individual should remain. It shall be up to the Press, Radio and Television Authority to decide on authorisation to change when public service broadcasters request the removal of a condition. The government's argument on the issue is contradictory. On the one hand, the new media ethics system is too untested to be removed from the Radio and Television Act, and on the other hand, the government wants to enable the requirement to be removed in the broadcasting permits. The government also points out that there is a risk of ambiguity when trials in certain cases can be carried out by two bodies. It may be unclear to individuals which body to turn to, and double trials may lead to different outcomes, which of course creates ambiguity. We agree with the Government that the new media ethics system is too untested to be removed from the Broadcasting Act, and we agree with the Government that parallel public service review bodies can create ambiguity. On this basis, the logical conclusion is that public service broadcasters should not be included in the new media ethics system, that is, contrary to the full participation that the government wants to facilitate. It is far from obvious that public services should be included in the new system because they have mandates and requirements for themselves from the public. The specific requirements of objectivity and impartiality may concern issues of respect for the privacy of the individual. Public service is funded by the public, and it is more justified that elected representatives impose far-reaching requirements for transparency on the Audit Board than for the same requirements on a private law organisation. At the same time, it is problematic for a private law organisation, such as the Media Ethics Board, to play a significant role in the review of publicly funded activities. It is the citizens who must govern how the common resources are used and how they are followed up. In addition, it will be clearer if the Audit Board carries out all public service audits. This also eliminates the risk of double-examination of whether or not public service has shown respect for the privacy of the individual. Finally, Mr President, it is important for the government to reflect on its proposals. Perhaps you don't care as much about the freedom and independence of the media as you usually do for the chest. Finally, I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 1 in the report.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-18	Mr President, I would like to The AV Directive, the joint regulation of audiovisual media services by Member States, has been updated, and Swedish legislation is now to be adapted accordingly. It is an update that takes place on the basis of changes in the media market. We consume media in a different way now than before. We look less at tableau and more at on demand and play. It's new platforms, it's new apps, it's bigger choice, it's other formats and so on. The changes made by the EU in its directive are reasonable adjustments to a new era, and the changes made by the government to the directive are also good and reasonable. Even in times when we watch television, listen to radio and other things in a different way than before, it is reasonable to protect minors. It is reasonable to have rules against incitement to violence, hatred and terrorist crimes. There is also a need for an accessibility ambition in the future, and it should of course be very high. In this way, Mr President, this is welcome both for the EU to update the AV Directive and for Sweden to make good adjustments accordingly. Mr President, I would like to Let me say a few words about what Aron Emilsson calls soft power. It is incredibly important to see that there is a soft power in the form of media. Of course, those who control the media also have great control over the stories that exist in a society and over what is considered normal, what is normalized and what becomes structures that we are expected to follow. That is why media policy is incredibly important to a society. Those in control of the media also largely control the debate and perhaps also control politics in a way that we often do not see. We should think more about this with soft power. We also need to think more about what is happening to Swedish democracy and the Swedish debate when an increasing proportion of the audiovisual discussion is conducted on platforms that are international and global. That's an interesting question. What happens, for example, if those platforms come into the hands of a company controlled by a state that is not democratic? 7 Of course, we need to discuss all of this, and there is a need for rules on how the AV will work in the future, but there is no need for rules to promote European productions on television and on-demand television, Mr President. The EU is now demanding 30% of European content in media companies' content, and we on the Liberal side think that this is deeply unfortunate. It is not a task for politicians either at national or EU level to determine the proportion of productions to be produced in a given country. It is one thing for the media company and its consumers to decide how much it should be and what the balance should be between different production countries. The Liberals therefore believe that Sweden should take the initiative to renegotiate and initiate an audit of the AV Directive on this point. We need to promote Swedish film production and we need to promote Swedish production in many other ways, and several countries are now promoting film production, for example, by introducing production incentives for film. Sweden should do the same, but we should not quota and not regulate. Mr President, I would like to The report also raises questions about how the media should be examined. Above all, there are some aspects of respect for the privacy of the individual. We heard just how the Swedish Democrats are proposing to stay with the old. I welcome, on the Liberal side, the new path that has now begun, that the media themselves create a system of their own in order to control this and how to clean up what should not exist and assess what has existed. I believe that it is important to move away from policy in this area. There was a constitutional investigation that did not reach all the way to constitutional protection of public service, but I think that when this did not happen, we need to think about how we can in other ways secure the importance of the fact that politics has arm's length distance from the media, not least when it comes to scrutiny. You can do this in different ways. On the one hand, I think we should continue to look at how to set up the boards of the Foundation. It should not be the case, for example, that those who are employed in a parliamentary office should be able to sit there. Consideration should also be given to what the review should be like and whether steps can be taken away from the policy there too. Today's review is governed by a regulation, which allows a government without a majority in parliament to change the composition of an audit board fairly quickly. I think it's wrong. Instead, this should be passed on to law so that when making such changes you should at least check that you have a majority for it in Parliament. It would give a inertia in the system, and it would reduce the government's power over the audit board, which I think is reasonable and correct. In addition, consideration should be given to how to avoid active politicians in this area as well. I also believe, Mr President, that it would be reasonable to protect against sudden resignations on the Board of Review precisely to ensure that, for example, a minority government that wants to change the review in one way or another cannot do so without having first reconciled with Parliament as it must when changing a law. Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-31	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved in the committee's report. As the speakers before me have mentioned, this is a question of implementing the EU's Audiovisual Services Directive into Swedish law, as well as some other issues for modernising the Radio and Television Act. Hence the title of the report. As colleagues have explained what the matter is, I will not go into it, but I will comment on a few questions in the report. The media area has changed rapidly both in terms of the way we access the media in terms of technical solutions and in terms of how the media is used. If we look out into the world, we see examples of authoritarian powers who understand that their ownership of power depends on control over media policy – control over what can be said and what cannot be said. Spreading disinformation to shape people's views, closing oppositional newspapers and directing the content of public services are examples that we see around the world. At the same time, we have social networks that allow more people than ever to access information and express their opinion, but there it also spreads false matter. Mr President, I would like to A basic condition for democracy to be viable is that citizens are able to enjoy the diversity of media available and of independent and factual news, and that they are given knowledge of what kind of information they are receiving. The proposal focuses on important issues relating to this very issue. One example is that the Swedish Media Council is tasked with identifying and reporting measures that have been taken to promote media and information literacy. Another proposal is accessibility requirements for persons with disabilities in relation to certain services. Mr President, I would like to I would like to make a few reflections on the proportion of programmes of European origin, as has been the case in this debate. As we have heard, the proposal represents a quota of European content. It's not entirely unproblematic. During the negotiations on the amendments to the Directive, Sweden opposed quotas for European content in view of the fact that they restrict the independence of the media and editorial freedom. Unfortunately, Sweden does not win a voice for its position in all EU negotiations. However, we should remember that radio and television law already imposes certain requirements on the obligation to provide European content. I think it is important, as the Committee on Culture points out, that we should examine the impact of the AV directive's demand for 30% of European content. For the Swedish part it may not be that extensive, but search is still important. Then there is the question of a new media ethics system. Media operators, i.e. not just anyone but the media actors in Sweden, have themselves decided and agreed to establish a new media-ethical self-regulation system that includes issues of publicity damage to individuals. That's very good. The public service companies have joined the media ethics system, which means that a review of publicity damage to an individual can be examined both through the Norwegian Research Council and via the media ethics system. This is a system that may become problematic, so the government also proposes that the investigation of publicity damage to individuals should instead lie on the media ethics self-regulation system. Mr President, I would like to One of the most important questions of principle I would like to highlight in this matter is to strengthen the independence of the Board of Auditors. I fully share Christer Nylander's views. This is done through the proposal that a member of Parliament, a minister or an employee of the Government Office should not be allowed to be a member of the Radio and Television Audit Board. Mr President, I would like to We need to take more steps to further strengthen the independence of public service throughout the chain. The legislative amendments are expected to enter into force on 1 December, but, as I said, the media area is changing rapidly, and Swedish legislation, including the legislation we are dealing with in this matter as well as our constitutions in the form of the Freedom of the Press and the Freedom of Expression Act, has a very technical detailed content. This means that these need to be kept under constant review and updated. One can think about whether that system is good and whether we as legislators need to think more technology-neutrally. We have tried to do this in the proposal in this report. For who knows what the future holds? What we do know, however, is that we are likely to need to modernise the radio and television teams again soon.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-45	Mr President, I would like to This report, which deals mainly with the implementation of the AV Directive by the European Union, raises a number of concerns about what could have been done better and which could have been improved in a negotiation in the European Union. For the Moderates, it has been important to ensure that the Swedish position has been sound and correct, that it has promoted a multifaceted and prosperous media landscape and that culture has been able to be as free and independent of political governance as possible. In many important parts improvements have been made along the way, but as the colleague from the Social Democrats said earlier, it is not always the Swedish positions that reach all the way through. This has also been the case this time. There are things that hurt, such as the demand for European content. However, there are also important things in the report, such as the independence and scrutiny of our media landscape, where possible further steps may need to be taken. It has been important for the Moderates that the report and the proposal on which it is based have not been a step in over-implementing an EU directive. Many times before, when implementing an EU directive, Sweden may have taken a little too much from its toes. You should always be the best in the class. It has been important for us that this form of over-implementment has not been the case here. From what we can judge, it has not been. That is why we support the proposal in the report as it stands. There are other thoughts about how we may need to develop our media landscape in the future. It is about ensuring that more technology-neutral legislation is in place, that the audit works, that the independence of public services is secured and that public services are being developed to become even better than they are today. Of course, we Moderates are positive about this and we support it. We look forward to continuing constructive dialogues on how to take further steps in the different directions, respecting the independence of the media and the independence and survival of culture. Politics must always have a safety distance to that form of soft power. Mr President, I would like to A prosperous media landscape is based on the principle that freedom creates well-being. Increased regulation does not create so much well-being. It's been proven many times before. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-51	Mr President, I would like to When Erik Ottoson said all that stuff, I thought I'd cut myself. I agree, in principle, with everything, except perhaps how parts of what were said absolutely at the end could be interpreted. In fact, this is the implementation of an EU directive which, as Mr Erik said, does not do more than what needs to be done. The whole Committee on the Constitution was in agreement with the negotiations on changes to the directive that the directive, in particular the 30% regulation for European works, was bad. All parties in the Riksdag agreed with Sweden's position. One might wish that it had also had an impact, that is to say that we would not have a 30% quota. But it didn't succeed. It can also be said that we should then initiate a renegotiation. You could do that with every thing you're not very happy with. The problem is that such a negotiation can take two ways. There is quite a lot to suggest that we would probably not be successful without the risk of an even greater quota for European production. The question is whether that is where we should put energy and energy into the media area in Europe. Me and the Left Party don't think so. That is why we support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-61	Mr President, I would like to We Moderates welcome a proposal on civil protection. There is a lot that needs to be steered up in terms of governance and management. We have seen this during the major crises in recent years, such as the major forest fires in 2014 and 2018. The rescue services made remarkable efforts, but shortcomings in the responsibilities, management and coordination of emergency services were also revealed. In the bill, however, we lack proposals that make it easier and easier for the talented people around Sweden who are constantly prepared for drowning accidents, forest fires, floods, chemical emissions and burning cars – the list can be made long. Speaking of burning cars, did you know that an electric car that has burned must stand for two weeks with a radius of ten meters from combustible materials? It could start to burn again. The emergency services shall keep an eye on such matters. Swedish rescue services are very much dependent on part-time firefighters. There are about 10 000 of the 15 000 firefighters we have in Sweden. I think that part-time firemen in rural and small towns are particularly important. It is often not possible to have full-time staff there. We Moderates believe that it is essential for civil protection personnel to have reasonable conditions for employees, so that it is possible to recruit and retain both full-time and part-time firemen throughout the country. We therefore propose that part-time firefighters should be exempted from the a-cassage rules. During the current pandemic, it has become clear that it cannot be like today. A part-time firefighter who has a regular job but loses it can't get unemployment benefit because the amount you get for being a part-time fireman and being prepared gets too high. Then you can't get a full unemployment fund. It is quite unreasonable that part-time firefighters should be forced to terminate their duties as part-time firefighters for such economic reasons. The staffing situation is urgent. In some cases, emergency services risk losing up to one third of their workforce. This really highlights the need to improve the conditions for an important part of Sweden's civil protection. We have a shortage of firemen. They're heroes that we should be celebrating, not punishing. That is why I am pleased today that the committee supports the proposal that makes this possible. Mr President, I would like to When the very worst happens – death in the service – there is today a survivor's protection that does not correspond to the risk these people take. In order for the surviving family to be able to get it reasonably financially decent the first time after a death, therefore, very often collections from colleagues and others who provide financial assistance are needed. It shouldn't have to be like that. Society must be there for those affected who have had relatives who, in turn, have been there for society. A review of the survivors' protection of civil protection, police and military personnel killed in the service is therefore needed. Issues related to civil protection are important. The municipalities' own prevention and civil protection action programmes are now decided in each municipality's council. The Moderates agree that there is a great relevance in making the documents more appropriate and uniform in order to develop their quality. But it feels really remarkable that the current proposal means that the programmes will no longer be adopted in the municipal council. The proposal highlights that this is a problem when decisions on these programmes are sometimes taken late in a term of office. Can we not simply make demands when the programmes are to be adopted rather than taking away the decisions on them? These are important issues, which is why we are calling for this part of the bill to be rejected and propose that this should remain, that is to say that the programmes should be adopted in the municipal council. These issues need high status and should be highlighted by a municipality's highest decision-making body. The questions need to be given the status they deserve. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates support the proposal, but they call for a rejection of two points. We also put forward a number of proposals in which we believe that the government has not gone far enough. We propose that the Riksdag reject the Government's proposal in Chapter 5. Section 1 states that MSB shall assume supervisory responsibility for municipalities' compliance with the Act on Protection against Accidents and Regulations issued in connection with the Act. The county administrative boards already have a great deal of knowledge about local work in the municipalities. They have already established roads and established emergency units. It does not feel resource efficient that MSB would build a whole new organization. Nor is it okay from the perspective of double roles. In that case, MSB would both issue regulations and then interpret and apply them. Nevertheless, the Moderates believe that there must continue to be a clear mandate for the state to be able to enter and take over the civil protection services of the municipalities in order for there to continue to be a clear possibility for the highest level to exercise crisis management if necessary. Organisations must also be reviewed. To some extent, there must be different forms of organisation as municipalities look very different and have different challenges. At the same time, however, organisations must be equal and, as far as possible, uniform in order to meet the requirements of individual civil protection and its interaction with different actors. Increased equivalence and consistency simplify cooperation with MSB and other actors when they need to enter and lead or support major rescue operations. The Moderates therefore want to see an investigation that carries out an in-depth analysis of the civil protection organisation. It will make proposals on how organisations could be more effective and equal. In this context, it is important to define what a level playing field is. It does not look the same in Flen as in Haninge or Åre compared to Sundsvall. This investigation should also consider cooperation with other actors. For example, it could be business or something like what has been introduced in Medelpad – enhanced fellow human beings – or at home in Haninge, where we have civilian workers at Södertörn. The forms of rescue protection should also be developed and strengthened. The issue we are discussing today is also about forest fire control. We Moderates believe that there are more opportunities for early detection of fires if you patrol regularly. This increases the conditions for preventing threatening forest fires more quickly, before the fire spreads. This is done to some extent today through some county boards supported by MSB. But it's far from everyone. We therefore want to review the possibility that the state can fully finance forest fire protection with the help of local aviation clubs. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates obviously support all our reservations, but for time-winning, I'm in favour of just one reservation. It is a bit tricky when several of them are connected, such as reservation 3 under points 3 and 5 under point 6. In conclusion, however, I would like to say that I agree with paragraph 3 of the motion for a resolution.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-77	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has recently been affected on two occasions by serious forest fires. We had the big fire in Västmanland 2014 where the damage to the forest was extensive. But homes also burned down, and buildings were damaged by fire. Worst of all, however, was the occurrence of personal injuries and the loss of a life, with terrible consequences for those affected. In 2014, the Government appointed a forest fire investigation to be reported in autumn 2015, but the Government changed its mind and decided in early 2015 to give the investigation new guidelines. Instead of finding out what lessons can be learned from the management of the forest fire in Västmanland County, the Government considered it more appropriate that the Swedish Civil Protection Agency was given the task of identifying the measures that should be taken in order to strengthen society's emergency preparedness. The investigator's mandate was therefore limited to describing and evaluating only the operational operation and other work carried out in connection with the forest fire. However, the recommendations made were not translated into the necessary proposals and changes. Nevertheless, with the support of various organisations, volunteers and other countries, the relevant authorities managed to deal with the fires in summer 2018, without extensive damage to other than forests. It is of the utmost importance that recommendations from the post-fire investigation in 2014 together with experiences from summer 2018 are now being put into practice. A clear management organisation and division of roles is of great importance. The conditions of command in the event of major fires above all must be clear. It is especially troubling when fires cross county boundaries. We therefore welcome the fact that the Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness is now to be given greater powers to take on a coordinating responsibility upon request. The chain of command and the interaction between different organisations under different scenarios need to be prepared. Regular exercises are needed to ensure that everyone involved has understood their role. The same applies to the importance of practical exercises in the field, where also local organisations including farmers and landowners practice with their respective equipment. MSB had the ambition to increase knowledge about forest fire extinguishing, and carried out a special effort in 2019. On seven occasions, forest fire training was conducted with a total of over 200 participants, mainly from municipal rescue services but also from the Swedish Armed Forces and the Coast Guard. Hats off for that initiative! Mr President, I would like to There is also a need to develop better procedures for handing over after the extinguishing of a forest fire. According to the law, it is the landowner who is responsible for watching and any after-extinguishing during the weeks after the fire. In reality, there is always a risk that the landowner is not capable of doing this, and so it is very common for fires that were apparently extinguished to flare up again. The fact that forest companies have an organisation to monitor and extinguish fire on their land should be taken as a starting point. In the case of individual forest owners, the Forest Board or other authority needs to ensure that the capacity exists. It is also important that voluntary forest fire surveillance by air is maintained and strengthened until there is another system in place, perhaps by guarding with drones. Many of the sport airports used by these pilots and aircraft are at risk of closure. Thus, the proximity between forest and airport and also the local knowledge that many volunteer fireguard pilots possess. In addition, a thinned network of small airports means that the extension of the extension of the connection of the fire aircraft will, of course, make the extinguishing work more difficult. The Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency has had and has a collaborative function between different authorities. We are in favour of this and of the Authority taking greater responsibility as a coordinating authority for civil defence and emergency preparedness. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 9.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-88	Mr President, I would like to Every day Swedish men and women make heroic efforts to fight fires, manage accidents and save lives. Nearly 16 000 of these heroes are firefighters in Sweden. Of these, about 10 700 are part-time employees. The figures speak clearly: The system of part-time firefighters is a supporting part of the Swedish rescue services. Let me come back to this vital element of civil protection a little later in my speech. The Center Party seeks competent civil protection throughout the country and strengthened protection against accidents and forest fires. It is therefore very welcome that the government finally, six years after the major forest fires in Västmanland and two years after the many and extensive forest fires that the summer of 2018 ravaged in Dalarna, Gävleborg and Jämtland County, left a bill on the Riksdag's table on how municipal rescue services can be more effective. This is welcome, but we regret that the measures have not been implemented in the past. The experience already existed in 2014 after the fires in Västmanland. They would have been able to lay the foundations for how a more efficient municipal civil protection service could have been designed, including in terms of the ability to manage and collaborate. Had the proposals been on Parliament's table before, the consequences of the fires in the summer of 2018 could have been reduced. Sweden is not well equipped enough for us to feel safe in the face of future large and complex forest fires. This is the conclusion of the evaluation of forest fires in the summer of 2018, when it was once again found that Sweden's overall fire-extinguishing resources were insufficient. However, the evaluation also showed that the prevention and preparation of forest fires by municipalities must be improved. State support for municipalities to do so must be improved. Let us state that the municipalities have a key role to play. It is the municipalities that are responsible for both the operational civil protection efforts and the preventive work. It is the municipalities that are to adopt municipal action programmes and carry out risk and vulnerability analyses and who are responsible for translating results and experiences into practical activities. It is the municipalities that must dimension civil protection so that it can scale up if necessary but also interact across both geographical and organisational boundaries. There it sometimes breaks today. People's access to security and security varies according to where they live in the country. Many of the measures now proposed by the government are good and necessary, including in terms of the design and content of the action programmes. It is also good that the government strengthens and targets accident prevention and supervision and that the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness, MSB, is tasked with prioritising and allocating resources. With the government's current governance and the support it can provide for municipalities, the opportunities for equal protection against accidents across the country can be improved, while there is room for local solutions to the nature of cooperation and organisation. In the past, the Center Party has been exercising on clearer government governance in the Action Plans, on strengthening supervision and state aid and on the need to introduce an accident prevention target. We were also the first of the political parties to demand that Sweden's fire-extinguishing capability from the air needed to be improved. We are pleased that Sweden has now secured this ability through MSB. After both the large fires in Västmanland and the fires in summer 2018, evaluations have been made. In between, a civil protection investigation has also been presented. Many suggestions have been made on how to strengthen accident prevention work in municipalities. These include civil protection and the fight against forest fires. There is much to be done from the national side too in order to strengthen the capability and make civil protection equal. The state can further support municipalities in taking preventive responsibility. If done properly, this can lead to better conditions for municipalities to direct their own activities in the field of prevention against accidents and forest fires and civil protection activities. The Center Party therefore wants to see both better government governance and clearer state support for the municipalities for civil protection and protection against accidents. It would be of great value to work if the status of prevention could be enhanced by the introduction of a national target. This provides a clearer focus on prevention and support for municipalities. We also want to give MSB a mandate to steer more clearly what the municipalities' action plans and civil protection management documents should contain. Then the quality will be higher, and the governance documents will become more concrete based on local risk picture and possible to follow up. It is about the state clarifying the governance in order for the municipalities' activities to be better and more efficient. It would provide better conditions for adequate protection and for people's access to security and security throughout the country. We also want to improve the supervision of protection against accidents. More effective enforcement can prevent deficiencies in preparedness for major forest fires. Municipal civil protection is essential for a safe and equivalent municipal civil protection service throughout the country. Effective government supervision can also have an impact on the municipalities' ability to cope with major forest fires. The Center Party also wants to give municipalities better opportunities to use resources and expertise in forestry, agriculture and construction companies in civil protection operations. Municipalities should have the opportunity to make agreements with others to take initial measures in the event of a rescue operation. The forest fires of 2018 showed that volunteers in agriculture and forestry, for example, and entrepreneurs were a very important resource. We are convinced that this resource can contribute further to the municipalities' forest fire preparedness with the right conditions. Today, as a general rule, staff belonging to the municipal civil protection organisation must be employed by the municipality. An exception must therefore be included in the legislation. Other actors must also be valued, such as non-profit forces and civil society's resources and readiness to act. The experience of recent years has shown how essential these can contribute to a collaboration when the forest fire is a fact. The training of emergency services personnel takes place mainly through MSB's training courses. These are given at different levels. It is important for the equivalence in the country that civil protection training is provided to an extent that corresponds to the needs of municipalities for trained personnel. The Center Party wants to see a specialist training for firefighters in how to best combat forest fires. More training places for firefighters also increase the state presence around the country. We in the Center Party support our reservations, but today I only support the Center Party's reservation 13 in paragraph 20. Let me return to the important group of part-time firefighters. It is a special job carried out as an extra job alongside a regular job. The staff supply of part-time firefighters has been one of the biggest problems in Swedish civil protection in recent decades. In order to improve the conditions for part-time firefighters, we want MSB to be given a special task to support the municipalities in staff recruitment of part-time firefighters. We also want to review certain other rules that are not adapted to a job as a part-time firefighter. We are pleased that the committee has been able to agree on a declaration to the government on the need to urgently review the possibility of granting exemptions in the a-cassage rules for part-time firefighters. The Center Party's proposal to strengthen civil protection and strengthen the capacity to prevent and manage major accidents and forest fires means that the state takes greater responsibility to ensure that the municipalities have the tools they need legally. Overall, this provides better tools for equivalent protection throughout the country.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-104	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are debating the Government's proposal for a more efficient municipal civil protection system. The proposal comes from the big fires we had in Sweden in 2014 and 2018. These were events that were uniquely large and serious but which we know will happen again as a result of climate change. Over the past year, we have seen huge fires in Australia and California as a consequence of climate change. Civil protection is a pillar of security and security in our society. It is the emergency services, together with the police, that in peacetime makes us feel safe and secure in our society. It is therefore incredibly important that the activities we call the blue light operations are not exposed to the kind of serious crime we sometimes see and interference that exposes the staff to risks that prevent them from continuing their important work. Such attacks really need to be stopped and countered with preventive work in which the population learns to understand civil protection activities and may see and take part in them. Preventive work is also the most important method of stopping fires. Many times, small simple measures that each can do at home are a way to make our lives much safer. Don't forget to check your fire alarms at home on the first Advent, which is the big fire alarm control day! It is also incredibly important that accidents are prevented in school by, for example, much better swimming education than we see today. There is a reason why very many children and young people have firefighters as one of their dream jobs. Everyone who works in civil protection, which is a very risky job, is the heroes of our society. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party agrees with the Government's proposal that civil protection should be more effective. After the major forest fires, the evaluations showed that emergency services did not have sufficient resources to cope with large fires. The Government's proposal is to impose higher demands on emergency services so that there is a management centre that is staffed around the clock, which of course is very good. But it requires resources. The emergency services are now municipal. There could be a rescue service in each municipality, 290 of them. That's not really the case. There are 152 different emergency services in Sweden. This compares with the fact that we have a single police authority and a single defence force that will take care of the whole of Sweden. In order to fulfil their mission, many municipalities have therefore voluntarily joined together in larger organisations, such as municipal associations, or entered into various agreements between municipalities. The Left Party is therefore of the opinion that a municipal rescue service today is actually only municipal on paper. We see that the reality in the country is that emergency services are operated in smaller or larger regions outside the usual levels of municipality, county and state that we have in the country. It provides a difficult-to-transparent civil protection service with many different models for how the work is done, and we risk getting inequality across the country. A municipal association is also much more difficult to govern politically. The Left Party therefore believes that the proposal does not solve the problem of the effectiveness and equivalence of civil protection services because it has not wanted to look at governance. We believe that governance needs to be reviewed. We believe that municipalities may not really be the best level of governance for emergency services. We may need higher-level governance and management, perhaps in regional models with a little larger civil protection regions that we have in our neighbouring country Finland. We are seeing today how emergency services are forced into mergers in order to carry out their missions. The Government's proposal places higher demands on emergency services. This means that emergency services will have to work together. But you don't show in the bill how to do this. Mr President, I would like to There is also a very bad change in the bill that we in the Left Party take very seriously. I call it a surreptitious privatisation of emergency services. The Left Party is strongly opposed to the transfer of important social activities to private companies. It is a debate in itself. It is about democratic control, stopping the pursuit of profits and having a robust society in which the public governs, leads and has responsibility. There is a proposal in the bill that municipalities should be able to leave it to someone else, such as a private company, to take initial limited measures in the event of a rescue operation. Several referrals are critical, and the Left Party wants to reject this and remove it from the bill. It is already possible for people other than civil protection to take initial action today. It is obvious that both individuals and professionals in different ways should be able to participate and begin to be able to extinguish a fire or save lives. For example, it may involve using a hand - fire extinguisher or throwing out a lifebuoy. You don't need an agreement to make those measures when the situation is urgent. We believe that the Government's proposal opens a back door for commercial companies to go in and take over parts of civil protection activities. We know that private companies, such as security companies, are in the wings waiting a bit to enter this type of business as well. It is not appropriate for security companies to be sent out to emergency services and alarms. It requires training and the right equipment. It is the emergency services that have it today. The Left Party supports the wording currently contained in the Act on Protection against Accidents. It is clear that it is the public sector that is responsible for civil protection and is responsible for planning and carrying out civil protection. Bringing private alternatives and companies into this would create major difficulties with transparency and accountability. There is uncertainty as to the confidentiality of private operators. In order to ensure equivalence throughout the country, in all city districts, and to have transparency without profit, it is necessary that civil protection continues to operate fully in the public domain. The Left Party is therefore in favour of our motion for a resolution No 2 in the report on this very subject. Mr President, I would like to On the other hand, we are very pleased that we have obtained a majority in the committee to demand that the government resolve the issue of unemployment insurance for part-time firefighters. In Sweden there are over 10,000 part-time firefighters. That's a very large proportion of the firemen we have in our country. They have a different profession alongside and are a firefighter in their spare time and may be able to leave their job if there is an alarm. The involvement of part-time firefighters and voluntary efforts are crucial for us to have a safe society. I would like to express my great gratitude for all the efforts of part-time firemen alongside their usual occupation. The fact that we are now jointly calling on the government to resolve the issue of unemployment insurance for part-time firefighters is very good, but that is not enough. We also need to improve working conditions and increase the salaries of civil protection personnel. It is a very risky mission that is both physically and mentally stressful. They work with high pressure in a dangerous environment, and sometimes they are surrounded by shocked or aggressive people. It is a job that requires much better working conditions and higher wages than we have today. It's crucial for us to be able to recruit firefighters in the future. Mr President, I would like to I look forward to being able to debate civil protection more often here in Parliament. I hope that the government will come back with an investigation concerning precisely the governance of civil protection. Until then, I would like to express my great thanks once again to all the civil protection personnel who are doing an incredibly important job in our society.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-121	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are debating effective civil protection. These are urgent issues. The entire Swedish people remember the fires we had two years ago in the summer. There were huge areas on fire. I think about them in Jämtland, in Dalarna and elsewhere. It's easy to forget how big a space it was. That was 25,000 acres. What is now 25 000 hectares, Mr President? That is equivalent to 38 000 football fields. It had burned four years earlier, 2014, which has been mentioned here. Then it was in Västmanland, not far from here. At that time, 14 000 hectares were burned, equivalent to 25 000 football fields. There was enormous damage to landowners, and there were tragedies. What we can say is that we were not ready for 2018. If there is one thing that is certain, it is that disasters will unfortunately happen again. That is why, Mr President, we need to improve. That is why it is so important that we draw conclusions and ensure that we are better equipped the next time it happens. A number of points have been made and raised in the debate. I would like to add a few things that we particularly want to lift. One thing is helicopters. Everyone understands that helicopters are of enormous importance in large fires. But we have seen that the resources we have are not being used. Because we do have resources. I'm thinking about the Armed Forces. They have up to 50 helicopters – real machines, thank God! They are used to some extent, but they could be used more if possible. We would like the Swedish Armed Forces to be given the task of planning to help and that they should receive compensation for it. Then we could use their helicopters. Let me take an example. This applies to the buckets that the entire Swedish people saw when they were used in the fires. The Swedish Armed Forces' Black Hawk, for example, can take 2,500 litres, while the smaller private buckets used – and they are good – can take considerably less, perhaps only 300 – 400 litres. Therefore, we should make sure that we use the resources we have in the best possible way, and an important part of this is to change the legislation. There is another thing that may often be forgotten, namely the Swedish Maritime Administration. They have seven helicopters, and they are approved to have the hook that you can use. But it's never been in place. Although this has been pointed out time and again, nothing happens. That's beneath any criticism. Let me take another example. On one occasion there was a fire outside Visby. You could see the fire from the Swedish Maritime Administration's helicopter, but you couldn't do a thing. This is pissing people off, right? We must ensure that this is addressed. Helicopters are something precious and something that costs a lot of money. Then we must make the best use of these resources. That is why the report highlights this. Another important point that has been raised here concerns the firefighters. There are 16,000 firefighters in our country who are doing an amazing job. 10 700 are part-time firefighters. A part-time fireman must be able to leave his regular work at five minutes' notice at alarm. For easy - to - see reasons, then, it is difficult to find part - time firemen. There are great demands on his or her regular working hours. Unfortunately, the difficulty of recruiting part-time firefighters has also increased recently. On top of this difficult balance has now been added to the problem in connection with covid-19. Many part-time firefighters have been laid off from their regular jobs, and in order to get their entire unemployment benefit, many of these newly unemployed part-time firefighters are forced to quit their firefighter jobs. This is a completely unreasonable effect of the unemployment fund's rules. The Christian Democrats now believe, together with a majority in committee, that the government must resolve the problem as soon as possible. There is no reason to further worsen the situation, and this is a piece of legislation that needs to be reviewed. That is why we are pleased to see that this has become something that the whole committee supports in a declaration. The Christian Democrats are, of course, behind every reservation we have in the report, but for time to come, we are only calling for reservation No 8.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-133	Mr President, I would like to Sweden, as we all know, is a large country, both on the surface and in terms of our administrative division with 290 municipalities, each responsible for civil protection within its geographical area. Both of these facts – the large land area, of which about 70 per cent is also forest, and the municipalities' far-reaching responsibility – create some challenges in the work of efficient and equivalent civil protection work. Regardless of where in the country you live, you should of course be able to expect help if you have an accident, if the house is on fire or if your forest is in flames. It is a fundamental part of the social contract. Although civil protection is, to a large extent, and should be, a municipal matter, adapted to local circumstances and conditions, it is therefore natural for the state to take overall responsibility to ensure precisely equivalence and efficiency. It is precisely equivalence and effectiveness that can be said to be two key words in the report that we are discussing and debating today. In order to strengthen Sweden's capacity in these areas, the Government proposes legislative changes in order to promote stronger government governance of the municipalities' preventive activities and civil protection. It proposes a clearer management organisation requiring municipalities to maintain overall management of civil protection. It is also proposed to strengthen supervision and support as well as opportunities for the Swedish Civil Protection Agency (MSB) to prioritise and allocate available reinforcement resources from a national perspective under certain conditions. Mr President, I would like to The need for these changes was put in lightning during the summer of 2018, when Sweden experienced exceptionally many and large forest fires. The fire risk was extreme in almost the whole country. One example is from forest fire aircraft, as a common summer notes around 100 forest fires but in summer 2018 noted 500 fires. In Gävleborgs, Jämtlands and Dalarna County there were large and difficult fires. For some of us who live in or near the affected areas, the fires came very close, both concretely and emotionally. Around the country, as many have already done, heroic efforts were made to combat the fires. However, ex-post evaluations have shown that the conditions for effective work differed according to how civil protection was organised. In my county of Jämtland, for example, the conditions on paper may seem quite challenging. The county consists of eight municipalities, which make up 12 per cent of the country's surface area. We have 31 fire stations, only one of which consists of full-time firefighters, and we have eight rescue defences. But in spite of this, what it may seem, rather fragmented and geographically dispersed activities, the Jämtland Rescue Service Association is usually highlighted as a model in how the work against forest fires was carried out. The most important conclusion is that civil protection had a developed system management system with management centres and internal staff on call that enabled operations to start quickly and efficiently. Conversely, it became clear that emergency services that are not part of system management were less able to quickly launch operations. As the state investigator Jan-Jan-Åke Björklund says, if you have system management, it's about minutes, if you don't have it, it's about days. ..................................................... One key point, Mr President, in the report is that all municipalities must maintain an overall management of their civil protection services. Another important change is that MSB is given a clearer mandate to prioritise and allocate these resources in large-scale rescue operations where there is a competing need for reinforcement resources. This could, for example, be about helicopters. The Authority may request state authorities and municipalities to provide information on the resources available and to participate in the rescue operation with these resources. We know that in some cases MSB's actions have come into conflict with county boards' responsibilities. It is therefore important to clarify the role of MSB in this regard. Another change is that MSB takes over the responsibility to support municipalities with advice and information and assumes supervisory responsibility for municipalities' compliance with the Accident Protection Act. It is a task that currently lies on the county administrative boards. Over the years, there have been several signals, for example in review reports from the Swedish National Audit Office and Statskontoret, that supervision and support to the municipalities are not working satisfactorily. On the one hand, supervision has been carried out far too rarely, and on the other hand it varies in competence between county boards. Given what I mentioned at the beginning of my speech – that Sweden is a large country consisting of 290 municipalities with fairly different conditions and variations – it is of course crucial that the state ensures that supervision is of a high and uniform quality throughout the country. At the same time, it is important to emphasise that the county boards generally have valuable knowledge of local conditions. In order to avoid that county boards lose skills that are also needed in the broader work on crisis preparedness and civil defence, the government intends to allow county boards to retain funds corresponding to the costs of supervision activities. The summer of 2018 was extreme. However, climate change risks making it more extreme in the future. In various scenarios that SMHI has calculated, Sweden will suffer from longer periods of extremely dry weather during an average summer. I believe, Mr President, that we humbly note that the forest fires both in 2014 and, above all, in 2018 gave us a lot of expensive experiences. This concerns the possibility of coordination, the pooling of flying extinguishing resources and not getting caught up in administrative boundaries. In several areas, such as in the field of fire-fighting and the availability of additional consumables, major improvements have already been made. With this report, Mr President, we are taking further important steps to ensure that Sweden is better equipped next time the accident has arrived. With this, I support the proposal.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-152	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Social Democrats about what I talked about quite a bit in my speech – that this bill opens up for other actors to enter civil protection. From the Left Party we see major problems in this with both transparency and confidentiality, but also with the fact that a socially important business becomes more difficult to control if you bring in other actors. It is a change in legislation that this bill brings – in a situation where you can actually already have others helping in emergency services. We know that, above all, from further out in the countryside, where we have, for example, defence and the possibility of civil society helping in a good way. Of course, on the Left side, we are concerned that there is a risk that private companies, such as private security companies, will enter this business. Then there'll be a win hunt, and then it'll just be bad. How do the Social Democrats view such a development?
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-156	Mr President, I would like to I think that we can all agree on the importance that, once the accident has occurred, we should be able to take action as quickly as possible. I'm turning a little against this perspective. As I said in my speech, I myself come from a county that represents 12% of the country's surface area. It's a huge distance. It is not always to be expected that emergency services are the fastest. Here in central Stockholm you can expect the emergency services to be in place very quickly. This is not the case in all parts, but it may be other actors who have both the will and the ability to quickly start an operation. We think it is reasonable to be able to use those abilities – to a limited extent, of course. This is not about transferring an entire civil protection operation to someone else. It is clear in the bill and clearly in the law that it is still the municipalities that have overall responsibility. However, one important conclusion from the fires of 2018, for example, was that we as a country need to be better at harnessing society's collective capabilities in this area.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-159	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I ask the question again: how do the Social Democrats view the risk that private companies, such as a security company, want to enter civil protection activities? They're thinking, we're already in place, and we already have the uniforms. We may not have a lot of knowledge, but we can help. How do the Social Democrats view such a development? Or is it not at all a risk that we will have such a development in the future with the change in the law that this bill gives us?
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-161	Mr President, I would like to We see local examples of this already today, where, for example, guardians have the opportunity by contract to make initial efforts if they are early in place. We have no fundamental point of view on this at this stage, as long as it is clear that the ultimate responsibility always lies with the municipalities. You can't outsource this business to anyone else. On the other hand, it is important to ensure that the overall resources are used. Especially given that Sweden is a very large country and that there are such huge variations between municipalities and between counties, especially when it comes to distances and emergency times, it is important to take advantage of the abilities that exist. This could be an industrial activity where you have extinguishing equipment and expertise within the business and could contribute and help in an accident outside the area where the industry is located. We see that possibility and the strength of it. Taking advantage of the collective resources of society is the important thing in this context. But we'll never begin to doubt where the main responsibility lies. It is also very clear in this bill.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-166	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the reservations of the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats on this issue. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish labour market is characterised by major matching problems. While more people than ever need help to enter the labour market, recruitment problems are large and employers do not find the right skills. A well-functioning matching and ability to give the unemployed the right input and activity will play a central role in addressing the challenge facing Sweden. The efforts announced so far by the January parties are insufficient, and the major problems we see in the labour market with high unemployment, while employers do not find the skills they seek, cannot wait for a solution. In the Swedish National Audit Office's report that we are now considering, it is clear that the government's governance of the Swedish Public Employment Service is not working. At the same time, the government has spent a lot of money on subsidies with no or almost no effect. The problems of brokering have existed for several years. We therefore believe that reform of the Public Employment Service is essential and that the government in its future work must have a clear focus on improving precisely this. In the light of these facts, we believe that the Government should immediately take steps to ensure that the reform of the Public Employment Service is carried out in a well-thought-out manner to ensure the effectiveness and equivalence of the Public Employment Service's mediation activities. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to ask a question in the light of the January parties' promises to reform the Employment Service and to reform the LAS, the Employment Protection Act. These were, of course, items 1 and 2 on the list of demands and promises of the Center Party, in particular, for the January negotiations. On Sunday in SVT's Agenda, we saw that the Centre Party's spokesperson began to retreat from the promise of reform of the LAS – although in the same breath he claimed that the Centre Party had renounced ministerial posts in order to get this particular demand through. That is true, Mr President. My question, therefore, is whether the promise of reform of the Public Employment Service is now on the way to retreat. I would like to hear that later in this debate, when the Labour Party's spokespersons enter the speaker's seat.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-174	Mr President, I would like to I'm really just going to turn around. I am satisfied today with the approval of our joint reservation.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-175	Mr President, I would like to We are in the midst of a serious pandemic, which is extremely damaging to people's lives and health. But a lot of people also see their businesses, their life's work disappear, and a lot of people are worried about their livelihoods and about perhaps no longer being allowed to remain in the working community that they have enjoyed. The labour market situation has worsened extremely rapidly during the year. Between March and August this year, some 384,000 people registered as unemployed with the Employment Service. But Sweden also has long-term problems with the labour market. Both the number and the proportion of the unemployed in vulnerable positions have increased over a long period of time, resulting in a highly divided labour market. During the recent boom, the labour market development of natives with education has been quite good, but very weak for vulnerable groups in the labour market, such as non-Europeans born and those without completed upper secondary education. According to the latest evidence from Arbetsförmedlingen, the proportion of registered unemployed with so-called weak competitiveness has been around 70 – 75 per cent of all enrolled. The group is expected to reach almost 300 000 people in 2021. In the group of foreign born, the situation is particularly worrying for women. The unemployment rate is over 20 per cent, and the employment rate compared to native women is low 62 per cent, according to the Employment Service. With these figures, it is clear, Mr President, that despite a difficult situation, the Employment Service must deliver as efficiently and accurately as possible. An effective labour market can only become a reality if each individual gets the right input at the right time. This is central to the job seeker and the person in need of labour, but also to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent in the best and most effective way. The review that the Swedish National Audit Office has carried out and that we are debating here today is relevant for achieving this. The Swedish National Audit Office has therefore looked at whether there are differences between the working methods and results of different employment intermediaries and finds that there are differences and that the attitudes and working methods of individuals have an impact on the effectiveness of the mediation work. The job mediators' task is to assess the job seeker's needs, provide support and, if necessary, allocate various measures that strengthen the skills in different ways. The individual administrator has a wide margin of discretion to decide on the type of assistance the job seeker needs. There are, of course, advantages to this because the needs of job seekers are so different. But just as the Swedish National Audit Office's previous review of Arbetsförmedlingen's matching work shows, there is too much variation in how well the employment intermediary succeeds in getting the applicant into work and activity. It turns out that intermediaries do not always choose the most effective working methods and that applicants do not receive an equivalent service. It is a problem that Arbetsförmedlingen does not follow up if job seekers receive equivalent service. The fact that the agency does not follow up on the working methods used in the business makes it almost impossible to evaluate and then develop them. Here we can only go back to a previous review of gender mainstreaming of integration policy that the National Audit Office presented last year. It clearly showed that newly arrived women, to whom I am now coming back, do not receive an equal service and are not met with the same expectations. Thus, they participate significantly less in various preparatory activities compared to men. Whether women are low or highly educated, they are more often excluded from employment than men. Of course, it is not just an authority that should be burdened for this. The racism of low expectations has for too long permeated Swedish integration policy in general. But it is a reality that should not be accepted and something the government really has to take on board and do more about in the reform of the Employment Service that is to come. Mr President, I would like to In its report, the Swedish National Audit Office makes a lot of recommendations to the Swedish Public Employment Service to ensure that costly efforts are conveyed more coherently and more accurately, so that it does not depend solely on the individual's attitude and commitment. This should be done through more thorough follow-up, internal training and so on. The Swedish National Audit Office, on the other hand, chooses not to address the Government with its recommendations this time. But, Mr President, we do. I therefore support our reservation, which stresses the need for the Government to do more to ensure the efficiency and equivalence of the Employment Service's mediation activities and to ensure that this works significantly better in a reformed employment service.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-188	Mr President, I would like to In a series of reports, the Swedish National Audit Office has examined Arbetsförmedlingen and if the agency is sufficiently effective in communicating jobs to job seekers. It can be noted that these reports, or reviews, carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office, show, among other things, that Arbetsförmedlingen's methods for brokering activities are on a weak knowledge base and that the agency does not have a systematic way of following up the work carried out at local offices by individual employment intermediaries. The mediation lacks exchange of experience between intermediaries, and many intermediaries want more collegiate learning between the various offices. Mr President, I would like to The report we are debating today also clearly shows that the internal training aimed at intermediaries has a limited element of the exchange of experience and knowledge on the impact of the different working methods. I think that this review, as well as the previous reviews that the Swedish National Audit Office has done, is important. It is important knowledge, and it is important that the shortcomings of the agency are lifted and that we have the opportunity to discuss this and to address these shortcomings. Mr President, I would like to Employment services have played a key role in implementing labour market policies for a long time. We note, however, that over several years implementation has failed in efficiency. In line with what we have agreed in the January Agreement, the Employment Service will therefore be reformed to improve the effectiveness of labour market policy activities. There is broad political consensus in this House on the need for reform of the Employment Service and the need for the Agency to focus on its core tasks and build expertise on them, for a more effective and effective labour market policy. Mr President, I would like to A well-functioning labour market that takes advantage of people's skills and willingness to work is the basis for Sweden's welfare. Everyone who can work should work, contribute and take responsibility. For us Social Democrats, it is important that a job seeker who needs support to find a job should be able to get it, no matter where in the country you live. But, Mr President, the coronap pandemic has hit the Swedish labour market very hard. We are in the most serious crisis in the labour market in modern times. But let me be clear that the unemployed are not alone. Unemployment is not just a problem for someone who loses his job but is something that concerns us all. That is why we should not allow unemployment to bite down. In the budget for next year presented by the government and the cooperation parties, jobs are in focus. It is a historic budget with large investments of over SEK 100 billion. Overall, the budget, including investments for climate change and investment in welfare, is estimated to create around 75 000 new jobs. Mr President, I would like to The person who loses the job will get the support they need to reset and get a new job. People should be equipped for good jobs, and we should take advantage of the potential of all people in Sweden. That is why the efforts we make in labour market policy are so important. As I mentioned, the budget also includes a comprehensive package of SEK 11 billion for measures to ensure financial security, strengthen skills and improve job opportunities. Let me mention a few words about this. Mr President, I would like to We have also introduced an unemployment fund for more, with higher remuneration, under the coronapndemin. The working conditions have been adjusted downwards and a fast track to membership has been introduced so that more people are covered, especially part-time and hourly workers who have not previously been able to receive compensation but who can now qualify. Now we extend these reinforcements of the unemployment fund to 2022. For example, we do not think that the person who lost his job during the pandemic or at Polarbröd should have to sell the house. You should be able to pay the rent while you are looking for a new job, and you should be able to buy new football shoes for the children. Sweden's employees should not have to become poor because of a virus or a fire. There should be financial security while changing to a new job. Mr President, I would like to If you become unemployed, you should be able to get support and support regardless of where in the country you live. Therefore, we propose initiatives in the budget proposal for next year aimed both at ensuring the work of the Public Employment Service here and now and at steering the agency in line with the direction of the reform. In the budget, we propose increased administrative resources to enable Arbetsförmedlingen to manage more unemployed people to be enrolled and to ensure that there is an appropriate local presence and equivalent service throughout the country. The employment agency will thus continue to have the conditions for an increased number of employees next year, which can help to meet the sharp rise in unemployment. We are also investing heavily in labour market training in order for more people to get to work. In this way, more unemployed people can be trained to take jobs in shortage jobs. Mr President, I would like to The whole of Sweden has gathered together to cope with the new coronavirus and reduce the spread of infection. Hundreds of thousands of jobs have been saved through crisis measures such as short-term lay-off, on which Parliament has decided. But the crisis has exposed serious shortcomings in our society. Every human being who has passed away is a tragedy. Every termination is a loss. That is why we now have a historic opportunity to create jobs and at the same time address our societal problems. We will build our society stronger than it was before the crisis. We will do this through investments in health care, care for the elderly and climate change. This creates new jobs, so that every person is involved in building our country stronger than before. Finally, there are many of us who had hoped this spring that we could return to normal this autumn. But we're not there yet. We are still in a pandemic, and that is why we all need to hold on to saving lives and health. At the same time, we must do everything we can to mitigate the effects of the crisis in the wake of the coronapandemy. With this, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject the M, KD and SD reservations.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-205	Mr President, I would like to For about two years, I met a rather young worker. He grabbed me at one of the many seminars that we politicians take part in, a bit from reality, and wanted to take me back to reality. He was one of those private, external actors that some on the left tend to say negative about. He said: Martin, you have to understand that the most important thing I do is that I really dare to believe in the individual. He was careful to say that many who work at Arbetsförmedlingen also dare to believe in the individual in the meeting with the unemployed, but he said that it is far too common for those who meet the unemployed to see them as a problem, a burden and a difficulty. He said: I try really hard throughout my body language and in everything I do convey that the people I meet are an opportunity, that we do this together and that I believe in them. Interestingly, this is also the most important conclusion in the report from the Swedish National Audit Office that we are discussing today. We are also discussing a lot of other things, so I would like to remind you what the debate is basically about. The conclusion, then, is that a positive attitude towards the unemployed is absolutely crucial, not least at the moment in Coronatids. The Swedish National Audit Office has produced a number of interesting reports that indicate that it works well in support and matching, although we think it should be further improved, and so does the Swedish National Audit Office. Report 13, which we have discussed here before, stresses the desire to tighten it up further. In this report, I think the important thing is that we are able to focus on opportunities and optimism throughout the whole set-up and in all meetings with the unemployed, especially when so many for so long have said that people are hopeless and impossible. Then I will now have to devote most of my speaking time to everything else that has been raised in the debate. I would like to start with what is closest to hand, namely the reform of the Employment Service. I would like to emphasise that precisely for the reasons discussed in several of the Swedish National Audit Office's reports, the reform of the Swedish Public Employment Service needs to be continued. And to the question of whether we have retreated from it, which was put here in the debate, the answer is that we have only retreated to the extent that the Moderates together with the Left Party have delayed it by a year. If I had had to wish, we would have stood here in the middle of the pandemic and had an employment service that is the best possible and as effective as possible. Given that we have not retreated, we have used the time to do so as carefully and properly as possible with certified participants in the reform. There have been both tough controls and incentives to achieve the best possible results. In the coming years, we will face up to the pandemic in order for Arbetsförmedlingen to have maximum capacity. We have said: All hands on deck! Let's increase external matching players with tough demands and clear incentives to deliver lasting jobs! This should be an increase that is faster than before, with 2.7 billion– almost 3 billion– which is the biggest increase so far. We have seen that they have contributed a lot during the pandemic, and they can do even more. Then that is not enough. We have never said that this is the reform, but it will come the following year according to the plan that has been presented. So it does not come next year, but the following year. But it's still a ramp up. It has also been asked here in the debate whether we have retreated from the reform of labour law and, in particular, from the issue of flexibility in the transition. This has now been the subject of a thorough and balanced investigation and of the negotiations between the parties. There our message is clear: had the parties agreed, we would have taken their suggestions. However, as they did not agree, we now have an excellent, solid and balanced investigation to be carried out. Then I think we all need reasonableness at this point. If Sweden's largest trade union and the Confederation of Swedish Employers have jointly said that they want an agreement and that they are behind it, I think we must have the patience to at least listen to what they want. It is great that they have reached an agreement. It's actually historic. It's a huge responsibility. Then we also have a great responsibility to listen to them. I would like to see it in this House saying that you do not want to talk to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. I know, by the way, that the Moderates will talk to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, and you will certainly also talk to PTK. Anyone who is not prepared to listen to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and PTK in this situation, I would like to see his hand raised. No, we're gonna take our responsibility, and we're gonna listen. But we are moving forward with unabated effort to carry out this solid and balanced investigation for the many people who need jobs and transition.
i-K8tq6jsQRrkDaLGMnhTSxR	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Martin Ådahl, for this message! We're discussing Arbetsförmedlingen here today. I note that it is said that reform will continue. Perhaps that is not really what we are hearing from the government side in the January agreement. We, the members of the Committee on Employment, Social Affairs and Citizenship, note that the Centre Party has been quiet on this issue over the past year, to say the least. I would also like to remind Martin Ådahl that the Group leader of the Center Party, Anders W Jonsson, thanked us Moderates for having broken out in a positive way the proposal that the reform of the Employment Service should rest on the LOV, which is, of course, completely headless in both the current situation and the current situation. However, I take it as a promise that the importance of reforming the Public Employment Service is still being maintained, and that this may possibly apply to all parts of the parties that entered into the January agreement. It would also be interesting to hear more about the time frame that has been promised in the past with regard to the reform of the Public Employment Service and whether it will be held, Mr President. Then I thank you for the clarification that it is the LAS investigation of Toijer that is to be carried out. It started Martin Ådahl by saying, but then he began to retreat from it. He began to lose himself in talking about agreements about what to do here and what to do so. I would also like clarification here. So you will carry out the Toijer investigation in its entirety, as promised?
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-223	I would remind you that the debate concerns the Employment Service.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-224	Mr President, I would like to I'll try to stick to today's topic as far as possible. I am being accused of a lot in this House and in the media debate, but I have not been directly accused of having been quiet over the past year. It was a new accusation, which I note with interest. With regard to the question of reforming the Employment Service, it is very clear in the wording of the budget, as I mentioned, in all other communications, in the regulation letter and in the Employment Service's own communication that the reform will take place. It's extremely important. We share this view with full force, even if it did not sound that way before. This is very important. I also understand that you are keen to keep the new timetable and not delay this further – we thank you for that – and that there are no plans to join forces with the Left Party, even if they have a new party leader in the future. I hope that's the case. Then I would like to ask a question back when we have this change of line– I am sorry, Mr President, that this is the case. This has nothing to do with the subject, but since it is raised in the debate, I ask the question: Can it be assumed that the Moderates and the Left Party do not join forces in the matter of labour law? Everything I hear in this debate and in other contexts gives me a strong impression that you will not do so, but that, on the contrary, you will be behind the investigation that we have launched and which is important for Sweden. Then I would like to take the opportunity to ask, because it is questioned: Are you going to listen to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and PTK when they ask us to listen to what they want to do with their main agreement?
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-230	Mr President, I would like to Now that Martin Ådahl is also commenting on labour law, I cannot help but do so. The Moderates of course believe that the investigation should be the base plate. It must not be watered down. Then we absolutely advocate changes beyond that, but they cannot be done at the expense of watering down the base plate. It's not my place to stand here and talk for the Left Party. However, if the Left Party would like to join any of this, of course we will not say no to that. At this point, however, I find it extremely difficult to see that this could happen, if I say so. Mr President, I would like to I still assume – I did not receive an answer there – that the Center Party will demand that the Toijer investigation be carried out in its entirety. Then it's about Arbetsförmedlingen. The reason why we ask the question is perhaps that we have noted a certain silence from Martin Ådahl, who has a big and very honest drive on that particular issue. It is clear that the silence that we have observed for quite a long time in relation to the reform of the Public Employment Service has led us to ask legitimate questions and to have legitimate concerns about how this is actually going to happen. But once again, the timetable that you have laid down will apply. I assume that anything else would be totally unacceptable to Martin Ådahl and the Center Party. Martin Ådahl talks about the government's regulation letter to Arbetsförmedlingen. Yeah, that's kind of the problem. The Swedish National Audit Office's report notes that this governance has been completely substandard. That is unacceptable. If reform is to succeed, it is necessary not to do anything to sabotage it. It is also necessary for the Center Party to assume its responsibility to be a nail in the eye of the government here.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-237	Mr President, I would like to I will try to talk a little about this report in a few seconds. Yes, it is a common theme of the Swedish National Audit Office that the regulatory letters have been too unclear and too general. That is why I am pleased to note that we have now tightened up the regulation, including on an issue which is hardly discussed today, just by the previous speaker, namely the local presence. There we have done much more stringent formulations and follow-up. And we will continue to do so until the local presence improves, which is not yet a fact. I just want it said. In addition, we have tried to improve governance at all when it comes to the Public Employment Service, so that there is clear information about what you want to do. This has not been the case before we came into the picture. I am very grateful for the information given by Mats Green: you do not want to go along with the Left Party on labour law. They do not want to do so, and they insist that they want this reform. It is even behind the investigation that we have pushed forward. We think that is very positive, and we thank you for that. Sometimes you get the impression, from among others the Left Party and the debate, that you have formed some kind of common front and are prepared to bring down the government on this issue. But this message is very positive: you do not reason that way. We do not need to demand that the investigation be carried out, because it is already in the agreement that is the basis for the government. We are in the position that this is what we know and that is what we are pushing and sticking to with unabated power. We're going to do this. There is a very precise timetable for this. But, Mr President, we must all have, just as the representative of the Moderates had, humility and respect for the fact that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the PTK have taken a great responsibility. They appeal to us to wait for information on how to deal with the continuation of this.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-241	Mr President, I would like to I have first written in my speech: It may not sound so exciting to debate a letter on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the effectiveness of the mediation activities at Arbetsförmedlingen. I knew that we might end up in a debate on the Employment Protection Act and the Toijer investigation, which is in fact already a passé. But I'm going to return to the question of Arbetsförmedlingen. It is worth pointing out that this somewhat spiritless letter from the Government concerns one of Sweden's largest and most important authorities. It is also an activity that most people understand has gained even greater importance in connection with the coronapndemine. Regardless of what you think of the observations from the Swedish National Audit Office in this report, I mean, the government's answer or perhaps rather non-answer how Arbetsförmedlingen has been put into a kind of limbo. The answer, which amounts to just over ten lines, contains the wording that we have seen in a number of other contexts when the government is to meet questions about and views on Arbetsförmedlingen. It is written: The substantive political agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party states that the Public Employment Service will be fundamentally reformed. It's a central sentence. In the actual context, it means that the government and the cooperation parties do not really know what they are doing and that they do not care very much either, at least not right now. After all, there is an overall, purely ideologically motivated and extremely ill-thought-out idea that the Centre Party and the Liberals have pushed into the January agreement for the Public Employment Service to be privatised and commercialised. As you know, that has encountered a lot of obstacles here in Parliament and not least in the country, in reality for job seekers and for the Employment Service staff. After all, we in the Left Party gathered support to push for a stop to the tox privatization of the Employment Service, and that the planned and unplanned chaos could in any case be postponed a little bit, I even think that many in the January parties – perhaps not precisely those who are present in this Chamber today but out in the wide world – think that was good, not least with the facts in hand regarding the pandemic, which made and places new demands on the Authority. It is also the case that the very big problems at Arbetsförmedlingen, created by both the M-KD budget that was approved after the elections and by the actions of the January parties, are there and deepened. When the Swedish National Audit Office in this report has concerns about the working methods of the labour mediators, it is worth noting that it will be a little pointless to discuss this issue further, because the main track now is that there should be no employment intermediaries at all. That's what the situation is like. Arbetsförmedlingen's staff are working hard to deal with a new situation with many more alerted and unemployed people. They should be registered and have a first contact, but instead of continuing work, the unemployed should thus be assigned to a supplier who will start the process over and then get paid for it. Mr President, I would like to Unemployment has increased sharply as a result of the pandemic. At the same time, we know that demand for labour is increasing in some industries such as health care, grocery trade and more. In some sectors, the need for trained staff is more permanent. According to a forecast from Arbetsförmedlingen, in five years' time there will be no 100 000 people with the skills required by employers. Other forecasts that also take into account the need for high-quality welfare services and a growing number of older people point to a multiple increase in demand. Of course, the most important thing for meeting unemployment is strong investment in infrastructure, climate change and welfare services. But there is also a need for a substantial effort on the opportunity to learn new things and to learn about them. Some such proposals have finally been made by the government, and that is a good thing, but in order for the necessary expansion of the conversion policy to be successfully implemented in practice, more than in a long time a competent, coherent and geographically present employment service is needed. We know that there are a lot of people in the authority who are doing and have made great efforts. It is their competence that is now being attacked both actively and through failure sins. It's that skill that's thinning out. It is this competence that flows into the sand through the actions of the government and the January parties. We need to gather together as a society in order to make the best use of our common resources, and then the ongoing abuse of the Public Employment Service by the January parties appears to be particularly irresponsible. It is a bit typical that the representative of the Center Party here spoke of the fact that it was established that optimism among the labour mediators was a good thing. I do not think that any worker who has followed this debate and the actions of the Center Party and who saw Martin Ådahl in the speaker's chair today has reasonable reason to feel any optimism about anything if it is Martin Ådahl who will govern politics in the future. Now let's see if that's the case, but I think that's true of many of those who are struggling and working out there to help people go on. Moreover, what was not mentioned here is that it is concluded that although optimism or activity towards job seekers plays a role in the outcome, it does not matter whether or not they are passed on to private operators. This is something that is stated in the same report, but unfortunately it fell into the comments of the Centre Party representative. Unfortunately, in the motion from the Moderates and Christian Democrats, there is also no description of problems and solutions for the Employment Service that we can sign. Although we may find a broad consensus on the fact that it is unclear what the Center Party is doing on these issues, I cannot therefore endorse that motion. In this case, instead, we subscribe to the government's minimalist non-responsiveness. In our budget motion, which is soon to be discussed in this Chamber, the Left Party has developed its view of the Public Employment Service. We will all have to return to the debate on labour market policy in general and the Public Employment Service in particular.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-257	Mr President, I would like to Finnes: well-trained engineers, architects and economists. In this case, however, it is still another one. Finnes: brave employers who give new people in our country a way into the labour market. This is not a fictional advertisement but a description of Jobpånget, an initiative launched by, among others, the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences to match, for example, newly arrived engineers, architects and economists with employers who need people. This is real today. Last semester, 160 job seekers were offered internships through Jobpånget. By the time they arrived at Jobpånget, they had sent in a total of 32,000 job applications – on average 200 per person – without getting a single bite. Then we talk about well-educated people, often with work experience from their home countries. After four months of internship through Jobpånget, 70 percent had got a job. This shows that it is very important to have a working match. It is not enough to have job seekers; employers must also match them. The same is shown by the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the effectiveness of the mediation activities. What leads to success in brokering activities is when employers actively tip jobseekers about job vacancies that could suit them. The Swedish National Audit Office calls it a search activity-based approach. Good match, I'd call it. Mr President, I would like to It is positive that the report shows that there are employers who successfully solve the complex task of the agency. But it is clearly worrying that the report also shows that Arbetsförmedlingen does not systematically monitor the operations and implement the methods that work best, widely throughout our country, so that more people will feel the freedom that it is to have their own livelihood and a job. Knowledge exists but is not used. It is also worrying that according to the report, the Public Employment Service either grants too many expensive educational efforts or grants these to the wrong people. That is why it is important that the reform that we are now implementing in the framework of the January Agreement and that in this reform we recognise the shortcomings that exist and create systems that lead to better matching and greater efficiency. We cannot have a labour market with high unemployment on the one hand and a shortage of labour on the other, as we even saw during the boom that we have now left. For us Liberals, it goes without saying that what is needed to succeed in the future are actors who really become a bridge between those who are looking for jobs and those who are hiring. Only then will we deal with the matching problems that we have long seen in the Swedish labour market. The fact that more people will support themselves, that more children will see their parents go to work every morning and that more companies will be able to grow thanks to finding the right workforce is our labour market policy and the goal of the reform of the Employment Service that we are now in the midst of together with the other January Contract Parties. 32,000 job applications without bumps must not be the norm. I support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-268	Mr President, I would like to It has been so long since I was in the speaker's chair that it is hardly I know how the technology works. But now I'm here anyway! We are going to debate the letter on the ILO's centenary declaration for the working life of the future, which we will then decide to add to the documents. Mr President, I should like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved. The ILO, founded in 1919 and just recently turned 100, has produced a centenary declaration. It is a manifesto on how to look at the future of the labour market. 17 points set out how, above all, the ILO, a body in which Sweden is a member, should focus its work and contribute to a fair transition to the working life of the future and thus also a fair and sustainable future. The declaration is based on three parts, and they are a partnership between the government and the social partners in order to achieve a better working life. The three main points of the declaration are to strengthen the capacity of all people to take advantage of opportunities in a changing working life, to strengthen the institutions of working life and to ensure the protection of labour law, and also to promote inclusive economic development and productive employment with decent working conditions. These should be words of value for all of us in this House. Then, of course, the way there can be a little crooked. It is also very important that the decisions taken by the ILO should be ratified in the Member States; core conventions and standards. I was not going to be long-winder than that, but I am in favour of the committee's proposal to add the letter to the file.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-275	Madam President, I would like 100 years ago, workers stood in the harbor with their hat in their hand hoping to get a hit for the day. You could call it an early version of the gig economy. The word gig comes from the music industry, where musicians often lack permanent employment and instead get to take a job at a time, that is, a gig. There is no fixed workplace, and you rarely have direct contact with the company or with your colleagues. Instead, the company connects you with a private person or another company in an app that orders a service from you, such as a food delivery or moving furniture. Since salary is paid per assignment, there is no guarantee of how many hours you will work for a week or a month. You are not employed by the company you work for, but the companies often expect that those who work for them are self-employed. In this way, they do not have to deal with the labour legislation that applies to ordinary employers, and then they evade responsibility for everything that happens at work. There are no sick days or holiday benefits. No one has missed Sydsvenskan's reporter Dan Ivarsson, who recently has wallraffat as a bicycle messenger. For 70 SEK per hour + 20 SEK per delivery, before tax, Ivarsson cycle as a fool through Malmö. Without prior notice, work shifts are extended or shortened. The bids get employment contracts for only a month in the run, and those who cycle a little too slowly can get fired. You must be very quick to keep this job, says the manager to Dan Ivarsson. You have to be top 50 percent, or you have to quit, write another boss in a text. Evening and weekend supplements do not exist. You have to pay for your bike yourself, and you have to pay for the repair if you get a flat tire. Flexibility and efficiency are a major part of the gig company's marketing. If you work in the gig economy, you should be prepared to spend a large part of your time in standby while waiting for a chance to get a new job. Gig companies have no obligation to provide a single paid hour of work for their workers because they have no official employer status. Madam President, I would like The gig economy is here to stay and expand into more and more industries. It is a development that includes the entire labour market worldwide. It means that new gig companies take over the market and also that companies that have previously offered traditional jobs choose to use similar business models and forms of employment. Madam President, I would like I believe that the ILO's centenary declaration does not sufficiently highlight the challenges that risk weakening workers' security in the future labour market, such as the development of the platform economy and market-liberal reforms. In order to shape a fair, inclusive, secure and modern working life, the challenges need to be highlighted and addressed in a much clearer way. This is a responsibility that I believe the government must take within the framework of ILO cooperation. However, the declaration is an important political expression of the future's working life, and it is a step in the right direction to meet the challenges of the future. That is why I have chosen to welcome the declaration and support the government's assessment. But, Madam President, the questions remain: what kind of working life are we going to have in the future? Should we have a hat-in-hand-good-day factory-working life where people can be laid off during the day and don't dare stand up for their rights? We've tried the first option before, and it didn't go well. Then we had widespread poverty, misery, low productivity and the highest number of strike days throughout Western Europe. The debate on the working life of the future is, to say the least, highly topical in Sweden. It is believed that labour law needs to be modernised to meet the working life of the future, and it will be easier and cheaper to lay off workers. Then employers dare to hire more. Madam President, I would like There is nothing modern about increasing job insecurity. The workers need more security, not less. The working life of the future should mean secure employment and decent conditions for all. The new sectors emerging in the platform economy must be regulated. Secure employment and decent wages and conditions shall apply to everyone regardless of the industry.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-289	Madam President, I would like We are here today to debate the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy NU8 The Commission's White Paper on foreign subsidies in the internal market. After the debate, we will take the decision to add the statement to the documents so that the Parliament Administration will subsequently send the statement for information to the European Commission and to the Government Office. Madam President, I would like My expectation that the Government Office is reading the report is somewhat limited, and my expectation of the European Commission is non-existent. Nevertheless, it is of course a good thing that we report public opinion in Parliament and are now debating the matter. The Swedish Democrats are largely behind the committee's position but fear that they have limited their views on possible supervisory functions. The White Paper proposes that both the Commission and the Member States designate regulatory authorities, with coordination mechanisms to ensure the coherence and effectiveness of the respective enforcement measures of the different supervisory authorities, since the sharing of powers between several enforcement authorities is the best guarantee that the most distortive foreign subsidies are detected and managed effectively. In this way, both the Commission and the Member States could use their respective strengths to ensure that the distortions caused by foreign subsidies are properly investigated within the EU. According to the position that the government consulted with the committee on 22 September, it is considered that a post-examination of foreign subsidies with the Commission as the sole regulator is the most feasible and effective measure to solve the problem of foreign subsidies. We do not exclude that this could be the case, but would nevertheless stress our view that the creation of a Swedish supervisory authority, in addition to the Commission, should not be excluded at this stage.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-293	Madam President, I would like The proposals in the White Paper aim to ensure fair competition and to address distortions in the internal market caused by foreign subsidies, i.e. from third countries outside the EU. The rules must be proportionate, non-discriminatory and legally secure and not hinder foreign investment within the EU or lead to higher administrative costs than necessary. It is of the utmost importance that the EU's development is based on long-term competitiveness through a level playing field between countries and between companies. The Commission believes that openness to trade and investment is part of the resilience of the economy, but that it must go hand in hand with fair and predictable rules. We choose to create a motivational reservation in order to emphasise the importance of competition in the internal market not taking place at the expense of labour law or environmental protection. Competition on equal terms must include that companies do not compete by exploiting people and the environment. This development is not feasible. On the other hand, there should be competition in research, development and quality improvement, as well as in how companies meet needs and how they work with the environment, labour law and human rights. This must accompany us when we discuss the internal market and trade policy, and it should also be a priority. We in the Left Party support the committee's positions but have a motive reservation. I'm in favour of it.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-297	Madam President, I would like Today's debate on the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs NU8 is therefore about the Commission's White Paper on foreign subsidies in the internal market. We Social Democrats are fundamentally behind the opinion and are in favour of the proposal. Without being ludicrous, I think many agree that some of the parliamentary debates here in the Chamber are not always very poppy, and this debate on the Commission's White Paper will probably not be an exception to the rule. However, it is important, because in practice it is about our jobs, our security and our economy. Although today's debate is about the White Paper and therefore also about the need to regulate the internal market, I would like to start with the bigger picture. I would like to say a few words about free trade as such. In essence, trade is good for Sweden. Our country is small and export dependent. It is not really surprising; international trade is about some countries being better at producing certain things and specializing in them, while others produce other things. The theoretical conclusion is that everyone gets it better because we get access to better and cheaper goods and can sell what we are best at producing to others. Of course, the world is not that simple, but basically this is right and proper. Trade leads to prosperity, trade leads to work and trade leads to better products for Swedish consumers. Protectionism and customs duties do not benefit either Sweden or the Swedes, but instead our country and the EU benefit from strong, open and competitive trade. Sweden is, as I said, a small and export-dependent country. Before the crisis, 1.4 million Swedes went to work thanks to the export industry. The absolute majority of our trade goes precisely to the internal market of the European Union. Trade in goods and services has also increased explosively since Sweden joined the EU. That this is very good for Sweden is most agreeable. Madam President, I would like Just as Sweden is dependent on trade, so is the EU. Trade accounts for almost 35% of the EU's GDP, and an estimated 35 million Europeans are linked to exports. The EU is also the world's leading global destination in terms of direct investment, and 16 million Europeans go to work linked to direct investment. Having said that, it is clear that trade is important for Europe, but it is also important that trade within the EU's internal market and within the framework of free trade agreements is fair and that non-EU states do not distort competition through different types of state aid. That is what the Commission's White Paper is about. This is, of course, a difficult balance, but the issue is important. It is not only important to us in this House, but also important to us as workers and consumers – and to us as citizens. My feeling is that there are other European countries that want to take more far-reaching protectionist measures, and I consider that to be very serious. In the era of populism, free trade is now beginning to be called into question, and for some the debate on foreign subsidies may be a pretext and a golden opportunity to push forward the protectionist agenda. We Social Democrats will never participate in this, even though we must not be naive to foreign threats in our world. Having said that, we cannot discuss free trade in a vacuum either. There are winners and losers in free trade. One of the reasons why Swedes in general are in favour of international trade is that we have security systems and conversion systems that deal with the fact that there are just winners and losers in free trade. That is why we Social Democrats believe that it is a better way to ensure that there are robust security systems with reasonable compensation for the sick and the unemployed and that it is better than introducing far-reaching instruments that make trade more difficult. There is therefore much evidence to suggest that the social pillar may indeed be a bastion of the EU's fundamental values regarding the free movement of goods and services. The reason I am addressing this in this debate is that it is an important battle in European politics. Without security and conversion systems, people risk losing faith in free trade and losing faith in the EU's internal market. That is why security, transition and free trade are intertwined. Madam President, I would like More specifically, the Commission proposal contains three modules dealing with different types of distortions of the internal market, namely foreign subsidies, the acquisition of businesses and public procurement. We believe that the solution for future proposals to be as effective as possible should focus on the Swedish free trade line, on ensuring a good business environment and on ensuring that public procurement should not be delayed or increased. Therefore, our initial value is that the focus should be on smart ex post testing of foreign subsidies with the Commission as the regulator. In order to ensure that the new rules discussed in the White Paper are not too comprehensive or incorrectly designed, a clear description of the problems and impact assessment by the Commission are needed. We see that this does not exist today. In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to emphasise three points. Firstly, it is clear to most people that the support for free trade is decreasing. This is a problem, and that is why we need a strong policy of security and change in Europe. We need that in order to keep protectionism away. That is why we need to discuss the social pillar when we talk about the European project if we want to safeguard the internal market. In short, Europe needs to become more equal. That is the only way we can protect both trade and prosperity. Secondly, we must not be naive in the face of the threats facing Europe. Therefore, some form of ex post examination of foreign subsidies is reasonable. However, it is important that these measures are effective and balanced. Thirdly and lastly, we must not allow protectionism to take hold in Europe. This White Paper on foreign subsidies can be a step in this direction. We believe that it is right, important and necessary to pursue a free trade policy and a functioning internal market that leads to jobs, growth and prosperity. Madam President, I would like In the long term, if we are to secure support for free trade and the EU's internal market – and this has been understood by international organisations such as the IMF and the OECD – we need to strengthen cohesion in Europe. We Social Democrats lack this perspective in the White Paper. We believe that this is the key to the future success of trade in Europe.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-315	Madam President, I would like A White Paper is the first step at EU level to boost ambition in one area. In this case, it is a question of foreign subsidies in the internal market, which is envisaged to be legislated on in the future. In doing so, the Industry Committee gives its opinion. In this context, it cannot be stressed enough that our country is a small, trade-dependent country which is geographically far north in Europe and which competes in a global market. As we have heard before, great values are affecting, and many people are involved. In 2019, total goods exports amounted to SEK 1,518 billion – that's a staggering amount. Imports of goods amounted to 1,501 billion. The value of trade in services amounted to SEK 721 billion for exports, and for imports of services the total was SEK 705 billion. Direct investment assets abroad were just under EUR 3,700 billion. Direct investment assets in Sweden were just under SEK 3,200 billion. That is why our country's long-standing objective of EU trade policy is to have an effective internal market and an open trade policy. Trade in Europe is about great values for Swedish companies. The EU objective needs to create conditions based on a level playing field where neither European nor non-European companies can give themselves nor gain undue benefits. The White Paper on which the committee gives its opinion raises a problem with foreign subsidies. The Commission notes that there are more and more cases where foreign subsidies appear to have facilitated the acquisition of EU companies which should have affected other types of investment decisions or, according to the Commission, distorted the behaviour of recipients on the market. We have said in our position that there needs to be a legislative response, which is not yet specified, to the scale of these problems and to what additional measures, other than those already contained in the White Paper, which the Commission believes would be justified. It is important to have an impact assessment with a clear description of the problems and an accounting of the budgetary impact before any concrete legislative proposal is presented. A future legislative proposal must be effective and as beneficial as possible from a free trade perspective. It shall include provisions to ensure a good business and investment climate and protect national authorities from an unreasonable burden. Legislation must not delay or complicate public procurement. Legislation should be simple for companies to comply with, and should not lead to increased administration or burden. At the same time, this legislation will protect the internal market from distortions of competition due to unfair practices. This is an important balance, Madam President. All these instruments for examining foreign subsidies must not become the enemies of free trade itself; it must be emphasised. Therefore, the common toolbox needs to make sure that not every tool in itself is an obstacle, but every tool must be the focus if it is not to be a counter-force to trade. That is why alert action is needed so that all companies can easily and fairly sell and buy in the internal market. There must be no problems with market access. The Moderates not only defend free trade but push for free trade to be the way out of the crisis and forward. That is why we have made it clear that legislation must tackle the problem without creating regulatory problems, barriers to trade, lengthy and costly processes or distortions of competition. A lot of trade between countries is fair, and that is something we want to continue. Therefore, action must be taken against countries and companies where it is not working properly. But we need to deal with proposals carefully, so that they are not surrounded by protectionism and are used selectively and so that they cannot be abused. This applies not least in the tracks of covid-19. Many companies have seen their assets disappear. Ultimately, the goal is that the global solution is harmonisation, which removes world trade from these distorting elements. The Swedish strategy must be a driving force for us to get there. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-326	Madam President, I would like I won't need the two minutes I have. I was just so excited by my previous speech that I forgot to support our reservation of motives. However, as I emphasised in my initial speech, we broadly support the committee's position.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-327	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the RUT deduction, the deduction for cleaning, maintenance and laundry. These were the services covered when the Reinfeldt Government introduced the 2007 reform. Other services have been added and more will come over the years. It is always fun for a center party to debate RUT, because we were early to exercise on this issue here in Parliament. And the concept of RUT was presented in a motion by center parties Birgitta Carlsson and Annika Qarlsson in 2003. Regardless of what you think of the reform, it has played a major role in the economy, in reducing undeclared work and gender equality, and it has survived governments with different political orientations. That says a lot about the value of the reform. Since the RUT deduction was introduced, there have been a number of evaluations by authorities, independent researchers and stakeholder organisations. Given how the deduction has developed over the years, it is in the nature of the matter that the results point to different effects of the deduction. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office draws two overall conclusions from the review. The first conclusion is that RUT buyers' increased market work, i.e. their ability to increase wage labour and thus increase tax revenues, has increased, as has the fact that people outside the ordinary labour market have more easily found work in RUT companies. The second conclusion concerns whether the RUT deduction is self-financed. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that there is weak empirical support for this. Other evaluations and other assessors argue the opposite. For example, the Swedish Trade Investigation Institute believes that the reform is self-financed to 90 percent. The Swedish Tax Agency's own survey of households' conscious black purchases of domestic services, compared with 2005 and 2019, shows a decrease of as much as SEK 8 billion. There are, of course, many possible reasons for this, such as perhaps reducing the use of cash, general tax cuts, the work of the Tax Agency and other authorities against the black economy. However, the fact that the RUT reform has had a major impact on the 8 billion in reduced undeclared work is probably not an exaggeration, and that in turn it has led to increased tax revenues to our common well-being is probably not an exaggeration either. Madam President, I would like Thus, the Center Party notes that the first objective of our RUT reform can be said to be fulfilled, namely the reduction in the incidence of undeclared work. The second and perhaps most important aim of the Center Party is for the reform to contribute to greater gender equality, including through changes in domestic work. Women still spend twice as much work at home compared to men. Given that the Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that in families with children women's wage labour has increased by almost 3 per cent and the Swedish Trade Investigation Institute, again, in its surveys indicate that the corresponding percentage figures are up to 16 per cent, it can be noted that women have increased their financial security. The share of wage labour for men in families buying RUT services has also increased but not to the same extent. The third important objective of the RUT reform was for the Center Party to increase entrepreneurship and employment, especially in groups that are far from the labour market and have not previously been entrepreneurs. And yes, the proportion of enterprises in the sector has increased, and the proportion of enterprises run by women has increased. I'm not satisfied until the day it's as common for children to say that my mother is CEO, as when they say that my father is CEO. And here the RUT reform has contributed. Back to the government of Reinfeldt, which argued that the RUT reform could be self-financed in the long term. That it would pay itself was one of several important arguments but never a main argument. Contributing to the emergence of new sectors has been an important objective on an ongoing basis, as well as giving pensioners more freedom of choice when they can supplement their home care. The Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that the employment rate, both for domestic and foreign born, is increasing and that the difference persists over time. Madam President, I would like A challenge in evaluating the RUT reform lies in the fact that the deduction has often been at the heart of the hot political debate. There have often been proposals to reduce the deduction or even abolish it. This signal value alone has meant that the number of service providers has fallen considerably periodically. Already 2016, the year after certain deteriorations in the deduction were announced, there were signals that customers wanted to have the work done blackly. Since its introduction, the deduction has changed on several occasions. In 2009, the deduction was made by introducing the so-called invoice model, where the tax audit was carried out directly in the invoice to the customer – a major simplification. In 2017, some services were removed while the ceiling was halved. By 2021, an extension has been announced in terms of both the number of posts within the deduction and the ceiling. The RUT deduction, Madam President. The Center Party believes that further studies are needed in order to develop RUT and take advantage of the benefits that have been shown to arise. Despite the studies carried out on the deduction, knowledge is not very high when it comes to, for example, the cost of the reform, taking into account changes in tax revenues as well as possibly lower levels of benefits from other insurance policies, such as supply support. Similar general equilibrium analyses have been requested by, among others, the Swedish Agency for Growth Policy Studies. The Swedish National Audit Office's report is a valuable contribution to this type of analysis, but more and recurring studies are needed. Therefore, the Center Party believes that the government needs to continuously evaluate the RUT reform. I therefore support the Centre Party's reservation.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-344	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the consequences of the RUT deduction in a report. Tax expenditure for RUT was 5.6 billion in 2019 and has steadily increased year-on-year. It is not only the amount that has increased, also the hours have increased but also the prices. Between 2015 and 2017, prices increased by 13.7 per cent, which cannot be explained by normal price development. The largest RUT service is cleaning. Households with children account for 44 per cent of the total deduction amount. The earned income of RUT-buying cohabiting women with children has increased slightly more than that of men in the same situation compared to the respective comparison group. Persons over 66 years of age account for 27% of the deduction amount. The Swedish National Audit Office draws two overall conclusions from the review. The first is that Parliament's intentions with the RUT deduction have been met to some extent in terms of RUT buyers' increased labour income and opportunities for certain groups to gain a firmer anchor in the labour market. The second conclusion is that there is little real support for the fact that the RUT deduction is self-financed. The Swedish National Audit recommends that the Government review the calculations of the RUT deduction's long-term self-financing rate and long-term effects on employment. Of those working in the RUT industry, 22 – 30 per cent were not registered in Sweden the year before they started working there, and most were born in an EU country. The Government recommends in the report to consider the presence of labour migration in the design of measures aimed at increasing employment in Sweden. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, this applies not least to measures aimed at increasing employment among those with a weak link to the labour market. The Swedish National Audit Office's review shows the difficulties in trying to calculate in advance and on theoretical grounds how reforms will affect employment and tax revenues through the changing behaviour of companies and individuals, so-called dynamic effects. Results from evaluations of the impact of individual reforms on companies and the changing behaviour of individuals may be uncertain. Observed differences in labour income and labour market outcomes between different groups may be due to factors other than the RUT deduction. These factors may be difficult to capture in the available data. This in turn could lead to the effects of the RUT deduction being both over- and under-estimated. Madam President, I would like It cannot be excluded that labour migration has reduced the opportunities for short-term graduates in the Swedish labour market to get a job in the RUT sector, which could also have a negative impact on the rate of self-financing of the RUT deduction. It is good that the Swedish National Audit Office has highlighted the unforeseen effects of a more global labour market on the results of measures aimed at increasing employment and reducing unemployment. The government generally does not take into account dynamic effects in the projections of the impact of individual reforms on public finances. The Swedish National Audit Office's review of the RUT deduction strengthens the assessment that this should not be done in the future either. With regard to the potential impact of labour migration on the impact of proposals aimed at increasing employment on the Swedish labour market, the Government intends to consider such effects in future impact assessments where justified and possible. The Government intends to continuously monitor the further development of knowledge about the combined effects of the RUT deduction. Further evaluations and research on the effects of the RUT deduction are positive.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-356	Madam President, I would like During a period of my life, I overdid the CSN loans with extra jobs in home care. It was strictly regulated which parts we had to help the care recipients with. For example, drying dust on top of the kitchen cabinets, cleaning the oven or hanging curtains were not included, for example with reference to the Work Environment Act. I was often asked: Can't you come to me this weekend and clean up properly? When I refused, I was asked the next question: But you have some fellow countryman who is good at cleaning, right? That's exactly how it was back then. Pensioners and others with regular income could not afford to buy cleaning services white. The black market flourished. The RUT deduction, which is an acronym of cleaning, maintenance and washing, came into being to convert black services into white, so that families with young children could afford to put together the puzzle of life and that women and men could increase their time in the labour market. But it was also because the women, especially women, who cleaned the black would receive a legal income and the right to leave, sickness benefit and pension. It would give them security, workmates, and self - esteem. These are values that no one can measure, not even the National Audit Office: the value of freedom, the value of having a job and the value of being able to support yourself. The Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that the intention that women should increase their time in the labour market and thus their income has been met. Furthermore, the report shows that the RUT deduction has led to people, especially women born abroad, moving from unemployment to work. The Swedish National Audit Office does not present any detailed calculations linked to the conclusion that the RUT deduction is not self-financed. In its assessment in the letter, the Government leaves this conclusion without object and without adding a broader perspective with the starting point in other available analyses of the effects of the RUT reform. It's not surprising. The Social Democrats have always opposed the RUT deduction. The commemorative recalls the pig debate in the 1990s. Madam President, I would like However, there is research to demonstrate that the RUT deduction is not a financial loss transaction for the State. According to the Swedish Trade Investigation Institute, which has analysed the impact of the RUT deduction on public finances, almost 90 per cent of the tax reduction comes back to the state and the municipality through increased tax revenues from RUT workers and RUT providers. It is important for the government to consider. Another point raised by the Swedish National Audit Office is that some of the jobs created through the RUT deduction have gone to labour immigrants. This also highlights the government as a negative effect for short-term graduates in Sweden in their assessment of the Swedish National Audit Office's observations. This picture is not confirmed, for example, by the employers' organisation Almega. According to Almega, it is to a large extent a question of workers from EU countries taking up employment in Sweden via free movement. We might ask ourselves why employers cannot find labour in Sweden. In recent years, hundreds of thousands of people with low or no education have been granted a residence permit in Sweden. Unemployment is huge in this group, and RUT industries should be a route to self-sufficiency. The reason for this is spelled contribution. It pays too bad to take the step from grants to work. According to the Swedish Parliament's investigation service, a family of four children can receive 33,000 SEK a month tax-free. If one of the parents starts working in a low-wage job, the overall income decreases slightly, and if both start working full-time, income increases marginally. If the government really wants people living in Sweden to get jobs in the RUT industries, it should introduce grant ceilings, which we Moderates have long demanded. Madam President, I would like With these comments, I support the committee's position.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-370	Madam President, I would like The government would rather pay RUT grants to the rich than save people from the burning Moria refugee camp. It says a lot about the government's priorities. For me, the whole construction of society is about looking after each other, acting in solidarity, helping it at the bottom of the steps, and it is precisely political priorities that this debate is about. We will pay taxes to get more staff for welfare and care, to strengthen our security and social security systems and to have a dignified reception of people in need. Our money should not go to rich people who want to clean the pool or get their home cleaned. However, when it comes to the reform we are debating today, it is no longer the facts that govern the debate, but it is profit interests and, as we heard earlier, one or another report by Mr Almega and more. I shall therefore take this opportunity to respond to some of the points raised today. Firstly, the reform would now be self-financing. The hand on the heart, it's not. It cost 5.4 billion last year. It is a public financial cost, and it is the tenth in Sweden that benefits most from this reform. Secondly, they have been raised arguments about the puzzle of life and that it would relieve parents of young children and so on. This is how the citizens sold the reform, as we have heard earlier in the debate. The fact is that more than half of the allowance goes to households without children; 69 per cent of the rich people who buy RUT services do not even have children at home. That's where that argument fell. Thirdly, Madam President, it would increase entrepreneurship and employment, but it is only to be noted that the reform is a very expensive labour market measure. Every RUT job costs taxpayers between 1.5 million and 2.3 million. So there are three to four jobs in welfare. In fact, I believe that it is jobs in welfare and our common sense that are needed, not contributions to the rich people who want to move a piano between the floors at home. Fourthly, Madam President, it would create jobs for those who are far from the labour market, which neoliberals have sold in as an integration project and so on. I really think that is a strange argument. Non-subsidised sectors such as home care, hospitals, schools and health centres have been better able to bring this target group into the labour market than RUT has done. In addition, one third of RUT jobs have gone to people who have immigrated to Sweden. It wasn't even supposed to be like that in the first place. There is no accuracy at all in the reform. Fifthly, Madam President, the RUT reform would strangle the black jobs. Well, you'd wish there was some substance in that argument. A number of arguments have arisen about this. But the fact that black jobs would be turned into whites was far too optimistic, according to the Swedish National Audit Office's report, which we are debating today. The government also uses a different survey than the Swedish Tax Agency did, which tripled the figures. In fact, the government also used Danish data. Overall, this is in itself a remarkable labour market measure. Should we subsidise all sectors where there is undeclared work? I find that rather strange. Is that the solution for the labour market? Is the poor pensioner, the single mother and everyone else who has a low income paying for this in different ways because the bourgeoisie believes that it gets rid of black jobs? There is not a single argument here that holds. The ambition of the RUT reform, as we have heard in the debate, was that it would be self-financing. We can see that it was not. The reform would relieve parents of young children, but more than half of those using RUT do not even have children at home. It would increase employment, but RUT has, on the contrary, only cost a lot of money and is a very expensive labour market measure, while welfare is screaming for more staff – we know what it looks like around the country's municipalities. The reform would create jobs for those who are far from the labour market, but there the unsubsidised sectors of welfare have succeeded better. It would strangle the black jobs, but this argument has also fallen. All arguments for the RUT reform have therefore fallen. The only thing left, Madam President, is a system that increases inequality, which wastes taxpayers' money and allows billions to roll in to the rich, who can actually pay for their own cleaning, washing or moving the piano between the floors of Östermalm. This happens while we have a welfare that goes on hunger food, while we have a crisis in welfare and in the municipalities, with no long-term perspective of any kind, and while the health and welfare staff have taken the biggest blow during the crisis. Yet the government wants to pay out even more in RUT grants, which increases inequality and class gaps. All you have to do is regret it.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-383	Madam President, I would like It is wonderful to have some ideological debate in this House. I have to tell Tony Haddou right on one point: he said that it is no longer the facts that govern the debate. That's it. These are feelings that Tony Haddou throws everywhere in this House, emotions that, moreover, do not support in any research or experience. With regard to the rhetoric used by Tony Haddou, that it is a waste of taxpayers' money, and so on, and that low and middle wage earners pay the cleaning aid and the piano, that is simply not true. It is a reduced tax or a deduction, a loss of revenue, not something else. It's not stealing from anyone. The Left Party's starting point is completely wrong and is about an imaginary distribution policy effect. The aim of the reform was never a distributional effect, but was to make black jobs white. Any immigrant who has got a job can tell Tony Haddou how self-esteem changes, and everyone Tony Haddou calls rich people are people who pay taxes and finance welfare. I would therefore like to ask Tony Haddou: Where do you think the money for the public sector comes from?
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-387	Madam President, I would like I will begin by replying at once: the money for the public sector comes from everyone who works. It is tax revenue for the municipalities and for the state. There's a difference here. If you look at the statistics, i.e. facts, not the reports of Almega or the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise – they may send a few to the Moderates – you can see exactly which target groups are using RUT. This drains welfare and takes our money, which could go to it. We think it would be better if they went to the home service than for Danderydsvillan to have a bartender at a party. It's a little distasteful, I think. I understand that there is an allergy to the facts in this debate, but the Swedish National Audit Office's report can be summarised very briefly: The level of security is not very good. Does Boriana think it's a feeling? There is no empirical support for early adoption," says Riksrevisionen's report. Is that a feeling, too? It's a lack of accuracy for RUT buyers and RUT workers. Is that also a feeling? Why should the National Audit even review reforms if Boriana just says: No, I'm not looking at it, but I've got a report from Almega. It's a little strange of the Moderates. My question to the Moderates is: Are you satisfied with this? After all, there is hardly any accuracy at all in the reform. It's terrible, it's really bad and it's been sawed along with its ankles.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-391	Madam President, I would like The reform is not sawn together with the ankles, not even by the National Audit Office. The Swedish National Audit Office says that people have increased their work on the market and withdrawn the income that Tony Haddou so generously spends on, for example, immigrants who come here from refugee camps and who should be able to get a job in the RUT industries, because there is no need for the same language skills or educational level. Tony Haddou wants to hold people hostage and just cut out contributions instead of giving them the self-esteem and self-confidence that comes through their own job. The RUT deduction has created jobs and contributed to women becoming entrepreneurs and CEOs of their own companies. It has certainly increased equality, the same equality that the Left Party claims to protect in other respects. When it comes to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and all the organisations that Tony Haddou mentioned with contempt, it is precisely the members of these organisations and companies that create all the income that is then allocated to the state and municipalities, to the welfare and to our pensions. Show some respect for those who make all this work!
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-394	Madam President, I would like Nowhere in my speech did I say that we are against the services themselves, but we are talking about the design and how they are handled in the tax system. I am not surprised to hear these words from the Moderates, a party that is working hard and effectively to divide wage earners – young people against old Swedes against immigrants, women against men, permanent employees against hired staff. That's how you work in the Moderates. You are still pushing the idea that major tax cuts for the rich would be a good thing. We have seen what it looks like in the country's municipalities and how the welfare is drained. Moreover, the large tax cuts do not have a major impact on employment. We can take greater responsibility here and give welfare what it has earned. That has also been proved by a crisis. You're dismantling the welfare and our commons. It's nothing new with the Moderates. You don't have a problem with savings in health insurance either. You have no problem with tightening up the right to subsistence support and newcomers' rights to security systems. The Moderates spoke about ceilings. There could be a huge reduction in RUT. Shouldn't you start with premium ceilings at all in terms of interest rebates, RUTs, ROTs and so on? Instead, you want to go after a completely different target group. You want to go after the poor, the ones at the bottom of the steps, and you say that this creates jobs for them. But it's the other way around, Boriana Åberg. You divide employees in the labour market. You don't care at all about those who work in these services. Then you would have ensured that they had had decent and decent working conditions. You don't, on the contrary.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-398	Madam President, I would like As I said, this issue has often been in the hot debate centre of politics. It's good, and it's refreshing in here. But it can be a bit harmful if it spreads to the industry and industry. But in here, it's uplifting. The Left Party often talks about – a little contemptuous, I think – that this is a reform that benefits high income earners. But it is after all 70 – 80 per cent of buyers who are low and middle earners. Regardless of this, what the Left Party thinks about the morale of high-income earners is not really relevant. There is nothing we can do about it in this House with political decisions. You have to do something about that in another way. I would now like to try some arguments with the Left Party. Nevertheless, I think it is better that the high-income people, as defined by the Left Party, actually buy these services white than black and thus contribute to an increase in the public sector's economy. But if the Left Party does not like this deduction and this reform, what is your recipe for combating undeclared work in domestic services?
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-401	Madam President, I would like Those were good questions, Helena Vilhelmsson. What is highlighted here is that it would be harmful if this debate were to come out. It's very strange. We still have nothing against these services, but we think that those who use these services are people who can pay the full price for them. That's all there is to it. I therefore hope that we will get this issue over with. If you want to do something about the jobs that are being bought on the black labour market, what would it be like perhaps to start reviewing a system where there are other control mechanisms in this sector? Instead, you say that now that these jobs are black, you are giving money to those who use these services. I find that very strange, as I said in my speech. Is it the solution for the labour market that the poor pensioner, the single mother and others on low incomes should pay for cleaning for high income earners in particular? All statistics show the winners of this reform. You don't have to screw that up. The Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish National Audit Office and every report show who is using and maximizing the RUT grant. Above all, I think it is a strange labour market measure to subsidise sectors where there is undeclared work. You don't do that in any other business. I think this is a very strange argument.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-405	Madam President, I would like I asked the question what the Left Party's recipe for reducing undeclared work is. I got the answer that there are other control mechanisms but not which ones. Perhaps we can come back to this issue later. I also object to the Left Party's consistent statement on factual resistance that this has not reduced undeclared work when we have the Swedish Tax Agency's report, which as late as 2019 showed that undeclared work in domestic services in 2005 – 2019 has decreased by SEK 8 billion. I don't think it's fact-resistant. Nor do I find it particularly illogical to believe that RUT work has been part of this money. My next question concerns equality. I also find it somewhat factually resistant to not acknowledging that the RUT reform has contributed to greater equality when it is women who own almost half of the companies that have been set up. It is a much higher proportion than the average in business overall, where about one in three entrepreneurs is a woman. Women make up 59% of RUT employees, which is a significant over-representation compared to the rest of the industry. If you look at this with weaker groups, which the Left Party also claims is pure fact resistance, you can see that, compared to the business community as a whole, the proportion of employees is higher both among people without upper secondary education and among foreign-born. Half of RUT employees lack upper secondary education, and the proportion of foreign-born is more than twice as high as that of the remaining sectors. Does the Left Party really mean that the RUT reform has had no effect whatsoever on equality in society?
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-409	The RUT deduction, Madam President. Thank you for the question. If we look at other sectors that are dominated by women, we can see that they are the ones who have had to stand back for spending money on RUT subsidies for the very richest. If we look at home care, we can see that it is an overrepresentation of women who work there. This also applies to general welfare in the country's municipalities. And it's the same in health care. On the other hand, if you pour subsidies across a sector that is dominated by women, it creates work. We could just as well have pieced together with this tax system and Eastern subsidies over some other sector that is dominated by women. Then it would have created jobs, wouldn't it? The difference here is that we do not think it is reasonable to spend more money on the very richest people who can pay for this themselves. As regards references to undeclared work, the Swedish Tax Agency's report also contains other factors that have played a major role in reducing undeclared work. Many bourgeois parties are also opposed to these factors, such as control systems and so on. I understand that, because we want to liberalise most of it. But it hasn't worked very well. I would also like to appeal to the Center Party. As we have heard in this debate, the bourgeois parties are giving themselves to those with low incomes, which are at the bottom of the social ladder, when they take the opportunity to discuss the ceilings for grants. I think we should look at more funding ceilings for the richest. That's enough. I just think we should redistribute.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-414	Madam President, I would like The RUT deduction was an important reform introduced by the Alliance Government. The deduction has opened up completely new markets and created the conditions for new companies and new jobs. It has also helped to make so-called black jobs white, and it has simplified the everyday lives of many people. The Christian Democrats have over the years contributed to developing the RUT deduction, and we think it should continue to develop. The budget that we and the Moderates got through 2018 meant that the ceiling in a first step was restored to SEK 50 000 and that in a second step it would be further raised to SEK 75 000 and broadened so that more services could be included. This is now also being implemented by the government, and that is, of course, something that we welcome. At the same time, we want to see further extensions of the RUT deduction so that more services can be covered. Today, the care of a garden allows the RUT deduction, but planting of trees and shrubs does not provide a deduction. We also want grave care to be included. For many relatives, a grave is an important place that can be considered as an extension of the home, and care for it should therefore be included in the RUT deduction. The Swedish National Audit Office has now evaluated the RUT deduction, and this is also the reason for today's debate and decision. One of the Swedish National Audit Office's conclusions is that the RUT deduction is not self-financing, i.e. that the deduction costs the state more than the tax revenue from the jobs created directly or indirectly. This is left without objection by the government. It is strange, because the Swedish National Audit Office's evaluation is far from the only analysis of the RUT deduction. Here the government should have brought in a broader perspective and looked at all available research. The Swedish National Audit Office also notes that some of the jobs created thanks to the RUT deduction have gone to labour immigrants from other parts of Europe. The recruitment of employees from other countries by employers can, of course, have many reasons. One of the reasons is the shortage of labour in Sweden and to some extent inadequate matching by the Swedish Public Employment Service. Of course, it is very remarkable that it is not possible to employ more workers already in these sectors. This may partly be due to the marginal impact of supply aid, which reduces the incentives to seek lower paid jobs. Here, too, the government should have deepened its analysis and asked why the situation is as it is. Today's decision adds this report to the file. The fact that it is added to the documents must not mean that the debate ends, that the RUT deduction does not continue to develop and that the problems of finding labour among those who are currently unemployed here in Sweden are left without action. However, based on how the government has dealt with this matter, it seems that this necessary work will have to wait for a new government.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-422	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an exciting debate here today about RUT and ROT! I thought I'd start with a little story. Maybe I've talked about this before. Perhaps four years ago I lived in Tensta outside Stockholm, one of these more vulnerable areas. I talked to a man who worked to help people start small businesses and businesses, people in this vulnerable area who often do not have a strong educational background, who often do not have a lot of money at the bank in start-up capital and who have little resources to start up and run businesses. He helped them get started with their own business to get their own money, their own power over their own life and so on. He told me that the most common company started in these areas, from his perspective, was just a small cleaning company. He felt that the most common person who started a company was a woman with an immigrant background, with low or sometimes even non-existent educational background and with little financial resources. She came to his business and got a little support to buy the most basic things you need to be able to clean up someone else and then get started with her own business. I think it's amazing that people with this kind of reform who make it cheaper to buy and sell RUT services, people who would otherwise have had a very long way into the labour market, actually get power over their own lives. People like the women he described get their own money and may even be able to build up what – now the President will excuse me – is usually called a fuck-off capital, a draw-on-hell capital, a capital that means that if you end up in a tough situation, maybe have a destructive relationship or don't enjoy where you are in your life can leave that position because you have money, a capital, something that you haven't had before. I apologize for swearing in this speaker's chair, but it's called that. That's the terminology. I can't do anything about it, I'm afraid. The debate is much about whether this reform is socially profitable or not. I understand that. I agree with the Christian Democrats with others who have pointed out that the very report we are discussing today may not highlight all the perspectives and research in this area. But the most important thing about the reform is not really whether it is going to be plus or minus with the crowns and the krona of the treasury. The most important thing about the reform is precisely about the power of individuals over their own lives. It is about unpaid domestic work, which has usually been done by women, being paid. It is a question of women who have been highly educated and have had good jobs being given more opportunity to make a career instead of being tied to homework. It is perhaps also a little bit about, as someone mentioned, the need that older people can have for RUT services. I think of my grandmother, who has such large porcelain flowers-- they're very nice, I think-- climbing in her window. But they are very heavy pots and heavy soil, and she has difficulty caring for them herself. Then she can buy that service from someone else so that these flowers, which she has inherited and which I hope I may inherit sometime in the future, will be all right. At the same time, someone gets a job. She is able to care for herself in her own home with the help of someone else she has chosen. In this way, both a person's job—it creates a job—and he retains a greater part of his dignity, the one that comes from taking care of himself. The question then is: Is it worth it? It is clear that it means a loss of revenue for the state that we do not take this money from people in taxes that we would otherwise have taken. Yes, I think it's worth it when a woman who is far from the labour market gets a job, can have her own little company and maybe even make it grow and become CEO of something bigger eventually. I think it's worth it when more children see their parents go to work, even in vulnerable areas. I think it's worth it when more black jobs go white. I think it is a greater value than the crowns that the government does not get into tax revenue. There has been a discussion here, Madam President, where the left wing has called this a contribution. I really have to turn against it. Perhaps you could call it a contribution because it contributes to all the positive things that I have listed, but it must be understood when you engage in fiscal policy that a tax reduction is never a contribution. We have in Sweden one of the highest tax pressures in the world. We are one of the countries in the world where when you go to work, work and do the right thing, you actually work for someone else because the state takes the money, the value you have created yourself. I looked into this on a tax spin like this-- you can google it on the internet if you're interested. If you earn 15 000 SEK – it's not a huge income – you have to pay about 50 per cent in tax. It is incredibly high taxes we pay in Sweden, and when you lower the tax it does not, of course, mean that someone receives a subsidy. Then it means that the state stops taking so much money from people's own toil. I would like to say one last thing – I see that I have gone beyond speaking time. The question was also asked if it would not be better to spend this money on welfare so that welfare can employ people. Where does the left wing think money for welfare comes from? They come from people who stop being dependent on benefits and go to work. They come from people, even in vulnerable areas, such as starting and running businesses. They come from people who would otherwise have been tied to homework having to make a faster and better career. In this way, we will have increased specialisation in the economy and greater prosperity and will be able to spend more money on welfare. That is how we build prosperity: we build prosperity from the beginning. Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for this discussion and say that I think it is clear that it is still the economic right wing that has the leadership shirt in Sweden's economic and welfare policy.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-436	Madam President, I would like Now something very unusual – something that you don't get to see and hear often – will happen: that a moderate goes up the speaker's seat, represents the Moderates and is against a tax cut. We, the Moderates, are the Swedish tax benchers' party. We think it is important to reduce taxes and make it more profitable to work and to run companies so that we can lift Sweden's prosperity so that more people who are in socio-economically vulnerable areas can get a job and get out of their situation. This is good. Tax cuts are good. They give more freedom for people to decide over their own resources that they have earned. But when tax cuts are implemented, they must be done fairly. It has to be the same for everyone. It cannot be that some people get tax cuts because they happen to live in a certain place and others do not. Madam President, I would like Sweden has developed in a very destructive way in recent years. We are seeing a sharp increase in crime, and we are seeing violence with brutality and ruthlessness that we have not seen in generations. We have an economic climate in Sweden with the lowest growth in the EU as a whole. Our unemployment is among the highest in the EU. We have a situation where public debt is increasing in an historic way. To face these problems, we have a government that is almost completely tone-deaf and does virtually nothing to tackle these real problems. Instead, money is being spent in a way that has rarely been done before, and the measures do not meet the major societal problems that we face. This tax reduction is a very good example. There are three main reasons why I think Parliament should reject the proposal for this tax reduction. The first reason is that it is unfair. It is not a tax reduction that will go to the craftsman in Norrköping or Borås. It is not a tax reduction that will go to the nurse in Luleå or Umeå. It is not even a tax reduction that will go to the assistant nurse in Tjärna meadows, Rinkeby, Angered or Rosengård and who wants to get out of their situation and get away from the socially vulnerable areas so that children do not have to grow up in an environment of gang crime. No, this is a tax cut that goes to a few. It goes to a few hundred thousand in Sweden who live in some municipalities. This isn't fair. If you lower the tax it must be logical and it must be fair so that it benefits everyone and not according to an arbitrary principle where some may just because they happen to live in a certain municipality and others do not. The second reason is that there is a bizarre arbitrariness in how the government has chosen who will get these tax cuts. Skellefteå with 72 000 inhabitants is considered a rural municipality to receive this tax reduction, but Hofors with its 9 000 inhabitants does not get it. Surahammar, which I think most people think is rural with its 10,000 inhabitants, does not get this tax cut. Grum municipality does not receive the 5 600 people who live in Laxå. On the other hand, Östersund, with its 60,000 inhabitants and a university, is regarded as rural and will receive this tax reduction. There's no logic in this. The third reason is that this is a proposal that signals a general development in politics where the government, with its left parties as support in various ways, gives hundreds to people in rural areas but takes away thousands of pieces in the form of increased petrol tax, increased vehicle tax and a flight tax that causes air routes to be shut down and it will be difficult to get from many dehooks to other parts of Sweden, for example if you have to get to Karolinska Hospital, which is one of the world's best hospitals, to perform an emergency operation. So and in many other ways you make life miserable and mess with people, ordinary people, who live around Sweden. This is not a logical policy. It is not a policy that focuses on the real problems that we have in Sweden. This proposal represents an unfair policy. It lacks rigour, is characterised by arbitraryness and is part of an unfair policy that makes it difficult for people to live in rural areas. Instead, we in the Moderates want to lower taxes for everyone. We want everyone who works to get income gains so that it pays to work, go to work and run a business. We intend to remove this kind of symbolic policy that this government has been pursuing, such as the proposals that I mentioned by having one of the world's highest taxes on petrol, plastic bag tax, air tax and things that make life difficult for people living in rural areas. Instead, we should have a policy that makes it profitable to work for everyone and is fair and characterised by a sound principle from that perspective. With those words, I would like to endorse our reservation.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-450	Madam President, I would like The government has here presented a proposal to Parliament to decide on, namely the introduction of a regional tax reduction. It is a proposal that could be perceived as a geographical split by Sweden. The opinion of the Swedish Democrats is that the Government's proposal for a regional tax reduction is problematic. This does not contribute to increasing cohesion in Sweden, but, on the contrary, to the policy of fragmentation that governments of different colours have for a long time already reinforced through growing alienation areas and penal taxes on transport and rural areas. The purpose of the regional tax reduction is for a tax relief to be granted to residents in the designated regions that are deemed to be economically weaker in especially northern and central Sweden. It is justified by long distances and poor service, which are factors that we also believe need to be compensated for. However, we are very doubtful that the proposed tax reduction is the right way to respond and compensate for this. Of course, it may seem good to reduce the tax on those living in sparsely populated areas, but in the way the government wants to do it and limit it to living in a well-identified geographical region, areas are identified as unattractive, which can hardly be expected to be flattering for the municipalities concerned. In addition, there is a problem of demarcation, as some of the municipalities that are actually part of the area but have a slightly larger urban area are not allowed to take part in the tax reduction despite the fact that parts of these municipalities have the same sparsely populated structure. It is also forgotten that in southern Sweden there are also parts that have a similar sparsely populated structure, but these must also not take part in the tax reduction. Madam President, I would like In order to benefit from the proposed deduction, one must be registered before 1 November in one of the municipalities identified in the proposal. The amount of the deduction is SEK 1,675, or just over SEK 140 a month. To say that this amount would be decisive, as the government thinks, in order to get residents to stay or even move there is enough to exaggerate. It is a tax reduction that is enough for barely two gas tanks or one lunch a month for a year. We do not believe that this will have a decisive impact on where people choose to settle. Madam President, I would like In addition, several heavy consultation bodies have rejected the proposal. These include LO, TCO, Akademikerförbundet and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. The reasons why these consultation bodies reject the proposal are somewhat different. Some believe that this is a wrong priority. It expresses doubts that it will have any real effect and believes that, if so, the effect is supposed to be weak. It also points out that the proposal deviates from the objective of general income taxation and makes the tax system more complex and difficult to understand. A number of other heavy consultation bodies do not, in themselves, reject the proposal but nevertheless express doubts as to whether it will have the effect that the government intends to have. These include SKR, Swedish Municipalities and Regions, Konjunkturinstitutet and Umeå University. Madam President, I would like Sweden needs to avoid a policy that leads to general fragmentation of the country, in particular the division of geographical areas as proposed in the Government proposal. We see the proposal as symbolic policy because the amount received is relatively small and neither accurate nor fair. Is this proposal really the best government can come up with to provide support for households in sparsely populated areas? However, the fact that people living there need to be compensated in one way or another for the additional cost involved is a good starting point. However, if one intends to benefit individuals living in rural and sparsely populated areas, it is necessary to provide them with better conditions for dealing with the longer distances and higher costs involved. We believe that balanced income tax reductions would have been better for those with lower incomes. Reduced taxes on fuels would have been better and improved, instead of deteriorating, deductions for journeys to and from work. It would have been better to abolish bonuses – malus. The subsidised electric car is not a realistic option for most people in northern Sweden, given the distance and the cold climate. It would have been better to invest in roads, existing railways and air traffic in these areas. A well-functioning infrastructure and being able to afford to drive your car to work are crucial factors for us to have a functioning rural and sparsely populated area. We need to give everyone who lives in Sweden's more sparsely populated areas good conditions to stay. They need something better than the government proposal on the table. Madam President, I would like I therefore support the joint reservation contained in the report.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-461	Madam President, I would like In Sweden everyone should be able to live and realize their dreams, no matter where in the country they live. To make this possible, the Government's budget for next year has many good initiatives, including a strong green start-up package that provides 75 000 new jobs, a faster climate change and a stronger welfare through investments in health care, care for the elderly and school. It is investments that enable us to work our way out of the crisis and build Sweden strong. Increased pensions and unemployment insurance are things that are needed throughout the country and that benefit us all. But special efforts are also needed for rural areas. Large areas of Sweden, due to long distances and low population density, have different conditions for development than the rest of the country. These are situational issues that affect both people and businesses. Inhabitants of rural municipalities are more likely to pay higher taxes and have less access to services. It creates gaps that we shouldn't have. To get a safer and more equal country that holds together, we need to bridge the gaps between city and country, between the third of Sweden that is southern Sweden and the two thirds that are Norrland, between the so-called forest counties and other counties. The reason is simple; we need each other. Through cohesion and community, we enable the best possible development for the whole of Sweden. Madam President, I would like The Parliament has decided on an overall objective of coherent rural policy. The goal is a living countryside with equal opportunities for entrepreneurship, work, housing and welfare. The next step, which we are debating here today, is the government's proposal to introduce a tax reduction of SEK 1,675 per year for residents in certain sparsely populated areas. It is a compensation that should not be ignored, as some parties do in their reservations. It becomes almost comical when the Moderates try to change the meaning of justice. In total, approximately 810 000 people are expected to receive the tax reduction, with the highest percentage of the income being paid to low-income people. No one has thought that a regional tax reduction should be enough to overcome every situational problem. Instead, it is intended as part of a whole for a fairer levelling that we would like to achieve. The government does some things to strengthen rural areas, for example
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-471	中 investments in a sustainable tourism industry throughout the country and in a developed business environment in sparsely populated and rural municipalities
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-473	Only a few initiatives show that there is a holistic approach. Madam President, I would like I'm in favour of the bill. I would also like to quote what our former Minister for Rural Affairs, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, said on one occasion: The debate in Sweden has too often focused on conflict. Suburban areas are facing inner city, north to south and, not least, city to land. We need to get away from that polarization and away from the image that one must be right and the other wrong. It is high time to strengthen the community between town and country. To conclude, I would like to stress once again the importance of this very point. Every opportunity to strengthen the community between us must be taken by politicians.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-476	Madam President, I would like Sultan Kayhan initially said something like that everyone in Sweden should be able to realize their lives no matter where you live. It's a pretty nice expression of value that I think most people can sign. I can also have respect and understanding for and agree with the input value that you should help those who are at the bottom of society and give them better conditions. Sultan, however, is welcome to explain to me the logic and fairness that the academic, the professor who works at Mittuniversitetet, has good income and lives in Östersund, which is perhaps not a big city but a relatively medium-sized Swedish city, he will receive 100 SEK a month in tax reduction. But the assistant nurse in Rinkeby who struggles to get out of there, so that her children won't have to live with gang crime, she won't get that tax cut. These are fine words about helping those at the bottom of society. In practice, however, it is a rather brutal injustice, geographical but also principled, in that those who are really at the bottom of the social pyramid do not get this tax cut. It is a rather startling game of words that Sultan and the Social Democrats are engaged in. I would therefore like to ask how she reconciles this with her fairness. I would also like to ask Sultan to explain the logic behind the municipalities chosen. Why don't those who live in Hofors, Grums, Laxå or Surahammar get the tax cut? But those who live in Skellefteå and Östersund, which are medium-sized Swedish cities, get it. It's pretty incomprehensible.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-480	In all humility, I would just like to remind you that we use first and last names in the speaker's chair.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-481	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Fredrik Schulte! This definition of justice speaks for Moderate politics. When you carried out job tax deductions after job tax deductions so that it became pensioners and sick people who finally had to pay the highest tax of all, you did not think of justice. When you lowered the tax most for the rich who already have it best, you did not talk about justice. When your tax cuts caused the rifts to launch at rocket speed and hit ordinary people, you were not talking about justice. Because this was moderate politics at its best when it pulls our country apart. The party that used tax cuts as a universal solution to everything now suddenly wants to stop a tax reduction that will compensate something for situational disadvantages in some areas. When a reduction can now benefit most those who have the least, the Moderates will certainly speak of justice. It is indeed a school book definition of bourgeois nonsense. As stated in the bill, the division of areas is about situational disadvantages that are assessed in the parts that are affected by the tax reduction. You cannot go here on the size of cities in the sense that the Moderate Member is trying to do. Instead, it is a question of situational problems that have to do with population density and distance.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-484	Madam President, I would like The hypocrisy of the Social Democrats is every time equally comical. When the Moderates want to phase out inheritance, gift and military taxes and introduce job tax deductions so that it pays for ordinary people to work, the Social Democrats think it is a matter of terrible injustice. When they themselves phase out inheritance, gift and military taxes and now want to lower taxes for high-income people in Skellefteå and Östersund but not for low-income people in, for example, Rinkeby, Tjärna meadows or Angered, it is suddenly the height of justice. This is an amazing hypocrisy on the part of the Social Democrats. I think most people will see this through this time. We will see the voters fleeing from the Social Democratic Party. Perhaps there was a sense of justice in the Social Democrats at one time, but it no longer exists. Now we are talking about arbitrary tax cuts to some just because they live in a certain municipality. Perhaps there was a feeling in the Social Democrats that Sweden would be well cared for, but now it is gone. Now gang crime is free to rage. We have the lowest growth in the whole of Europe. We are among those with the highest unemployment in Europe. We have an historic increase in public debt. Perhaps there was a feeling within the Social Democracy that you cared about and understood the situation of ordinary people, but this feeling is gone. Symbol politics are now being introduced, such as shock-raised petrol and vehicle taxes, plastic bag taxes and air taxes that remove air routes to dehooks in Sweden, which makes it difficult to live in rural areas. Then, as a little plaster on the wounds, you try to give a hundred quid in tax reduction, which is also so misplaced that those who really have a hard time in society do not get it, while high-income people who live in Östersund and Skellefteå get it. There is no logic in this. It is a symptomatic and typical example of this government not being able to address social problems and how it mishandles Sweden. I think most people realise that Sweden has deteriorated during this government's time.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-489	Madam President, I would like The moderate Member here is making a substantial redrafting of history. If I may describe the height of justice, it certainly does not look like that. Instead, it would be to redistribute the wealth of our country so that they can benefit ordinary people. It differs from what the Moderates did during the entire time of the Alliance Government, Fredrik Schulte. You said you gave to ordinary people but actually gave the most to those who already had the most. There are a lot of studies and statistics that show that the richer have become very much richer while those who are in the worse off have fallen behind a lot. And that is because of that policy. Let me return to what we are debating today and about which you have both written and which you say in this debate. It's about the environmental perspective. You would rather talk about taxes that would mean that there is no environmental policy. Actually, I have a question about that. I have reviewed your draft budget. On the one hand, you are trying to say that you take responsibility for Sweden, on the other hand you have completely lost the job issue. You also say that the Swedish Democrats are a natural partner for you, but they have no climate profile in their policies at all. We can see that you too have lost a great deal of it. I would like to hear more about this in another debate. The honourable Member is not in a position to answer that now. What climate policy do you have in this context?
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-492	Madam President, I would like When the countryside is well, Sweden is fine. In rural areas, many of our large export companies extract their raw materials. Almost all our food is produced here, and it creates the renewable energy and biofuels we need for a real climate change. Visitors from all over the world come here to experience our nature. Here people go in search of peace and quiet or excitement. However, large parts of the countryside, especially in north-west Sweden, face major geographical and demographic challenges. Large distances, declining population development and a high proportion of older people mean that many in rural areas pay more tax than in many other municipalities, although they often receive less public service in exchange. According to Statistics Sweden, the demographic gap between cities and countries will increase in the future. It risks exacerbating a cycle of even higher taxes, even greater depopulation and even worse economic conditions. We have to break the negative spiral, and it's urgent. This development not only puts rural areas at an economic disadvantage, but also represents a deep structural injustice. Rural people have the right to equal care, school, care, security and infrastructure as everyone else. They should also have a level playing field. If this does not happen, confidence in society risks decreasing and dissatisfaction spreading. Madam President, I would like Although rural residents pay higher taxes than average, it takes longer and costs more money for them to get to work, school and the service office. You have worse public transport. In addition, we often see rural people joining forces to coordinate snow clearance, sanitation, water networks, street lights, playgrounds, bathing areas, jetties and broadband. It is important that rural people are compensated for the unique challenges they face. We must therefore take proper care of the unfair tax gap that currently exists between city and country. Madam President, I would like The gap between town and country needs to be closed on several fronts. The tax equalisation system contains, from 1 January this year, a greater focus on sparseness. It is an important reform to strengthen the conditions for rural municipalities. The tax equalisation system is something we all relate to here, and we see different needs for change. For the Center Party, the most important thing was that a functioning system for rural areas came into place. Badly maintained roads are everyday for many in rural areas. In addition, you may have to pay out of your own pocket for the road you live along and travel on. At the same time, like all other roads, you pay through the tax bill and you pay for other roads. The strengthening of road maintenance with a particular focus on bearing capacity and frost securing is a central part of the January agreement. The allocation for road maintenance was previously 118 million for 2020. In the spring, 300 million extra was allocated, and in the 2021 budget we have managed to add another 500 million. In addition, the Center Party is pushing the issue of a rural deduction for community contributions. Rural residents can then benefit from a deduction of the co-existence fee they pay for, among other things, roads. What is obvious in a big city – that the road has bearing capacity and is frostproof and snow-ploughed – rural dwellers often have to arrange resources for out of their own pocket. The ongoing pandemic has made it clear to everyone that the need for broadband throughout the country is a fundamental part of the infrastructure and something that everyone must have access to. Now, through agreements in the January agreement, nearly SEK 2 billion will be invested in broadband over a five-year period throughout the country. Madam President, I would like The reduction in income tax on rural residents is an important step among many that must be taken to build up the area by area the structural inequalities that are now evident. The Center Party launched proposals for increased deduction in Almedalen in 2019 and is already seeing a first result on the issue. This proposal means that residents in sparsely populated areas receive a government tax reduction. There will be a tax reduction for residents in more than 70 municipalities in the north-west of Sweden. It does not affect the municipalities' tax revenue, but according to the Center Party has an important signal value. I support the committee's proposal.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-503	Madam President, I would like I had first actually intended to ask the Centre Party the same question that I put to the Social Democrats, given that the Social Democrats might not really give a very comprehensive answer about the fairness of some people living in certain municipalities receiving lower taxes than others. But then it occurred to me that promoting certain groups and providing special solutions to certain municipalities in many ways is at the heart of the policy of the Center Party. They want to reduce employers' contributions, but not for all companies, but only for those who hire young people. They want regional aid for some regions but not others. They want lower tax rates for some companies but not for other companies. Now it's about lower taxes for some people but not other people. What do I really want to say about this? Well, I would have said that the Center Party is not a party for those who want to see market-liberal reforms. Market-liberal reforms and market economies call for equivalent rules that do not distort competition. If you burn for those issues, it is clear that the Center Party is not the election. However, what I would like to ask the Centre Party representative Helena Vilhelmsson is whether she can explain the logic behind which municipalities have been selected. I also asked the Social Democrats that question, but I did not get a sensible answer. Why should medium-sized cities like Östersund and Skellefteå get this tax cut, but not Hofors, Grums, Laxå and Surahammar? What's the logic behind that? You're very welcome to explain that. You are also very welcome to explain the logic behind giving a hundred to some people in the countryside – but not all – and then taking a thousand with the other hand through increased petrol tax, increased vehicle tax and a re-imposed airline tax that will turn off routes to many off-hooks of the country. Please explain this logic!
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-507	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by backing one step back so that we can see the situation as it is today. You mentioned market-liberal reforms, Fredrik Schulte. For market-liberal reforms to work, it needs as a step a level playing field. It's the base. The Center Party believes that this is not the case today. The fact that these very municipalities have been selected is because they are part of assisted areas A or B, as is stated in the report. I'm sure the honourable Member knows why we've chosen them. This is a first step. As I said in my speech, we want to move forward in order to achieve, accurately, even more victims of the structural inequalities that persist after many years of centralisation policy. Do the Moderates think it's okay that residents in Undersåker in Jämtland should pay their own way, their own playground and their own library? These are the injustices we want to overcome. This actually makes me think that the accuracy is quite good. General tax cuts are great, but in some eyes they may seem very different. A general tax reduction gives more in the wallet for the rich on Östermalm as well as for others. I believe that this proposal has a fairly high and broad accuracy. It's a first step. For example, we want to continue working with rural deductions.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-512	Madam President, I would like High and wide accuracy? We're talking about about 100 kroner a month. Hold your horses! This will have little effect on rural life. On the other hand, what will have a major impact on rural life is the increase in taxes on petrol, the increase in vehicle taxes and air taxes, which will lead to the closure of routes. It will have a negative impact on life in the real countryside. I urge people to look through the rhetoric and see the reality. It is one thing to stand here and say fine words, but practical politics actually strikes quite brutally against many parts of the country. I note that we do not get a sensible answer to why Östersund and Skellefteå, medium-sized Swedish cities, should receive this tax reduction, while smaller towns in Jämtland, for example, do not get it. Maybe the answer will come in the next line, but I doubt it. Finally, I would like to clarify the concepts a little. No one in Sweden is against giving support to parts of the country that are more struggling. There is no party and no Member of Parliament questioning it. But for that we have the municipal tax equalisation system, which Helena Vilhelmsson mentioned in her opening speech. It is primarily through that system that this distribution is to be managed. Why, then, is it so important that this should happen? Well, it is important because we are causing distortions of competition if we are constantly making such special solutions, to which the Center Party is constantly so in love, with reduced social security contributions for that particular group, reduced taxes for this particular type of company and now reduced income taxes for certain types of people depending on where they live. For a market economy to work, it must be as uniform a regulatory framework as possible. Regional equalisation must take place through the municipal tax equalisation system in order to obtain a transparent system and not distortion.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-517	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with the honourable Member that the most important instrument here is a functioning tax equalisation system. Therefore, we in the Center Party were very pleased that we pushed through a sparse index in the tax equalisation system. I'm not sure the Moderates were on that puck. But we must take this into account in another debate. I have not talked at all about the amount of the tax reduction. I can do it later. But when I talk about accuracy, I mean that this tax reform actually reaches those who have identified higher costs and no others. Then there are others who have, and I have said so. Fredrik Schulte! You said you didn't get an answer to the question of what's coming. We have said that the next step is to work for, for example, a rural deduction. Regional tax bases are also something we want to work for. It's a long way to go, but it's a very important thing. As a conclusion, we can return to the sum. I think it's a little interesting that it's ragged about the actual sum. There's talk of a pizza a month and so on. I wonder if it would sound the same if we – which God forbidden – were to face a decision on a tax increase. Would a tax increase of the same amount have been equally irrelevant to people's everyday lives? Probably not! This says that there is a large signal value. Then you can think what you want about how important it is. But I'm pretty proud that we have the courage to make a decision like this. We give a strong signal to those living in an area of structural injustice: We see you, and we will give you a relief in everyday life!
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-521	I would remind you that it is the first name and surname that are used in the speaker's chair and not in you. That goes for everyone.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-522	Madam President, I would like Sweden has large and rapidly increasing economic gaps. Inequality is visible on maps – between regions and within our cities. Of the ten richest municipalities in Sweden, there are eight in Stockholm County. All ten poorest people are in rural areas. It is not difficult to note that the countryside, the farmhouses and the suburbs have been left behind. The proposal we are debating today concerns areas that often have higher municipal taxes than the rest of the country and less access to public services. The proposal we are debating today concerns areas that often have higher municipal taxes than the rest of the country and less access to public services. The proposal does not solve the fundamental problems, but requires fair economic conditions for residents of sparsely populated municipalities. There is also a need for a comprehensive strategy based on long-term sustainability and a clear responsibility for the state to ensure that basic public services exist throughout the country. Access to public services is crucial for people to live and live their lives. Government services must also be available in rural and sparsely populated areas. The Left Party wants to see initiatives that affect all parts of society, and it is not solved by such a tax reduction. This, of course, is not enough of the government. There is a need for a broad tax reform based on equality and increased government resources for welfare. At the same time, we want the system of municipal equalisation to be strengthened. It should be possible to live in the whole country, and everyone should be able to take part in well-functioning welfare activities. Today, all municipalities are far from having the same conditions. The widening of class divisions has torn society apart. The betrayed parts of Sweden have one thing in common. It is when market forces are given free leeway that shops are closed and jobs disappear. The market only asks how many people can pay. The resources will then be drawn to the cities and to the centres. Public service shall not be governed by market logic and shall be based solely on demand. Sweden should be a country that holds together. Our common wealth is created by the resources of the whole country and the work of the whole country. Then it'll also come to everyone's attention. For we look at the tax system, Sweden stands out by not levying taxes on, for example, inheritances, fortunes or properties. One example is the property tax we had previously converted into a fee where the multimillionaire in the 20 million villa in the big city pays no more than the ordinary employee in the normal villa in the sparsely populated area. But not only is Sweden unique by having neither inheritance nor property tax. Sweden has gone even further by introducing grants specifically aimed at those with financial resources. The money has thus been concentrated on the richest in Sweden. Solving the issue we are debating today requires a strong redistributive policy.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-531	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats are working for reduced taxes. When we've been in government, we've been involved in cutting taxes. The budget we received together with the Moderates in 2018 helped to reduce taxes, and in our opposition budgets we have over the years put forward various proposals for tax cuts. The reduction in taxes is an end in itself. It contributes to greater freedom for people. It increases incentives for work and entrepreneurship. It strengthens households' finances, increases growth and creates more jobs. In the budget we have just presented in response to the January parties' budget, we are proposing a reduction in taxes for everyone. The January parties – the government, the Center Party and the Liberals – have chosen a different path. Instead of tax cuts that benefit everyone, the governing parties select certain groups for which taxes are reduced. This time it is your place of residence that determines whether there is a tax reduction or not. The government's policy makes me think of the old humor program Varan-TV, which, fortunately, is up to date again. There was an element of important social information. It sounded something like this: Now it starts to paint for Christmas, and Santa Claus will present Christmas gifts this year in the following municipalities: Höganäs, Mariestad, Gothenburg postcode area 530 33 and Gällivare. Merry Christmas! Madam President, I would like With this proposal, the January parties deal with fiscal policy in the same arbitrary way as Varan-TV's Santa Claus dealt with the Christmas gift delivery. How else is it that a assistant nurse in rural municipalities like Herrljunga and Emmaboda does not get a tax cut, while a assistant nurse in Ragunda or Vansbro gets it? Why is it that those living in rural areas in the northern part of Falun's municipality do not receive a tax reduction while those living on the other side of the rural border in Rättvik municipality receive a tax reduction? The tax reduction is not just arbitrary. It also infringes the principle of a system of equal treatment. This is serious because it risks undermining public confidence in the tax system and ultimately also confidence in the state. Moreover, it is unfortunate that a tax system that is already complicated now becomes even more complex. What is perhaps the most strange thing in this context is that the January parties have, on the contrary, promised to simplify the tax system. Madam President, I would like It is not just us Christian Democrats who are opposed to this unfair and arbitrary tax reduction. In referrals, there is clear opposition. LO is against, and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise is against. The Academy Association SSR and TCO are against. The Economic Institute and Umeå University believe that there is no empirical evidence that justifies the proposal. This tax reduction suffers from major shortcomings. We in the Christian Democrats say no to this in our budgetary motions. Instead, our budget would have meant tax cuts for everyone. In addition, we ensure that fewer employees, such as midwives and police officers, pay government taxes. Madam President, I would like Since our budget option fell in the parliamentary budget vote last autumn, and this bill is a consequence of the budget adopted, the Christian Democrats will refrain from taking part in this decision.
i-4fce5c301724d2d7-539	Madam President, I would like If you are a person like me, who likes to lower taxes and thinks that people would be allowed to keep more of their own money themselves, you are quite happy when you hear Social Democrats who talk about tax cuts giving security and creating life chances. That was about the summary of the Socialist intervention here earlier in the debate. We have heard left-wing parties who also sign up to lower taxes. That's amazing! The right-winging of Swedish economic policy is something that one could only dream of. Milton Friedman, the economist whom some of us here like and some of us certainly like less, is perhaps one of the most prominent economists of the present time. He said something like this, and now I translate freely and paraphrase a little bit. He said he was for every tax cut, everywhere, always and for whatever reason. All tax reductions are good tax reductions, regardless of the context, when, where, how and why. You're supposed to lower your taxes. I cannot avoid a little bit when I think of Milton Friedman in his heaven, where he looks down at the Social Democrats and the Left Party in this House today. I think he'd be proud of your left-wing parties. You certainly share this fact that the tax should be down for whatever reason, no matter where and no matter the time. Madam President, I would like It is clear that this tax reduction has not been the tax cut in the budgets of the January parties which has been the main issue of the Liberals' tax policy. As has been said here before from, for example, the Christian Democrats, one of our main tax policy issues has been to bring about a broad tax reform to make the tax system simpler and more uniform. Then one can imagine that it is strange that this is going along with this. Yes, it's true. But the point here is that it is being done in anticipation of a broad tax reform, before we have put this in the water. It will be brought to fruition with the January parties. Pending this, it is good to reduce the tax burden and reduce the tax as much as possible. When we make such a tax reform – which will probably be tough for all parties involved but absolutely necessary for the country – the starting point of the tax situation will be a lower tax rate than it would have been if, for example, this tax reduction were not done. That is, of course, very important. There was someone in this House today who scoffed at the Social Democrats' tax benches and said that when the Alliance wanted to lower the tax, it was scolded by the Social Democrats, but now the Social Democrats themselves want to lower the tax. Yes, when the Social Democrats want to lower the tax, some so-called right parties in this Chamber seem to want to yell at them, but when you want to lower the tax yourself, you beat yourself to the chest. I would like to say, Madam President, that a tax chandelier less to the state and a tax chandelier more in a citizen's wallet is something positive. Because, as Milton Friedman said, we are in favour of tax cuts everywhere, always and for whatever reason. In this case, it is a targeted tax reduction, and I would like it to be broadened in the future so that there are more and more. It has been pointed out earlier here in the speaker's chair that there are municipalities and towns in Sweden that would probably need tax cuts more than some of those now covered. This is one reason for returning to the reform and extending it so that more people get reduced tax. That is not a reason to be against the reform; it is one reason why we want the reform and go further so that more people get reduced tax. Ideally, every cow in this country would get a reduced employer's fee.
