i-ec464d42452b062b-0	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has asked the Minister of Finance how the uncertainty surrounding migration policy affects the Minister of Finance's assessment of the need for safety margins and budgetary margins and the need for other economic policy measures in the state budget for the years to come. Niklas Wykman has also asked the Minister for Finance what public financial implications the Minister estimates the socio-economic costs of crime and how it affects the Minister's intention to further investigate the issues and take further steps in economic policy to pursue sustainable public finances. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Since 2015, the government has changed Swedish migration policy. Among other things, border controls, identification checks and temporary legislation were introduced. This contributed to fewer people applying for asylum in Sweden. Since 2016, expenditure on migration and integration has decreased by SEK 35 billion. This substantial reduction in expenditure could not have happened without the measures taken by the government in recent years. For the coming years, the Migration Agency predicts that migration and integration expenditure will be reduced by several billion SEK. At the same time, the Finnish Immigration Service's forecast also shows that even fewer will apply for asylum in Sweden this year. The number of asylum seekers this year is expected to be the lowest in 20 years. In addition, in recent years, the government has taken a series of measures to increase return, both the voluntary, which is the bulk of the return, and what is done under coercion. There is therefore no justification for the concern expressed by Niklas Wykman. As far as the issue of sustainable public finances is concerned, order and order in public finances are fundamental to government policy. Not least in the exceptional situation of the coronapandemy, it is of the utmost importance that public funds are used efficiently and where they are most needed – to stimulate the economy, keep unemployment down, maintain the competitiveness of businesses and secure welfare. It is also very important that public funds are not paid out wrongly and fall into the hands of criminals. In addition to the controls already carried out by the authorities, I have therefore appointed an investigator to analyse and propose measures that reduce the risk of crimes linked to the Corona-related support measures with fiscal and socio-economic consequences. The investigator shall continuously report his work to the Government Office. The cost of crime to individuals, businesses and the public, and ultimately its impact on public finances, is difficult to calculate. When the Swedish Crime Prevention Council, on behalf of the Government in 2017, produced a knowledge overview in this area, it emerged that, although the subject has been researched for a long time, there is no consensus on both the scale of the costs and how they should be calculated. However, the costs are assumed to be significant, and this is indicative for the government. The fight against and prevention of crime is urgently needed to save crime victims and relatives suffering and society, business and individual high costs. The government is doing extensive work to reduce crime in society. We are increasing the number of police employees by 10,000 to 2024. V i has tightened the penalties for a number of crimes, and we have given law enforcement more effective crime prevention tools. The government has also presented the so-called 34-point programme of further measures against criminal networks in the short and long term. It's the biggest package against gang crime ever. There is now intensive work in progress to implement the programme. It is important that crime is discovered, that the perpetrators are prosecuted and that the victims of crime get redress, but it is also very important to prevent any crime from being committed at all. The government's crime prevention initiative creates the conditions for structured and long-term crime prevention work throughout society. In particular, it is important to prevent children and young people from getting involved in abuse or crime. The Government has previously decided to strengthen schools and social services, and the 34-point programme takes further measures for children and young people at risk and in social services and schools in socially vulnerable areas. By reducing the influx of individuals involved in abuse and crime, we can also reduce gang crime and other crime and increase security in society.
i-ThQRUs1nVXHh7Bp3vChKP3	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Morgan Johansson, for the answer or information about the interpellation! Morgan Johansson says that there is no justification for the concerns that I express in the interpellation. It is a concern that is based on the reality in which we live – in Sweden today. A lot of people have lost their job. Many people are victims of crime. Many people live in deep alienation. It is a Sweden characterised by extensive insecurity and a great deal of uncertainty. People wonder where all the money the government now spends in its budget bill actually comes from. Who's gonna pay? How much is to be paid back? People see their children being subjected to crime. Children and young people are afraid to go out at night. The most bestial crimes befall this country's young people. But Morgan Johansson concludes: There is no reason for Niklas Wykman's concern. I therefore believe that the Council of State is a little too casually dismissing a very widespread concern in society, which is perhaps not primarily reflected in my own emotional register, but is a reality and a reality for a great many people around our country. Morgan Johansson then holds a long presentation about various measures and point programmes. These are 74-point programs, 34-point programs, 32-point programs and 24-point programs. There are many specific programmes from the January parties in general, but surely the question is where the real measures are. How is it, as the Police magazine showed, that there are fewer police officers in external service now than it was before? That is an example. With all this said, that is not what Morgan Johansson's answer or my interpellation is about. Above all, Morgan Johansson does not respond to my interpellation, which is about the risks in public finances. For many, it is perhaps a clear idea that Morgan Johansson should have enough to deal with migration policy and justice policy and to try to combat the crime wave that has hit the country, but the government has also handed over this interpellation on public finances to the Minister of Justice. The Minister for Justice must nevertheless be asked how he views the state of public finances. Does the Minister of Justice have an answer regarding, for example, the SEK 200 billion that the government is now spending and which do not exist? Where does the 200 billion come from? For next year and the following year, the government proposes to spend SEK 200 billion that does not exist. I wonder, Morgan Johansson: Where is that money now? Is there no reason to be concerned about this?
i-ec464d42452b062b-19	Mr President, I would like to No, not for public finances. That's exactly what Niklas Wykman is interrogating me about. Yes, there are good reasons to be concerned about gang crime and other types of crime. That is exactly why we in the government are taking the measures that we are taking – to combat this kind of crime. That is certainly where we agree. But what Niklas Wykman is interrogating me about is not about that, it is about concern for public finances. It is perhaps a bit daring of a moderate to bring up a discussion of the state finances with a social democrat, because if we know anything about the Moderate record of the state finances, it is that it is not very good. I think it is on five occasions in Sweden's modern history that public finances have collapsed. It was during World War I, World War II, the first bourgeois government in the 1970s, the second bourgeois government in the 1990s and the latest bourgeois government in 2006–2014. In 2006, when you won the election, we gave you a surplus of SEK 68 billion, which Göran Persson had made. It took you two years to end this money. You spent so much on this money that you didn't even have money for the police and had to cut police training by 90% in two years. When your government period was over in 2014, a deficit of up to SEK 60 billion was noted. So you turned a surplus into a deficit. Mr President, I would like to No moderate can teach a social democrat anything about keeping order in public finances. We also see this clearly now. Just a few months ago, the Moderates went out and said that the state should plow down 100 billion a month to companies because of the Corona crisis. If we had followed your advice and plowed down 100 billion a month, the money would have been over by now. Then we would not have had the money that we can use today to just restart the Swedish economy, with large investments in welfare, climate change, law enforcement and the judicial authorities and much more to strengthen Sweden. Because we did not follow the advice of the Moderates a few months ago, we now have this money that we can use. Now that we are taking this money, of course, it means that the public debt is increasing. It increases from about 35 percent of bnp to about 42 percent of bnp, which is far below what most other countries have. I would say that the average of the EU Member States is a national debt of over 80%. Although we are now using money that we have saved up during our years, Sweden will continue to have among Europe's best public finances. My brief answer to Niklas Wykman's question is: there is reason to be concerned about gang crime today, but there is no reason to be concerned about the state finances at this point. Thanks to the responsible economic policy we have pursued over the past six years, we have made sure to create exactly the space we now need in order to restart the Swedish economy.
i-ec464d42452b062b-26	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes ignorance is the best basis for self-confidence. If you have no knowledge of what reality looks like, it is easy to have strong faith in your own opinion, even if it may not be true. Morgan Johansson says we had a collapse in public finances in 2008. I wonder what Morgan Johansson bases this statement on. And if we had a collapse in public finances in 2008, what do we have in 2020? How much did the public debt increase in 2008, and how much did it increase in 2020 – even in relation to the bnp cap, for example? How does Morgan Johansson view facts that may be outside an optional SSU course? How does Morgan Johansson view the development of the S2 indicator for the sustainability of public finances, for example? How does Morgan Johansson see the expenditure ceiling being blown up by SEK 250 billion next year? How does Morgan Johansson see that none of the anchors in the public financial framework are respected? The debt exceeds the maximum range of 40 % of bnp. The surplus target is missed by at least 21⁄2%, which is the structural deficit in GDP, i.e. not the de facto GDP deficit, but the deficit against the cyclically adjusted GDP. The government ignores the cornerstones of the fiscal framework, which exists for Sweden to be managed in a long-term sustainable way. The expenditure ceiling and the debt ceiling are blown up and the surplus target is not reached. Is Morgan Johansson really serious when he says that he has nothing to learn about the management of public finances? Can Morgan Johansson say what year the government in which Morgan Johansson is a minister has reached the surplus target? What year has the budget been in line with the surplus target according to the Fiscal Council or, for that matter, according to the government's own forecasts? It is a year, and has Morgan Johansson nothing to learn, he probably has no problem answering the question either.
i-ec464d42452b062b-33	Mr President, I would like to After we took over in 2014, Sweden has gone with surpluses every year and to such an extent that we grazed the public debt until we had the lowest public debt since 1977. These were the effects of the policy we pursued. That Niklas Wykman stands and oversaw SSU courses and that I would be ignorant will have to stand for him. I worked for Göran Persson 23 years ago when we cleaned up the public finances after you had caused a lot of misery and doubled the public debt. I know very well what it is to gnet in all accounts to save the Swedish economy. I don't know what Niklas Wykman did 23 years ago, but this is what I did in the late 90s. I didn't say public finances collapsed in 2008. I said that from 2006 to 2014 you turned the surplus you received from us into a deficit when you left the government. It went from just over 60 billion in surplus to just over 60 billion in deficit. You ran out of Swedish public finances to such an extent that you could not even finance the police, and therefore you reduced police training by 90% in two years. The first thing we had to do when we took office in 2014 was to take care of the government's financial deficit and try to rebuild the Swedish judiciary. We are now training three times as many police officers as you did during your period, speaking about what this discussion is also about, crime and law enforcement. Niklas Wykman says that we will not meet the surplus target this year or the next year. It will be exciting to see if there is a surplus in the Moderates' draft budget, that is, in their response to our budget proposal. If so, there will be huge cuts in welfare or huge tax increases. However, my guess is that when Niklas Wykman and his party colleagues present their budget bill, it will not meet the demands he himself has said that you should live up to. We have to say that precisely because of the Corona crisis we must deal with the Swedish economy so that we use the muscles that we have built up during our time and use this money to restart the Swedish economy. It's about welfare efforts and climate action. It is about ensuring that there are more jobs and, as I said, it is also about strengthening law enforcement.
i-ec464d42452b062b-39	Mr President, I would like to The surplus target is not to have surpluses in public finances every year. The surplus target is that one-third of GDP in surplus over a business cycle should now be in surplus. Before you lowered the surplus target, it was 1% of GDP in surplus in public finances over a business cycle. It was an objective that, as far as I can remember, the alliance government was judged to live up to each year by the Council of Finance Policy, but which the present and present Social Democratic-led government has fulfilled only one year. So it is not a matter of beating your chest because you have a small surplus in very good times. It is about having sufficient surpluses in good times to ensure that over a business cycle the surplus is determined according to the surplus target. This government did not, nor did the previous Social Democratic Government. For this they have received serious criticism from their own expert council, the Financial Policy Council. Morgan Johansson has failed to get a broad and sustainable migration policy in Sweden. This intervention concerns the risks to public finances. Mr President, I would like to Here and now, the pressure on refugees against Sweden is not as great, but it is governed not only by factors we affect ourselves but also by the international situation. Morgan Johansson can perhaps agree with me that what happens in the outside world sometimes constitutes a driving force or a risk for Sweden. As the Minister himself says, we have temporary legislation. However, since we do not have a new comprehensive migration policy in place in Sweden, the Minister may still see that there is a risk to public finances in this if the unrest in the rest of the world increases.
i-ec464d42452b062b-43	Mr President, I would like to Let us talk about migration in the final speech. When I took office in 2014, Sweden had the EU's most generous asylum policy. It was the Moderate Government that had introduced it. Sweden had the world's most generous rules for labour migration. It was also the Moderate Government that had introduced them. I'm sure Niklas Wykman knows that. From what I understand, you were elected to Parliament in 2014 on such a message; open your hearts. That's what Reinfeldt ran with in that election campaign. Right? The first thing I had to do as Minister of Migration was tighten the rules. When I took office, 12% of all asylum seekers came to Sweden. Today it is 3%. The number of asylum seekers has fallen by nearly 90 per cent since 2015. The costs of both migration and integration have decreased by 35 billion since 2016. These were the necessary decisions; ID checks, border controls and the temporary law. We are now working on a new legislation that will be in place and that will be sustainable in the long term. I can assure Niklas Wykman and everyone else that I will not release a development that is similar to the one we had to take over from you in 2014, but we must ensure that we have control of that part too. There are great risks to public finances, not least. This is where the Moderates tear up public finances time and again. Every time you rule, there will be a deficit, and then Niklas Wykman stands up and barks at me because we are not restoring finances quickly enough. There is little credibility, Mr President, in this kind of argument on the part of the Moderates.
i-ec464d42452b062b-48	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has asked me if I share the view that the Alliance's tax cuts between 2006 and 2014 are a reason for the development of youth robbery, which according to Wykman the Prime Minister has expressed in an interview. Mr Wykman has also asked me what measures I intend to take or refrain from taking in the light of this position. The government is seriously considering that the reported youth robberies have increased in recent years. Personal robbery is a crime that, in addition to financial and physical damage, can also cause fear and anxiety for a long time after the crime. Personal robbery may also indicate continued crime among young individuals who commit such crimes. The Police Authority works actively against this type of crime, including through increased police presence in places and times where such crimes are often committed. Reversal also requires a broad range of measures from social services, health care and school, for example. The Government is carrying out extensive work to strengthen and develop the law enforcement and crime prevention work. We have so far reached the halfway point of the target of 10 000 more employees at the Police Authority, which creates significantly better conditions for an increased police presence locally. We have tightened the penalties for a wide range of crimes, including aggravated robbery, and given the authorities new law enforcement tools. The government's crime prevention initiative also creates the conditions for long-term crime prevention work throughout society. In autumn 2019, the government presented the 34-point programme, the largest package against gang crime in Sweden ever, with measures in both the short and long term. There is now intensive work to implement the programme, which also improves the conditions for working against other crime. Several of the measures under the 34-point programme are aimed in whole or in part at young offenders. These include improved investigative measures when children are suspected of crime, increased opportunities for social services to intervene and additional resources for LVU placements. The 34-point programme also contains several criminal measures that are relevant when we talk about robbery, such as the introduction of the penalty for youth surveillance, where the young person is to receive so-called weekend home arrest, a ban on leaving the home during weekend nights and weekend nights. The government has also referred a proposal to abolish the youth reduction for young adults in cases of crimes with a minimum sentence of one year's imprisonment or more. This also includes robbery and means that the penalty will double for an 18-year-old convicted of such a crime. According to the Government, it is very important that children and young people at risk of being involved in crime or abuse receive the necessary support measures. On behalf of the Government, there is ongoing development work on early and coordinated efforts and improved collaboration between student health, health care and social services. Under the 34-point programme, work has been extended to include specific and targeted actions against risk groups among children and young people in socially vulnerable areas. It also examines the question of more stringent penalties for those who involve young people in criminal proceedings. Those affected by crime need help and support. The Government has carried out a comprehensive investment in society's victim support organisations. The government has also improved the opportunities for victims and witnesses to participate in trials through videoconferencing. An ongoing investigation addresses issues such as witness protection and witness support. According to the government, a broad and expanded welfare basis for a well-functioning society. Tax-funded activities such as the judiciary, social services and school are central to efforts to increase security and reduce crime. The government prioritises more funds for welfare, not less. Not least, activities that contribute to law enforcement and crime prevention need to be the focus.
i-ec464d42452b062b-58	Mr President, I would like to The Government of Morgan Johansson is clearly satisfied with the development in Sweden. There's a 34-point program. Not all people outside the 34-point programme share the Government's assessment that the development in Sweden is particularly positive. On the contrary, you no longer only watch television but face in your daily life, if not daily at least often enough to make it totally unacceptable, the new serious, hard crime that this country has suffered. Young people suffer from pure bestial acts. These are open street shootings and criminal networks. Sweden is affected by a crime that we have not seen before, and this has happened during Morgan Johansson's time as Minister of Justice. Interpellation is based not on what measures are needed but on understanding the causes of crime. I'm asking Morgan Johansson what the government is doing, and he's assessing the basis for the crimes. Morgan Johansson's head Prime Minister Stefan Löfven has argued that it is tax relief that is responsible for juvenile crime, that is, that the job tax deduction that has given a nurse a month's salary more each year to live on would have contributed to our having suffered from crime. For the Swedish people and for the House, it is of course important to know whether it is an assessment that the Government also makes. Is it the extra monthly salary each year for the assistant nurse behind the organised crime in Sweden? Or does Morgan Johansson make a different assessment than that made by Stefan Löfven when he spoke this in an interview? For the House and the Swedish people, it is of course essential to know what analysis Morgan Johansson makes of the reasons why society has become as it has become, to the crime, to the insecurity, to the fear that exists among our young people, to the terror that affects the parents of young people, to the general insecurity that has spread. Is it the extra monthly salary for the assistant nurse that is behind it, according to Stefan Löfven previously argued in interviews? He believes that it is the tax cuts that have laid the foundations for this. Is there anything else here that is responsible for the spread of crime? Understanding the causes can often be at least as important as the measures. Whether the measures are appropriate, Mr President, depends on the reasons.
i-ec464d42452b062b-64	Mr President, I would like to Apart from the fact that the Prime Minister has not understood what is responsible for juvenile delinquency, he does not seem to have understood how to fight it. In his reply, the Minister commends himself on the 34-point programme. He also boasts of police presence. But the question is how Sweden stands when comparing the number of police officers per 100 000 people with other countries in the EU. One might also wonder why nothing has happened since the 34-point programme was launched a year ago. The juvenile crimes have become worse and worse. My colleague used the word bestial, and that is not an exaggeration. I can tell you why. I am a social secretary by profession, and I can say that the measures used are totally ineffective. The same juvenile offenders commit crimes time and again, and the penalties and measures do not affect them at all. Conversations with social secretaries — criminals laugh at it! In 2017, a new rule emerged that prosecutors cannot arrest juvenile offenders. The police bring them in after they rob, beat up and humiliated their peers. In the afternoon they are released again, in many cases without being questioned, to commit new crimes. If you look at the two criminals who were sentenced in Denmark to harsh, fair punishments, you can see that their track record has been going on since they were 12 – 13 years old – and that is only the documented crimes. If the Minister cannot answer for the Prime Minister, he can answer for himself. When will effective action be taken so that juvenile delinquents do not repeat their crime and do not laugh at justice but take the punishments and the threat of punishment seriously? The Minister says that youth surveillance has been introduced. Yes, it was an announcement from the Riksdag. It took four years from the announcement to the government making it a reality. Then there are the penalty discounts. One boasts that one should change them, that criminals between 18 and 20 years of age will receive the full penalty. But what about the amount discounts? And why only crime that gives a year and a half in penalty? Why not all the crime? What is the reason for this? We have serious problems. In ordinary people, the fear of going out and letting your children out is evident. It is not worthy of a developed country, a country that calls itself the rule of law, and it was not just a decade ago. It has exploded recently, and the government is responsible.
i-ec464d42452b062b-74	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that one can discuss the causes of both juvenile delinquency and, above all, gang crime. You probably have to look for 20–25 years back to find when the criminal gangs established themselves in Sweden. We know that it was among other things in my and Borianas hometowns in western Skåne that Hells Angels and Bandidos started some time in the early 90s. Since then new gang constellations have emerged – genealogical networks, which have been talked about a lot recently, but also more loosely based networks. I say that what we are doing now, Sweden should have done 20 years ago. You'd have suffocated this in the bud. With the punitive measures we are taking forward, the police efforts we are taking forward and the camera surveillance efforts we are taking forward will have an effect, I say. We now have more policemen than ever in Sweden, and we are continuing that expansion. In just a few months, another 500 police officers will be out of police training. We have now tightened the penalties in such a way that we have also increased the presumption of detention. Boriana Åberg says you bring in someone who committed a crime and let it go again in the afternoon. Yes, in the time of the Moderates, for example, in the case of gun crimes. That's how it happened. But after we tightened the penalties for gun crimes, we also received a detention presumption that if you leave home with a gun, well, then there's a big risk that you won't come home again in two years. That is why we have now been able to arrest far more people for weapons crimes. Those who used to run around the streets with guns, they're now locked up. It's the same with the camera surveillance, 450 surveillance cameras are up, and now the police are moving forward with uniform cameras. I think they're going out with almost 8,000 uniform cameras in the future. It is a way to both prevent and clear up more crimes. I'm saying that the 34-point program we're taking forward is offensive. These are the things that will matter. But we should not ignore what we did in the last parliamentary term, including on the police side. Niklas Wykman's interpellation is about the tax reduction issue, so let's take it. When the Moderates lowered the tax by 140 billion over their eight years, it led to two things. One was that you broke out of state finances. You put an end to the surpluses you had received from us. After just a couple of years, the money was over, and how did the Moderates get funding? Among other things, by cutting police training by 90 percent in two years. The first thing we had to do when we took office in 2014 in addition to clearing up public finances was to expand police training, which we have now done. The Moderates have never ever started any new police training. We started it in Växjö. We started in Umeå. It was we who started in Malmö. We're the ones starting in Borås. We are training three times as many police officers as you did in your time. We are moving towards the target we have, namely 10 000 more employees by 2024. This is one thing that happens when you lower the tax – that you can't afford the necessary investments in the justice system. The second thing that happens when you lower the tax, especially if you lower the tax on the richest but at the same time cut down on unemployment and on the welfare of ordinary people, is that you increase the gap. It also happened after eight years of moderate government. The gaps in Sweden increased more and faster than in any other country in the entire OECD area. As a matter of fact, that was the case. When you find yourself in such a situation, you put even more pressure on those who are in the worst position and undermine their confidence in the future, not least young people's confidence in the future, and you increase youth unemployment. This will also increase the risk of them being recruited into criminal gangs. You have to understand that class divisions and crime are connected.
i-ec464d42452b062b-86	Mr President, I would like to You have to praise Morgan Johansson for believing in his politics. There is no doubt about it. As early as 2017, Morgan Johansson stated that they were about to crack the criminal gangs – three years ago. If I am not mistaken, it was in September 2017 that Morgan Johansson in Dagens Nyheter strongly and proudly announced the Swedish people: We are about to crack the criminal gangs. How's it going, Morgan Johansson? Was Morgan Johansson about to crack the criminal gangs in 2017, or was it that the criminal gangs in 2017 were about to crack trust in Swedish society? A lot of people are prepared to say that it is the latter that is true – that the criminal gangs have broken a lot of what is good about Sweden. Morgan Johansson was not about to crack the criminal gangs in 2017. Morgan Johansson's not about to break the criminal gangs now either. This requires other, tougher measures but also better preventive measures than this government delivers. Morgan Johansson claims that tax revenues decreased when the Alliance ruled Sweden. Morgan Johansson has previously argued that he does not need any more knowledge of public finances, but I urge him to read about what happened to tax revenues during the year of the Alliance. Morgan Johansson may be able to answer here and now whether tax revenues increased or decreased during the time when the Alliance ruled Sweden. Morgan Johansson claims that the divides grew record-high under the rule of the Alliance. Perhaps Morgan Johansson can answer the question if they have grown more or less since he entered the government. Morgan Johansson claims that exclusion increases explosively when you lower the tax. In 2014, Sweden had until then the lowest measured exclusion ever. Mr President, I would like to People who listen to this may be a little worried about the minister's if not incorrect so at least strongly alternative reality description. Does the Minister have any answers to the questions that have been asked? Have the gaps increased more or less? Has exclusion decreased faster or slower under this government than under the alliance government? And, Mr President, is the emergence of criminal networks and the crime that affects our young people really due to the fact that a nurse had to keep about one month's pay more each year? It may also be possible, Mr President, to inculcate that the policy pursued by the Alliance, with the job tax deduction, according to the Morgan Johansson often-related organisation LO, increased jobs in society by about 100 000. In total, job tax deductions provide around 150 000 more jobs. If it is jobs that break crime, Morgan Johansson, it is perhaps not so bad that 150 000 more people get a job. And morally, Mr President, there is nothing wrong with those who work and toil having to keep a little more of their own money.
i-ec464d42452b062b-94	Mr President, I would like to The perception that it is income inequality that leads to crime is deeply mistaken. That view discredits many people who work and toil and care for their children. To say bluntly that people on low incomes are criminals or more likely to become criminals is an insult to many. It is precisely this policy, with greater subsidies, larger recreation centres and more staff, that has led to the emergence of criminal clans being missed. The socio-economic causes have been fully addressed. I'm not saying we should ignore them, but they're not the only ones. The minister mentioned gun crimes. It's good to tighten up the punishment. The only problem is that you don't make a difference between a criminal running with a Kalashnikov and a hunter who has forgotten the moose bouncer in the trunk. Moreover, for those criminals who have been caught with weapons, it only gives more status to spend two years in prison. It reinforces violent capital. When they come out, they are treated as heroes in the areas where they operate. As far as surveillance cameras are concerned, I wonder when the municipalities will receive answers to their applications within a reasonable time. Now it takes 12 months to process an application for security cameras. The municipalities are very frustrated. When will the legislator's intention be fulfilled?
i-ec464d42452b062b-98	Mr President, I would like to I understand that both Boriana Åberg and Niklas Wykman would like to join in the debate. But there is, after all, a limit to how to do it. Boriana Åberg says that we do not distinguish between a hunter who has an extra weapon in her luggage and a gang criminal. This is totally wrong. What we've tightened up the penalty for is gross gun crime. We're not arresting hunters who have an extra weapon in their trunk. This is not the way legislation is designed; it has never been. So do not stand in Parliament and say something like that! In fact, there may be people who believe in it. The same applies to Niklas Wykman. I have never claimed that tax revenues decreased during your period. Just go back in the Minutes and look what I really said. I say that the deficit increased during your period, and that is true. You entered the term of office in 2006 with a surplus that we had worked up. Göran Persson had cleaned up the public finances, and we handed over a surplus of SEK 68 billion to you. You spent that money lightning-fast by making tax cuts. You ended them to such an extent that you were then unable to finance substantial public investment, including police training. So it was the deficits that increased during your time, in such a way that you failed the basic task. Then, of course, we can have an ideological discussion about what is really driving crime forward. I am well aware that the answers to those questions are complex. It can be about many different reasons. Nevertheless, I am convinced that if we are unable to pursue policies that give all young people confidence in the future, job opportunities and good education, there is a greater risk of some of them being recruited into criminal gangs. I think it is more or less obvious that this is the case. General welfare policy, that is, a policy in which we keep society together and ensure that all young people have good opportunities to develop, is, in my view, also the best crime prevention measure. But I understand that the Moderates do not want to buy this at all. After all, you have quite the opposite starting point. As soon as you have the opportunity to rule, you do exactly the opposite. You lower taxes, especially for those with the highest incomes, so that they can pull away. As I said, class divisions increased most rapidly throughout the OECD area during your period. Then you push down the most deprived. You're cutting down on unemployment benefits and other types of benefits. When it turns out that you do not manage economic policy, you do not care about it. In your time, too, the rate of social assistance increased sharply. In our years, after we took office in 2014, unemployment decreased year by year, especially youth unemployment, and we saw a trend in which the gaps actually narrowed. Now we are in the midst of a Corona crisis, and the situation is therefore different. But I am convinced that a policy that aims to continue to hold Sweden together and use the money we have now worked up precisely to strengthen equality and reduce class gaps at the same time is also the best crime prevention policy.
i-ec464d42452b062b-105	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking Morgan Johansson for clarifying that tax revenues increased during the time the Alliance ruled Sweden. It is not all times that the Social Democrats have wanted to know this, so it is at least a step in the right direction for understanding how public finances should be managed. Morgan Johansson says that the Moderates want to lower taxes most for those who already have the most. Something lean-hearted, would probably a common knegare, official or worker say, when Morgan Johansson has lowered the tax record a lot for those who have the very highest incomes, by abolishing the military tax, but not given a single crown in tax reduction to people with ordinary jobs and regular income. Morgan Johansson is the abolitionist of the military tax. Of course, it can be good; it should pay off to educate yourself, exert oneself and toil. But it is Morgan Johansson who has pursued a tax policy that lowers taxes for those who earn the most. The Moderates did the opposite. We pursued a tax policy that reduced taxes most for those who earned the least. So there is a huge difference. Morgan Johansson says that there are many different reasons why crime is on the increase. Morgan Johansson's boss was absolutely convinced that it was the Alliance that caused it, until he changed his mind and said it was migration. All in all, this makes people feel a great deal of uncertainty. How will a government that doesn't know what causes crime be able to solve it? Morgan Johansson is also busy blaming previous governments. But when he himself was in opposition, he tweeted that the then Minister of Justice could not blame herself for anything, for she had been Minister of Justice for six years – as long as Morgan Johansson has now been in the government. Take responsibility!
i-ec464d42452b062b-109	Mr President, I would like to First of all, on the issue of tax revenue, the wage bill increases each year as wages increase. This means that, overall, we have a trend increase in tax revenue, regardless of what you do. The problem arises if needs increase faster than tax revenues – that's when we get a deficit. That is exactly what happened for the Moderates, as a result of your tax cuts: You were unable to meet the needs that existed. Instead, you continued to borrow money for tax cuts. This is what you did throughout your last term of office: you lent yourself. As far as the distribution profile is concerned, I am the first to say that if I had the power to decide, we would of course never have abolished the defence tax. Now we settled with other parties on this. The budget now before us has a very fine distribution profile. Most economic reinforcements come to low and middle income earners, and this is a consequence of both tax cuts to low and middle income earners and of strengthening transfer systems. For example, we have improved unemployment insurance in a very significant way, which is of enormous importance to those who are at risk of becoming unemployed. Similarly, we have improved maintenance support. Not least, I would also like to mention the pension contribution. We are raising the pensions of the most deprived pensioners. If Niklas Wykman wants to get a lesson in how to design a good economic policy for distribution policy, I think he should study the distribution analyses that are now being made of the budget that we have just put on the table of Parliament. Then, as I said, I am convinced that increasing the gap will also increase the risk of crime. Therefore, it will always be a social democrat's most important task to fight for greater equality and reduced class divisions.
i-ec464d42452b062b-115	Mr President, I would like to Boriana Åberg has asked me whether I would like to stop the expulsion of migrant workers who support themselves and their families, follow rules and pay taxes. She has also asked when the law that stops the demonstrations of competence will come and whether I am prepared to impose a moratorium on the deportation of skills until a new legislation is in place. The Government has set up an investigation to review the Swedish labour immigration system. We want to make it easier for highly qualified people to work in Sweden, while at the same time taking a broad approach to the problems of abuse and exploitation. In the interim report, which is due to be presented by 1 February next year, the investigator will submit legislative proposals aimed at ending expulsions due to negligible and excusable deficiencies. It is not reasonable for foreign workers to suffer unnecessarily if an employer has made a minor mistake in terms of employment conditions. Nor is it proportionate for a serious employer to lose important skills in such cases. At the same time, it is important that labour immigrants have employment conditions that are in line with Swedish collective agreements or industry practices. It is important to counteract abuse and unhealthy competition. The government cannot grant individuals any form of temporary exemption from the legislation in force. That would be against the Constitution. Changing the conditions for expulsion of labour immigrants would require legislative changes. There is, of course, no question of anticipating the work of the ongoing investigation in such a way. The task of the investigation is to determine which types of deviations from the requirements should not lead to a refusal or withdrawal of a permit and to produce draft constitutions that give the desired result. That is precisely the basis needed to bring forward legislation that prevents the expulsion of migrant workers due to negligible and excusable mistakes. It is too early to say when such legislation can enter into force, but after the partial report has been submitted, the matter will be further prepared within the Government Office.
i-ec464d42452b062b-120	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. Daily it says to read in the newspapers about people who do right themselves, work, pay taxes and so on and still have to leave the country because of small, unintentional mistakes committed without the intent of their employer or in some cases even by previous employers. These include, for example, c ybersafety specialist Marvin, whose position was advertised on Linkedin for several months but only two days on the Arbetsförmedlingen's website, c opywriter Kemi, whose previous employer had not advertised at the Arbetsförmedlingen at all, and d octoranden Muhammad, who was a few experiments from finishing his doctoral thesis at Karolinska Institutet when the Migration Board decided to expel him because he had carried out part of the research in the United States. All these cases indicate that something is obviously wrong with current legislation on labour migration, either with the interpretation of the law, or – perhaps most likely – with both. For which employer advertises qualified services on the Arbetsförmedlingen website? Recruitment takes place almost exclusively through other channels, such as Linkedin, personal contacts or professional recruitment companies. And, of course, the regulatory framework must be adapted to this reality. It is also distressing and directly offensive that all these expulsions of qualified and hard-working persons are carried out unhindered, but when it comes to rapists, murderers and other serious criminal elements, there is always reason not to condemn them to deportation or to find enforcement barriers. This is not only difficult to understand – it is totally unacceptable, and it undermines respect for and trust in our legal society. The Minister says that by February next year there will be a proposal aimed at halting expulsions due to negligible and excusable deficiencies. It is positive that the government has finally, after some tours, including notification to the Constitutional Committee, met Parliament's demands to supplement the directives for the report on labour immigration. We should not forget that the Riksdag already in 2017 called on the government to come back with legislative proposals. That was three years ago. Another question is how long it will take before legislation is in place. D the clearing targets create losses for all those involved – for those who have built a life here and contribute to Sweden's prosperity by paying taxes but also for employers, who depend on competent employees. In ngenjörer, computer specialists and programmers are all examples of professions that there is a shortage of in Sweden. In its reply, the Government welcomes in fine words the arguments I put forward in my interpellation for taking urgent action on these issues. But the will to really do something about it manifests, as so often, by referring to another investigation.
i-ec464d42452b062b-127	Mr President, I would like to It can be seen that it has been a long time since the Moderates ruled Sweden. You can hear that in the post. Just take the suggestion that the government should go in with a moratorium and stop any expulsions. The form of government, our constitution, says that the government cannot intervene in the exercise of authority, but it is the authorities that apply Swedish law. If I were to do this, I would immediately end up in the Constitutional Committee – rightly so, I would say. If you want to influence this, you have to do it with legislation, and then it has to pass through Parliament's Chamber. So what Boriana Åberg proposes is not possible. Let me also remind you, Mr President, that this is essentially Moderate legislation. You're the one who pushed this system through ten years ago. There were an enormous number of errors, not least because we received the world's most generous labour immigration rules. We are, I dare say, the only country in the world that has labour immigration not only for occupations where there is a shortage of labour, but also for occupations where there is no shortage. For example, we have labour migration for personal assistants, cleaners and catering staff in cafes. There are no other countries that have such generous legislation as Sweden. This has led to enormous problems with cheating and falsification. There is trade in work permits. Employers exploit individual workers because once they are here they are entirely in the hands of the employer. We must now do something about this. The investigative mission that I have given to the Special Investigator includes combating the kind of cheating, fiffles, human exploitation and trade in work permits that the Moderate Rules have led to. It will be incredibly nice to be able to do it. Boriana Åberg is now talking about highly qualified workers, i.e. those who may have higher education and central positions. In 2017, there was a change of practice on the part of the courts that meant that when it comes to minor errors that the person could not have influenced himself, one should have a much more generous, flexible attitude. Since then, the share of approval has also increased sharply. Does Boriana Åberg know what the approval rate for extension cases is for a university graduate? That's 99%. Ninety-nine per cent of all extensions to labour migration cases involving higher education graduates are granted. So we have 1% that is not granted for various reasons. There may have been irregularities. It may be that there has been an attempt to tighten the regulatory framework. It may also be something else. My conclusion is that if 99% of all cases are granted, how difficult can it be to comply with the rules? Are the regulations really so complex and difficult that employers and workers are unable to comply with them when 99% is granted? At least we now have a review of this too, and I have, as I said, a report on 1 February. Then we will see how the regulatory framework may need to be further developed for some of the individual cases that may exist in the last percentage. However, we should be aware that it is the magnitude of the problems that we are talking about: 99% of all cases are granted for the continuation of residence permits.
i-ec464d42452b062b-136	Mr President, I would like to When I mentioned the moratorium on my question, I did not mean, of course, that the Minister should intervene in individual cases, but that, in general, now that everything is out of order, we are allowing the specialists who are left here because of quarantine rules or something else to remain until February when our proposal is in place. I can say that, with regard to the High School Act, the government was very keen to allow people without asylum reasons, and who had been refused their asylum application many times, to stay. The legislation was adapted and the arguments turned around. If you want to, you can fix it, but obviously it is harder to be flexible when it comes to people who support themselves, have a job and education and contribute to the country. On one point, however, I will give the Minister the right to labour immigration for low-skilled professions such as cleaners, kitchen cleaners, car cleaners and whatever it is. One might wonder why employers do not find such labour in Sweden. Why is it necessary to recruit cleaners from Iraq or Afghanistan? I think I know why. That's because we have such high contributions in Sweden. In Sweden, the contributions are so generous that it is completely unprofitable for a person to take the step from making a living on grants to getting a low-paid job. Perhaps this is where the government should start: that everyone who is in Sweden should make sure to support themselves and not be burdened by society. This will eliminate the problem of labour migration for low-skilled occupations. The exploitation of workers also depends heavily on the poor or non-existent control of which we allow to enter the country. We have so many coordination numbers without any people behind them. The border controls that the Minister boasted in the previous debate are not working as intended. You should have had police officers who stopped the trains, for example, between Copenhagen and Lund and who would go through people's passports and ID documents, but the trains were only stopped without anyone coming and checking. What was done with these controls was not to stop people who do not have the right to reside in the country but to prevent people who would get to and from work in Copenhagen. So there are many other reasons for the problems pointed out by the Minister. If we return to the highly qualified, we are talking about 99% granting, says the Minister. I have a figure of 98%. The rest I'll take in the next post.
i-ec464d42452b062b-143	Mr President, I would like to Since the practice change took place in 2017, the share granted for extension has increased in trend, and the 99 percent are thus so far granted for this year. Previously, it was between 95 and 98% depending on the category we are talking about. Now, as I said, we are talking about those who have higher education skills, and that is 99%. And my question to Boriana Åberg was precisely this: how difficult can it be to comply with the rules if 99% is granted a residence permit? Then it can't be so horribly complicated after all. Boriana Åberg asks why Swedish companies do not get access to cleaners and personal assistants. I say they'll get it very well. But some companies don't want to, because they want to bring in someone from another country that they can then run with just any way, someone who works for 30 kroner an hour and lives in a basement. There are such rogue companies. Only the other day was an entrepreneur discovered here in Stockholm who had 21 illegal employees. We have now doubled the penalties for this type of employer. We have also increased police control facilities so that we can now carry out workplace inspections at such workplaces to really check who is working there. I think that is what this is about: there are some rogue employers who want labour that they can drive with just any way, and so they put them in these situations. Boriana Åberg says that it depends on our social security policies and that we have unemployment insurance funds in Sweden. But that's not true either. Sweden has the highest employment rate in the EU. There is no country in the EU where people work as much as in Sweden. If it had been true what Boriana Åberg says, that our social security systems mean that people do not want to work, yes, then we would not be the country where the highest employment rate is found throughout the European Union. No, Mr President, the explanation is different, namely precisely the fact that there are employers who are rogue and who want to use their advantage in this situation vis-à-vis the workforce and thus exploit it like this. We simply have to deal with this, and that is exactly why I set up an investigation to review the rules, despite strong opposition from many quarters. Not least the Moderates have fought for these rules with beaks and claws. After all, it was you who introduced a system based entirely on employers' interests once in the world. I hope, however, that this issue will also be reconsidered. We Social Democrats have been critical of this from the very beginning. When it comes to the so-called competence expulsions, we have more cases that are granted following the change of practice that took place. I am, of course, looking forward to the investigation due on 1 February. We will see if further action is needed, not least with regard to sanctions and who sanctions should be imposed when one has not lived up to the rules. Perhaps there are better ways of targeting employers who are sloppy and who do not care about this but exploit people instead of putting pressure on employees. It will be exciting to see what the investigation concludes in that part.
i-ec464d42452b062b-151	Mr President, I would like to I didn't mention the unemployment fund. For me, the unemployment fund is an insurance policy, not a grant. I hope the Minister sees it the same way. We have the highest employment gap between foreign born and domestic born in Sweden. This is solely due to the generous subsistence allowance, child benefit and housing allowance that make the step of taking a job as a cleaner a long one. To return to the qualified people who are expelled from Sweden, we can put it in a corona context. Now in Coronatids, many employers, including LTH, Lund University of Technology, have had problems with the fact that people who have been employed at the university have not been able to come to Sweden during the four-month period during which they have to report to their new workplace in order for the residence permit to not be withdrawn. I see the minister looks wondering. It was in mid-August that the problem was highlighted by Vice-Chancellor Viktor Öwall. Their work was hindered by people not being able to come to Sweden within the four-month period due to different quarantine rules, problems with air connections and so on. Can we not look more generously at these well-trained and competent workers, who are necessary for Sweden's development?
i-ec464d42452b062b-155	Mr President, I would like to I am happy to look at this individual example, but we cannot go in and change a law now in a quick turn to deal with an individual problem in that way. It must be accepted that if you are in a crisis situation, as the Corona crisis is, it will cause concern in a wide range of areas for all people. But I'd love to look a little more at what it's really about. Then, as you know, it is ultimately courts that decide and assess individual cases. Again: The image that people do not want to work in Sweden because we have social security is completely wrong. Then we would not have had the highest employment rate in the European Union. Boriana Åberg mentioned the employment gap. I am happy to examine the figures, but the picture I have is that foreign-born women have significantly higher employment rates in Sweden than they have in the vast majority of cases in the rest of the EU. This is because people are quite quick to take on the Swedish model that we have, namely the two-supporter household. In Sweden, the norm is that both work, and this also applies to immigrant groups. A few years ago, foreign-born women actually had a higher employment rate after five years in Sweden than domestic women in the rest of the EU. So they took on board the new country's standards quite quickly, which is a good thing. I am convinced that we need to work more on this, but do not say that the fact that we have unemployment insurance or other types of transfers determines the employment rate! Boriana Åberg mentioned child benefit. It will be exciting to see if the Moderates are going forward with a reduction in child benefit. We will see when their draft budget comes.
i-ec464d42452b062b-160	Mr President, I would like to Boriana Åberg has asked me whether I intend to take measures to expel criminals with dual citizenship from Sweden. She has also asked me whether I intend to initiate legislation to facilitate the confiscation of property from persons without legal income and legislation in order to significantly tighten the penalties for gang crime. According to the Swedish Police Authority, there are three different types of criminal networks in Sweden. It is loosely composed networks, criminal organisations and family and family-based networks. No matter what kind of network we're talking about, the government's message is clear. Crime in criminal networks is being suppressed with the full power of society. In Sweden, everyone should be safe, no matter where you live. With the 34-point programme, we implement the largest package against gang crime ever in Sweden. The programme includes actions in the short and long term. We give new tools to the authorities and tighten the penalties, but we also ensure that we get good and long-term crime prevention work. Clearly, making money is the main driving force behind crime in criminal networks. It is therefore essential that we have effective and effective tools to confiscate, or confiscate, criminal profits. Crime should not pay off. The rules for how crime profits can be taken from criminals are outdated and need to be more effective and clearer. The government has therefore set up an investigation aimed, among other things, at achieving precisely this. Step by step, we are also continuing to tighten up the criminal law framework, and our measures will hit the criminal networks hard. In the recent bill on penalties for possession and smuggling of illegal weapons and explosives, a general starting point is that the new penalties should hit criminal networks particularly hard. Investigations are under way on increased penalties for, among other things, crimes related to criminal settlements, drug sales and abuse of justice and for those involving young people in crime. In addition, recent proposals for the abolition of penalty rebates for 18- to 20-year-olds for crimes with a minimum sentence of one year's imprisonment have been referred to. If the proposal is implemented, it will be sentenced to longer and more prison sentences for such crime. When a foreigner is guilty of serious or repeated crime in Sweden, it must be possible to decide on expulsion. The government has therefore set up an investigation to make suggestions on how to achieve stricter rules for expulsion due to crime. With stricter rules, the focus is on more people being expelled than today. However, a Swedish citizen cannot be expelled, and this also applies to persons who have dual citizenship. However, there is already an examination of honest ways of life in all applications for Swedish citizenship. And an investigation that the government set up last year analyses, among other things, the ability to make it more difficult for young people who are severely criminally burdened to become Swedish citizens. I and the government are working widely against crime in criminal networks, and we have no plans to slow down.
i-ec464d42452b062b-169	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The crime of criminal networks is being suppressed with the full power of society. In Sweden, everyone should be safe, no matter where you live. That's what the minister said. Never before has there been such a huge difference between ambition and reality. But ambition is a positive thing. Ambition suggests action. In the case of the Minister and the Government, it is more about paralysis and the inability to solve acute problems. It is like all the force has been spent on rhetoric and there has been nothing left to do. Similar statements have been repeated by the Minister for years. We are about to crack organised crime, said the Minister in September 2017. We're going to crack the gangs, they were told in June 2018. But, Mr President, the reality outside Rosenbad and the Parliament House shows something quite different. Never before has serious organized crime had such a firm grip on our society. It's gang killings, shootings, settlements where innocent children are murdered, open drug trafficking and roadblocks set up by criminal clans controlling entire neighborhoods. The list can be made long. Never have so many people been so insecure in Sweden. Never have we ever heard our police management say as Deputy Chief of Police Mats Löfving said: They have come to Sweden with the sole purpose of organising and systematizing crime. They're working on creating power. They have a great capacity for violence. They want to make money. ..................................................... In his reply, the Minister bundles together the different types of criminal networks, but precisely clan-based crime is special. It requires special knowledge and special measures. The development of clan crime has gone hand in hand with large migration and non-existent integration. It's a systemic threat. It has infiltrated government, politics and business. Clan crime has a very strong structure, where trust and relations are already in the family. The clans create parallel societies with their own justice and laws. They also have a great deal of violent capital that makes no one dare to testify against them. Mr President, I would like to In Germany there is a special clan unit in the police. A special department of the Public Prosecutor's Office has also been set up to confiscate criminal assets. Can the government follow Germany's example directly without any lengthy investigations, show momentum and knock away clan-based crime? It won't happen right away. But one can at least show good intentions and use well-proven and effective measures from our neighbouring country.
i-ec464d42452b062b-177	Mr President, I would like to I think everyone agrees that gang crime is one of our major problems. It's not something that happened overnight. It started rooting in Sweden maybe 20–25 years ago, not least in our common neighborhoods in Skåne with the motorcycle gangs that came to Sweden from Denmark – Hells Angels and Bandidos – in the early 1990s. But then this has been built on over time with other types of more loosely assembled networks and then also the genealogical networks. My view is that the efforts we are now making should have been made by Sweden perhaps 20 years ago. Then we'd suffocate this in its infancy. But we didn't do it then. Then we'll have to do it now. It will thus take a little longer, cost more money and be more difficult. But I'm convinced it's possible. But you should be clear that it is not done at a glance but that it is something that you have to work with in both the short and the long term. Let's do that now. We are training three times as many police officers as we did when we took office. We now have more police officers in Sweden than ever before. We're about to reach the target of 10,000 more police officers by 2024. We are expanding the toolbox with, among other things, tougher penalties for the crimes that the gang criminals most commit. The penalty measurement is probably the hardest ever, at least in modern times. I've also pointed to camera surveillance. We now have 450 surveillance cameras in crime-prone locations. We are also developing uniform cameras for police officers in external service. But we are also focusing on preventive measures, not least social measures. If this is to be achieved in the long term, it is necessary to remove the most criminal individuals from the streets while stopping recruitment to the criminal gangs. This is very much the case with social measures aimed at children and young people who may be at risk of becoming delinquency. Boriana Åberg highlights the issue of spending money. There we all agree. It is even the case that during the last parliamentary term we extended the possibility of forfeiting assets for criminals. These rules are now being used much more effectively than in the past. We have an ongoing review that will take another step and which I will report. But Boriana Åberg does not have to go to Germany to see this. It's enough for her to go to Helsingborg. There was a coordinated effort just a few weeks ago in Helsingborg with the various authorities that we are talking about – municipal authorities, customs and the police – when they went straight to the criminals at the addresses where they usually reside to collect various debts and charges. In just three days, over $1 million was seized in such a joint effort. The same was true of Operation Rimfrost, which was a coordinated police operation against the gang criminals. They also used the new rules and went harder on the money that the gang criminals have earned. During Operation Rimfrost, over $10 million in cash could be seized, over 30 cars, where three of them were worth over $2 million, and nearly 40 watches, where only one watch was actually worth over $1 million. It is in this way that Swedish authorities work, i.e. that you go on the assets that the gang criminals have – cars, watches, cash and other things. The ongoing review will lead to further more effective measures in that part. I think we're in complete agreement there. But the Moderates are obliged to answer that they have no policy to prevent crime and stop recruitment to the gangs. There you are, in fact, completely empty of proposals.
i-ec464d42452b062b-189	Mr President, I would like to I have to tell the Minister right about what he said about us starting 20 years ago. Per Brinkemo wrote the book Between clan and state. When the book came, both social services and the police said: Wow, it's a good book, but you've written it 20 years too late. The minister wisely reasoned on the purpose of crime, making money, and on the importance of confiscating the profits from crime. Already a year ago, the Minister tweeted: to break the gangs, we must also go on their sources of funding. The Minister points to some positive examples. However, there is still a lack of specific legislation to make this confiscation much more effective. That is why I am pointing to examples from other countries – Ireland, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom – which have just such a special piece of legislation that is welcome to look at. Along with the positive examples, there are unfortunately negative ones. Despite successful cooperation between the police and the Swedish Tax Agency on criminals who live luxury lives but have no income, the Swedish Tax Agency has stopped investigating criminals. Then it is a question of taxation and taxation. The reason for this is new guidelines laid down in a document called Method Support for in-depth desk investigations of natural persons regarding unaccounted income. Now it is the Swedish Tax Agency's investigator who has to prove that the income does not come from work or the like. The new approach means that if heavy criminals or terrorist suspects remain silent, nothing will happen. IRS control will be ineffective. One of the Swedish Tax Agency's investigators wrote after this methodological directive came: The position of the Legal Department will mean that the crime profits will be reinvested in drugs, weapons and more with high costs for society as a result. I would like the Minister to comment on this. Is it right for the authorities to make new interpretations that run counter to the legislator's intentions? I am pleased that the Minister mentioned both Helsingborg and Operation Rimfrost. My next example comes from Helsingborg. Recently, the Customs Administration's Legal Department found that Customs in Helsingborg had made a mistake by assisting the police with drug search dogs and staff at the search warrant during Operation Rimfrost, due to outdated legislation. What does the Minister intend to do about this? When both the parliament and the government think that our authorities should cooperate and do their best to combat crime, how is it possible to say that the police must not contribute with a drug search dog? There is a gap between the Police Act and the Smuggling Act, where there are provisions on the cases in which customs can assist the police. It is very serious, and I very much hope that the Minister will get to the bottom of this story and resolve this problem. In fact, it has completely unimaginable consequences if customs are to reject the request for assistance from the police.
i-ec464d42452b062b-200	Mr President, I would like to So, when it comes first to confiscation legislation, since 2016 we have new rules in place. We extended the use of the so-called extended confiscation, as it were. This means that, on more occasions than in the past, criminal assets can be seized, and I would say that it has been a very effective instrument. This enables us to make, among other things, the large seizures I have reported. However, we are not satisfied with this, but we are prepared to take further steps. In the 34-point programme, we pointed out a further revision of the confiscation rules, and the investigation we then set out to present our report next year. Of course, we look forward to being able to bring forward new legislation so that we can have this resolved during this parliamentary term. Then it is a question of increasing the scope further so that we make it even easier, let me say, for the authorities to seize these assets. I think that is often where it really hurts. When the authorities show up and take off the criminal gangs their fine cars, watches, gold chains and cash, I think it has a tangible effect. Then Boriana Åberg takes up two points concerning the Swedish Tax Agency and customs, and I am happy to take the two examples with me, even though none of the authorities are mine. As far as the Swedish Tax Agency is concerned, I do not think that the Minister for Finance will hesitate one second to steer the business in such a way that it will be easier to cooperate with other authorities and also to assist other authorities in this way. I and Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg met with the Director General of the Swedish Tax Agency only last week to examine, among other things, the population register issue, which is at the Swedish Tax Agency. We also have a close dialogue with other authorities, even if they are outside our departments. Both in relation to the Tax Agency and in relation to the customs issue that was raised, I promise to try to see what the government as a whole can do to solve the possible knots. There is no reason for us to make it difficult for the authorities in any way; on the contrary, we want to make it more effective.
i-ec464d42452b062b-204	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for the positive answer, at least in the last part. I had another question about expulsion. The Minister answers quite rightly that we cannot expel Swedish citizens, but we could change the law so that we make a better control of who becomes a citizen. As it is now, you don't have to be self-sufficient, you don't have to know a word of Swedish and you don't have to be very honest in your life. There are many examples that criminal syndicates have bribed officials at the Immigrant Agency and also threatened employees there to obtain Swedish citizenship. I saw that the minister looked at me inquiringly, but this is described in the book Swedish Mafia; the minister can borrow it from me if he has not read it. It was also one of the most read books in Swedish institutions some time ago. It is therefore possible to have better controls, and it is also possible to examine how to withdraw the nationality of those who have dual citizenship and commit crimes after crimes without being expelled. This also applies to enforcement obstacles or to someone pointing out that they have relationships at home – it is obvious that a criminal who is in prison and has committed serious crimes is not an asset to his family. These people abuse both wives and children. I know what I'm talking about; I've had clients in social services. So, please take a crack at it! Don't just say it can't be done. Change the law!
i-ec464d42452b062b-209	Mr President, I would like to If it is Lasse Wierup's book Swedish Mafia to which Boriana Åberg refers, I can say that I read it when it came. He's also come up with a couple of sequels after that. So I don't need to borrow it because I already have it. With regard to the substance of the matter, that is to say, the expulsions, it is so – as I said in the interpellation response – that we are now reviewing the rules on citizenship. Among other things, it is a question of introducing a language requirement for Swedish citizenship, and that report will come sometime next year. That is one of the things that exists in the January agreement and that we will proceed with. However, there is also another issue in this investigation, namely that in some cases – especially for young people – it is sufficient to register for Swedish citizenship. You do not therefore need to apply for Swedish citizenship. This means that even people who can be convicted of serious crimes and be involved in criminal activities with current rules can actually quite easily get a Swedish citizenship. Those rules also need to be tightened up, and that is, as I said, part of the review. Once this comes to Parliament, I am convinced that it will be able to go through. Finally, in my view, it is simply a matter of continuing with the reinforcements we have made – with police, punitive and camera surveillance – but at the same time also making efforts to break the new recruits to the criminal gangs. In this respect, we must work both in the short and long term to try to improve the situation and to bring this kind of crime into order.
i-ec464d42452b062b-213	Mr President, I would like to John Widegren has asked me about accessibility for companies and residents in the area around Skenäsleden over Bråviken. Good accessibility throughout Sweden is necessary for it to be possible to live, live and work in all parts of the country. Sweden should stay together. Ferry traffic is an important part of the road infrastructure. The government is now investing heavily in infrastructure – over SEK 164 billion is invested in road maintenance. Now in the autumn budget, the government has also proposed increases in road maintenance by a total of SEK 1.5 billion during the period 2021 – 2023. This creates the conditions for the operation and maintenance of the state road network, including the ferries. It is the Finnish Transport Agency that has the Government's mission to plan, prioritise and implement measures. I assume that the Trafikverket takes the matter seriously and works for a reliable connection across Bråviken.
i-ec464d42452b062b-216	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Infrastructure. Of course, I am well aware that the matter is handled by the Swedish Transport Administration and that it is handled regionally, but when things do not work as they should in the country, we need to lift them a snap – up to the Swedish Parliament – and that is exactly what I have done now. For it is not a call I have received, and it is not two; there are many, both by telephone and by email. The message has been that it does not work. The summer that has passed was also not the first summer that it did not work. Mr President, I would like to This is absolutely an infrastructure issue, but I think it is an issue that has many more roots than just infrastructure. The issue also lands in the city – the country perspective. It lands in the security perspective, it lands in the industrial policy perspective and it lands in the environmental and climate perspective. When it comes to city – the country perspective, I think that people in rural areas unfortunately often feel a little forgotten nowadays. When a problem like this arises in rural areas, you really feel forgotten. If the same thing had happened in one urban area, the situation would have been quite different, and the problem would probably have been resolved in a shorter time. Above all, it had not been allowed to be a problem for several years. There is a security perspective, Mr President, because people do not know how to transport or get to their jobs. They do not know what will happen with their commuting or their entrepreneurship. They don't know which times or how far to go. There is a policy perspective – at this point in time for farmers. Sometimes farmers may depend on this because they have land on both sides of the strait. It causes enormous problems in their nutrition. This causes profitability problems when someone needs to take the detour around the whole of Bråviken instead of going straight across. These are farmers who are already very hard hit by profitability problems. There is also an environmental and climate policy perspective here. Statistics from September 2018 showed that approximately 500 cars per day use this route. These are 500 cars that, if they can't use the ferry, need to transport 50 miles extra. That means 25 000 kilometres of extra mile a day. That's a lot. Feel that number — 15,000 miles [25,000 km]! It's pretty much for this ferry when it doesn't work. That is why I believe, Mr President, that such an issue lands in so much more. It lands mainly in the city – the country perspective. That is why I think it is very important to be able to debate the issue with an infrastructure minister who, I know, also defends the country perspective and who does not look blindly at the city perspective. That is why I would simply like to hear the Minister problematize a little about the issues that I have just raised. This is a ferry, but we have many ferries like this in Sweden. In some places there may not even be an alternative with car traffic and taking a detour, but you only have this ferry. This is something that we must make work in the future. There must not be problems in the summer after the summer.
i-ec464d42452b062b-225	Mr President, I would like to Like John Widegren, I am very much concerned that Sweden should stick together between town and country. That is one of the reasons why we are now making an extra effort in the budget with earmarked resources for road maintenance in rural areas – this is needed. I remember when we developed the national plan, which reported the SEK 164 billion for road maintenance. Then it was a real extension. But there is still – and this is important to remember – a risk that at the end of the planning period we may have a deterioration of the Swedish road network. This is why we, from the government's side, have chosen to repeatedly inject resources – the so-called pothole money – into the budgets to secure the road standard. In this we also include the ferries. The reason why it is particularly important when we look at the ferries in the future – and here I think John Widegren argues well – is that this is not only done from an accessibility and security perspective, but there is also a clear climate aspect. We have the ambition of becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country. Therefore, a programme is now under way where the ferries are replaced and where the operation is electrified wherever possible. The fact that the state takes the lead in managing the transition is one way of securing the state infrastructure. The more people who support resources to strengthen the infrastructure, the better. There needs to be equal bets and good bets throughout the country. I myself come from Kosta, which is a society with 800 inhabitants, and know very well the importance of good quality on the roads. But I also know what it's like when it doesn't work, and so I can very well understand the frustration and anger that exists in people when it doesn't work with the ferry connection. Just as John Widegren says, it is of course even worse in places where there is no alternative connection. This has happened to us too, and that is why the Swedish Transport Administration has rather strict rules regarding the fact that there must not be many days of intermission before acting and before being prepared to take responsibility for ensuring secure relations. I know that there is a dialogue between the municipality and Trafikverket, and assume that Trafikverket is working hard to ensure that there is once again a secure connection without interruption.
i-ec464d42452b062b-231	Mr President, I would like to Well reasoned, Minister of Infrastructure! Another reason why I chose to raise this issue is that the signals from Trafikverket have been a little too weak, or too bad. I received signals from local politicians in Norrköping and also from the region in Östergötland that they have tried to raise the problem with Trafikverket, but Trafikverket refers to not wanting digital meetings. This is a little ridiculous in a question like this. These contacts were made in the middle of the summer, and the ferry stood still a lot this summer. Me and the Minister argue a little about how much, but it has stood still a lot. When you contact the relevant authority and perhaps get casual answers, it is even more important that we raise the issue to a higher plane. We're not supposed to control the authorities, but we need to understand that sometimes communication works badly. When it does, people suffer. I've been getting signals that it's been standing still for two weeks this summer. This is two weeks in the middle of the harvest period and two weeks when there is most pressure on tourism in these areas. Last summer we had, as I said, great standstills on this ferry. How are we going to move on from this? This is an issue that we need to raise, understand and actually address. It is a good thing to spend money, as the Minister says, so that there is money. But can there be any system malfunction somewhere when we see the problem repeated over and over again? Perhaps the authorities do not think this is so important? And if so, how do we get the signal down from the highest level that it is important, so that people do not have to walk around and be worried that this problem will recur?
i-ec464d42452b062b-236	Mr President, I would like to I have not been given the impression that the Finnish Transport Administration would in any way reduce this priority. My experience with Trafikverket is that when there are disturbances in traffic, you quickly arrive and act and find solutions. What it was like in this particular case, in the middle of the summer, I do not know, but the starting point is, of course, that the Swedish Transport Administration has the task of ensuring that we have a well-functioning infrastructure and that the traffic can flow. I believe that, in the long term, the challenge for the state ferry companies we have for this type of ferry service will be to cope with the exchange to modern ferries. I believe that the average age of the ferries is a bit over 30 years, so here is a mission to create space to gradually replace them – not only for climate reasons, which we were talking about, but also for reasons of operational safety. This mission has the Swedish Transport Administration. We have made the resources available, and there is also a clear regulatory framework. I assume, once again, that the Finnish Transport Administration will now assume its responsibilities and ensure that we have secure relations and that we act quickly for that to happen.
i-ec464d42452b062b-239	Mr President, I would like to We had a longer stop during the summer. I see in the paper that the ferry on 19 July was cancelled due to technical errors. In July there was also a propeller breakdown. In the autumn – in September – a technical error occurred. I know that the ferry has at some point been cancelled because of fog. There may be many reasons why a ferry is standing still, and it may well be accepted that a ferry is standing still some day because there are problems. But it must not happen repeatedly, as has happened in this case. What about the capacity of exchange ferries or loan ferries? Do you have any capacity in Sweden today to move ferries around to solve the problems when they arise during such an important time as it was during the summer? I'd like to know. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is good that the Minister sees the seriousness of this and takes the issue and takes it forward. The Minister said in his reply that he assumes that the Finnish Transport Administration takes the matter seriously, and I assume that the Minister too takes the matter seriously.
i-ec464d42452b062b-243	Mr President, I would like to I would just like to make one point. If it is the case that the ferry is stationary due to weather, we must have respect for it. The safety of personnel and maritime safety must always come first. The starting point is that it must never be compromised if there is storm or fog. I also know that this understanding exists with the residents. Maritime safety must always come first, both for staff and for travellers. Then there are the conditions to find spare ferries, even if one should have respect for the fact that it can be complicated. But again: it is in the work of the Finnish Transport Administration, and they also take this seriously, of course. Just as I now assume my responsibility by providing resources and paying attention to this, I assume that John Widegren and the Moderates are also prepared to ensure that the resources are available for state infrastructure. When I took office as Minister of Infrastructure and drew up a national plan, we had to add 100 billion more than the moderate-led government had done before, because it had not chosen to prioritise infrastructure. I hope that it is understood that Sweden needs a good infrastructure, both in the city and – not least – in the countryside, so that everyone in the country can feel safe with good and climate-smart connections.
i-DjsQLjGLj7srAUV7edhCPu	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan, Minister Ardalan Shekarabi, Minister Jennie Nilsson and Minister Matilda Ernkrans. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-ec464d42452b062b-247	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Matilda Ernkrans. This year we will all remember as the year when the pandemic took out the whole world. But there are also many of us who will remember the breakdowns of this year's university test. Of course, this spring's test session was cancelled, something that we all understand. But the trips around the autumn's implementation cannot be described as anything but chaos. We now have over 100 000 unemployed young people. This is a sharp increase, which makes the implementation – of course, corona-proof – of the university test, which can give young people a chance to enter their dream education or at least some education at the university, even more important. Amazingly many municipalities and hotel chains have contacted and offered free facilities to get a university test this autumn. I wonder how hard it can be. My question to Matilda Ernkrans is: Does the Government consider that she has done everything in her power, for example to answer the UHR memo of 19 May, in order to get a university test?
i-ec464d42452b062b-253	Madam President, I would like I thank Kristina Axén Olin for the question. I have noted the broad commitment here in the Swedish Parliament for a infection-proof university test. I can assure the Swedish Parliament and everyone else who listens to this that the government shares this commitment. I and the department have devoted an enormous amount of our time to gradually work on trying to get an infection-proof university test in place during the autumn. We've taken a series of government decisions. The government has made decisions where it has been possible to make decisions. Surely it is now a good thing that there is a test that can be carried out in the autumn – with the small piece of wood that we are still in a pandemic and that people's lives and health will always come first.
i-ec464d42452b062b-255	Madam President, I would like Government! I could read a long list, but I would unfortunately exceed the speaking time. On 24 April, the UHR has its meeting with the higher education institutions on the conditions for conducting the autumn test. On May 19, they write a memo requesting what they need to complete the test and send it to Matilda Ernkrans and the Ministry of Education. On 30 June, the Government will give notice to the UHR to proceed, but with a limitation on who should write. On 9 July, the government changed its mind and stated that it could not be implemented. Has Ernkrans done everything in her power?
i-ec464d42452b062b-258	Madam President, I would like There has been an enormous amount of work done. I have made sure that everyone is really doing everything they can to ensure that an infection-proof university test can be carried out. We should remember that until mid-June we did not even know if we would have any students at our universities. It may be good to remember that we are still in a pandemic. But we will actually be able to carry out an infection-proof university test this autumn. Hopefully it will take place on 25 October.
i-ec464d42452b062b-259	I would urge Members to remember that we should have a distance between each other in this House. This applies when we have votes, and that applies, of course, also during Question Time. I would also like to remind you that we have hand alcohol on the speaker's seats and elsewhere. In this way, we will ensure that we do not contribute to the spread of infection here.
i-ec464d42452b062b-261	Madam President, I would like In order for law enforcement to deliver the results that citizens expect, strengthening certain parts of the judiciary is not enough. In order to avoid bottlenecks, all parts need to be strengthened. More police officers need to be complemented by more prosecutors and better conditions for courts to deal with more criminal cases. The Swedish Prosecution Authority has asked for a budget increase of 49 million to deal with the expected increase in cases, and the Swedish Courts have asked for a budget increase of 120 million. All of this is rejected by the government. Now there is a risk that prosecutors will be alerted. Instead, the government chooses to spend 325 million on a bicycle venture and 52 billion on aid to other countries. If the government is serious about all these promises to crush gang crime, more money needs to be spent. Does Ibrahim Baylan see any problems with the sub-financing of the Swedish Prosecution Authority and the Swedish Courts when gang crime skyrockets, or does the government make a different assessment of what resources are necessary to manage the goal increases?
i-ec464d42452b062b-265	Madam President, I would like Combating crime, securing human life and securing the security of our law-abiding citizens is one of the most important tasks of the government. I would also say that this is one of the most important tasks of this Parliament. It is against this background that we have tightened the penalties and made sure that the laws are strict for those who commit crimes. It is also against this background that we have strengthened resources for the entire judiciary. This applies to the police, and it also applies to the Prosecutor's Office, which was the subject of this question. Since 2014, we have increased resources to the Swedish Prosecution Authority by SEK 392 million, or nearly 30 per cent. The Prosecution Authority expects that they will have a large surplus this year of nearly 30 million, and they expect a surplus next year as well. Should it turn out, Madam President, that additional resources are needed for all parts of the judiciary to fight crime, the government will not hesitate to provide those resources.
i-ec464d42452b062b-269	Madam President, I would like The truth is that the savings that the Prosecution Authority and Ibrahim Baylan are talking about have meant that routine prosecutors have stopped and been replaced by aspirants. But once wage increases, increases in local rents and so on have been paid, there will be no money left. Today we have a crisis in society, with widespread gang crime, unsolved crimes, overcrowded prisons and so on. It goes without saying that an investment in the police requires an investment in the whole chain of justice.
i-ec464d42452b062b-271	Madam President, I would like That's it. That is why we are strengthening all parts of the legal chain. We do so through increased resources, but also through stricter penalties. I would add that we also need to tighten up and strengthen preventive measures. It's not enough to put the bad guys away and make sure that those who devote their lives to crime and violate other people – sometimes grossly, sometimes as murderers, sometimes as rapists, etc. – go to jail. We also need to ensure that the supply does not continue.
i-ec464d42452b062b-274	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Rural Affairs Jennie Nilsson. It is a small issue, but it is quite important for the agricultural industry. It concerns slaughterhouse fees. Today's system affects the slaughterhouse industry and especially small slaughterhouses. If I take Gotland as an example, there is a very small slaughterhouse with three species of animals. This makes it a very expensive system to manage. For Gotland, the forthcoming increase, which is proposed for Gotland, affects 3 million people directly towards primary production. It will be an extremely effective brake on all new production on Gotland. That's how it is around the country.
i-S6nRazF5i765f3otQ6t2Z8	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Thomsson, for the question! It is difficult to answer the question in very detail in one minute. I can see that we have understood the question, of course. The reason for the change now being made is that we are implementing EU legislation in this area. On the other hand, for a long time we have been making money so that we subsidise about half of the slaughterhouse fees via the tax bill. We will continue to do so with this year's budget. The change in design, however, means that the outcome is different. Some become winners, some become losers. The aim of the design is to promote operational efficiency. Here we may also have to work with other tools to achieve and enable the small slaughterhouses in particular to be able to be part of doing this. This may, for example, involve investment aid via CAP and other things.
i-ec464d42452b062b-281	Madam President, I would like I know the investigation is ongoing. What it leads to, we do not yet know. The Center Party has long wanted us to go to the EU minimum level in this part. It is one of the few concrete measures we can take to strengthen the food strategy and Swedish competitiveness at the primary level in agriculture. I hope the Minister can go that way.
i-B2ELDSvhYsdU8dSas18DWA	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the supplementary question, Lars Thomsson! It is important that we follow these questions very closely but also that we work with the entire spectrum. We need to work on profitability issues in general when it comes to the whole of primary production. Having effective and effective tools and regulations is part of it. I take note of this point. It's not unknown to me or anyone else.
i-ec464d42452b062b-284	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. The bourgeois government introduced a distant parentheses into health insurance. It was politicians and not doctors who insured people. The Left Party and the Social Democrats removed the lower parentheses from health insurance. What has happened now is that, in practice, we have a new parenthesis. Today, after 180 days, a very large number of people are insured and deprived of their sickness benefit. Many Swedes today have persistent and severe symptoms from covid-19. Even now, we see that Försäkringskassan assures those people and wants them to go back into working life. Does the Minister think it reasonable for people with severe covid symptoms to go back to their workplaces and work?
i-ec464d42452b062b-289	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Nooshi Dadgostar, for the important question! The regulatory framework for health insurance from the 180th day of illness is problematic. The legal framework does not provide the protection to the insured who they deserve. This means that many people, a relatively large proportion of the insured, lose their sickness benefit on the 180th day of illness. The government has paid attention to this. We have suggestions on our table from the investigation into safer health insurance on how the regulatory framework can be changed. The government is working on those proposals. In the meantime, we have commissioned the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to strengthen the work of investigating decisions and offering rehabilitation to people for the first 179 days so that people receive the rehabilitation and support they are entitled to. We intend, of course, to continue working on the amendments that are on the table with the government. There is also a need for regulatory changes here.
i-ec464d42452b062b-294	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that the government has listened to the Left Party on this issue and will come forward with a change to the rule at 180 days. My question to the Minister is: When will this bill be put on the table of Parliament? It's very urgent. Many people get in touch – the Minister knows that too – and ask: When is there going to be a change in what is called the rehabilitation chain and all these insurances that come in at day 180?
i-ec464d42452b062b-296	Madam President, I would like We're working on the question. In the meantime, we have ensured that we have special derogations in view of the Corona situation. This means that through temporary changes in the regulations in the short term, we have given more room for manoeuvre to Försäkringskassan to decide that people can keep their sickness benefit pending rehabilitation and care. This is particularly relevant as a result of the care debt that has been incurred as a result of the Corona.
i-ec464d42452b062b-297	Madam President, I would like Swedish healthcare has world class, but it is not equal. It changes depending on who I am--we have socio-economic differences-- and that depends on where I live. In practice, we have 21 different healthcare systems where there can be very different opportunities. If I need a certain medicine that is approved by the Medical Products Agency and TLV and my doctor thinks it should be suitable for me, it can still be no because my region has decided that it is not allowed here, perhaps for economic reasons. The same applies to pneumococcal vaccines. This is made possible in half of the regions. The other half won't get it. It's not equal. The view of the Christian Democrats is therefore that the state should have primary responsibility for health care. The question is whether, even after this pandemic, the government has realised that this should be the case.
i-ec464d42452b062b-301	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Ankarberg Johansson, for an important question! After this pandemic, and at all when dealing with the Swedish health care system, I think most people have exactly the image that Acko Ankarberg Johansson expressed. There is great gratitude that we have access to many of the world's best medical care. That doesn't mean it doesn't have its flaws. One of these shortcomings is that there may be differences in this. Another is that there may be a lack of accessibility for those who feel a need to be in contact with the healthcare system. Madam President, I would like It is against this background that the government has strengthened the governance of the common health care system but above all strengthened resources both during the covid-19 crisis and in general. We need to strengthen our common health care and ensure that those who make heroic efforts there also have good conditions throughout the country.
i-ec464d42452b062b-305	Madam President, I would like It wasn't really the answer to my question whether or not the state should have primary responsibility. Yet the government has given a little hint of it. You can look at Category 9 in the budget proposal on p. 36. I understand that the government doesn't have it in front of it, but I do. We have an announcement from 2017 that we will review the division of responsibilities. The government now writes that it needs to be further analysed in the light of the new situations and needs arising from covid – 19. It has become clear that if we cannot move resources and medicines where the state decides, it will be unsustainable.
i-ec464d42452b062b-308	Madam President, I would like You don't have time to go through everything in a minute. It is clear that strengthening resources, increased governance and increased accessibility through both governance and resources are some steps along the way. But I also think you should stop and think. If one believes in an alexander hem by nationalizing everything, one should also look at the state authorities in our country. It's not always equal and it's differences there either. However, I believe that we fully agree on the importance of resources and governance and on ensuring that healthcare for all is guaranteed on an equal footing.
i-ec464d42452b062b-310	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Matilda Ernkrans. There are many of us who have followed the discussions that have been in the wake of the program series of the Educational Radio Written Package. It shows that almost half of university teachers perceive that students are bad at expressing themselves in writing. This is just one in a series of several alarms on the issue that have come in recent years. Being able to express oneself precisely in writing is fundamental in many professions. It may be about calling in and analysing a problem and arguing for a solution. This is, of course, an issue that spans the whole field of education, from preschool through youth school to higher education. My question to the Government is: What does the Government see specifically should and can be done in the context of higher education?
i-ec464d42452b062b-314	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Nilsson, for the question. That is a very urgent question. As the honourable Member himself identifies, this is indeed something that spans the whole field of education. I would like to say that some of the measures taken by the government, which we continue to strengthen, relate to the efforts that we can make early in the education chain. Not least, we can already identify at preschool level those children who need extra support and help in terms of reading and writing comprehension and hold on to this through the education system. It is clear that these are issues that we need to consider also in higher education. That is, of course, what I have to take with me in the work for which I am responsible.
i-ec464d42452b062b-317	Madam President, I would like On the one hand, I can appreciate the fact that the Government does not come here and now with concrete proposals which may later be difficult to implement. I fully agree that the foundation is very much laid in precisely the youth school. Nevertheless, I wonder whether the Government could identify any areas or reforms that might eventually be useful to think about in higher education.
i-ec464d42452b062b-319	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say to Maria Nilsson that I am happy to talk about further efforts in this area. It is important and urgent. Nevertheless, I believe that we have identified some efforts in the cooperation we have in the middle of Swedish politics. We have said together that we will reform teacher education to strengthen the relationship between theory and practice, to develop methodology and so on. I think these may be important elements for addressing the issue. A safe pension
i-ec464d42452b062b-322	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. A lot of people think about what happens when you retire. One of our most important issues is precisely this. People wonder: What will happen when I stop working? How are my parents going to pay the rent or put a golden edge on life? How am I supposed to have a good life myself? Many with me, both future pensioners and today's pensioners, are concerned and may not be fully aware of what will happen. My question to the government and to Ardalan Shekarabi is therefore: How does the government work to ensure that those who have worked and worked hard in a long working life feel confident and get a proper pension?
i-ec464d42452b062b-325	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Vepsä, for the question. The first step is to recognise that pensions are too low for many groups in our society. There are also many groups that have worked and worked hard in Sweden for many years but who have had low wages and who currently have a low pension. It's about nurses, nannys and bus drivers. There are many groups that have been applauded in recent months by all of us. But they have a low pension. Now there's a pension increase. It is a good message in the budget that the pension supplement will be implemented next year and that pensions will be increased, especially for these groups – those who have worked and worked for a full career. However, we must continue to work on this issue, and that is why the Pensions Group intends to step up work on how we can increase contributions to the pension system so that we can continue to raise the pensions of those who work in an entire working life. This is an important issue. In parallel, we have also increased the guarantee pension. The basic level of the pension system was raised on 1 January. These are important steps for us to get pensions that you can be safe with.
i-ec464d42452b062b-329	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Ardalan Shekarabi lines up a lot of the professions that have the most vulnerable and heaviest jobs in our society. We know that many people are unable to work their way through an entire working life. How do the Minister and the government think about the future? How should we ensure that we create situations and a working life that makes you able to do so?
i-ec464d42452b062b-331	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Mattias Vepsä! The working environment must be improved. Not least, the conditions for those working in public activities need to be improved. It is painful to be reminded that, in the last parliamentary term, the government submitted a proposal to this House that it would be mandatory to impose requirements on occupational pensions and insurance in all the activities financed by our tax funds and that this proposal fell to Parliament. I hope that the insights that have been raised during the Corona cause all parties to rethink and think correctly.
i-ec464d42452b062b-335	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Mr Ernkrans a question. The issue is animal testing in research. 96% of mammals' biomass in the world is made up of humans and our domestic animals. Only 4% of mammals are wild animals. This comes from a scientific report that shows that we need to reconsider our relationship with animals. This applies in many areas: in agriculture, in what we eat but also in research. Animal experiments in research are important, but animal experiments are both time- and cost-intensive. Through alternative, animal-free methods, we can – in addition to the ethical – save both time and money in the research budget. We're talking about modern methods, computer models, artificial materials that resemble human tissue or what's called organs on chips. However, such practices so far exist only to a small extent.
i-ec464d42452b062b-339	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mats Berglund, for the question! Sweden is known for its extremely strong animal welfare. We will continue to have that and work intensively on it. But it is clear that we should also continue to work on alternatives to animal testing based on this background. We work on the basis of what is called the 3R principle, i.e. r eplace, r euse and r efine. The Swedish Research Council finances research on alternative methods. It is important; it is a research that should continue and that we need. Then the government also has Sweden's 3R centre, where researchers, industry and animal welfare work together. Here the government has announced in the budget that we will continue to develop this. We increase the grant by SEK 15 million for 2021 until 2023, and that is good.
i-ec464d42452b062b-342	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have read the budget proposal and I am very pleased that the 3R Centre at the Swedish Board of Agriculture remains and receives funding. It has an important and, above all, coordinating role. I would also like to mention the forthcoming research bill. How can we ensure that there is scope and resources for research to both develop and use new methods over the next four years, the time a research policy proposal usually covers?
i-ec464d42452b062b-344	Madam President, I would like I know that the Green Party is very committed to the issue of alternatives to animal testing and has been so for many years. I also think that we have successfully pushed these issues together in the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government. We have to keep doing it. We'll see about that. We are now at the end of the drafting of the research policy proposal. Nevertheless, it is gratifying that we can present a really decent research budget. Overall, we will invest 13.6 billion in Swedish research over the next four years, so it is a good foundation.
i-ec464d42452b062b-347	Madam President, I would like Today, we can read on the Swedish Hunting website:.For 28 years Tord Englund has had sheep. But it won't be the 29th. On five occasions in less than a year wolf has attacked and killed sheep on the farm. Now he's shutting down business. ..................................................... This is becoming more and more common, Madam President, and it is really beginning to go out on Swedish food production. I think that the government must now be clear in a completely different way: should we keep agriculture and livestock farming in the broken area where the wolf actually makes its ravages? Or is it a plain farm we are asking for? In that case, I think you should say it. And when does the Government intend to take on predatory management versus food production? It is becoming urgent.
i-ec464d42452b062b-350	Madam President, I would like I can only say that the government has taken on predatory management. We have worked both during the last term of office and during it to ensure good game management for all game, as well as the wolf. However, the wolf falls under an EU directive, the Species and Habitats Directive. This means that we are not free to do exactly what we want in this matter. What we are doing is trying to ensure that the tools we have are as effective as possible. In the last bill carried out – this usually boils down to a question of licence hunting or not licence hunting – the number was 365 animals. We have a decision that 300 is what is required to cope with favourable conservation status. Therefore, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has left a delegation to the County Administrative Board on licence hunting.
i-ec464d42452b062b-352	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It's great that we might, hopefully, get a license hunt. However, such an example as what I now read out calls for protection hunting, and those guidelines are very square. Above all, they are almost 15 years old. We haven't updated them, while people are experiencing bigger and bigger problems. Is it not high time to update the guidelines for protection hunting?
i-ec464d42452b062b-353	Madam President, I would like I do not rule out updating regulations in all areas to ensure that they have effective and good measures. As far as protection hunting is concerned, we have made a number of decisions linked to it. We have introduced an urgency requirement because for a while it was a concern that it took too long for a decision to be made. There were also views on the legal certainty of the decisions because it could distinguish between them, and then we appointed a county administrative board as the responsible authority to deal with all appeals. So we have done a lot, but I am prepared to do more.
i-ec464d42452b062b-355	Madam President, I would like The correctional services have now announced that they are going into the state of their staff because the prisons are full. It is something that endangers the normal work and safety of prisoners, but also, not least, the safety of the prison staff. This is not a new problem, Madam President. The trend has been clear for many years. Yet the government has not acted. We are now in budgetary times and can see that nothing that the government has presented to the prison services will bring about significant improvements. The Swedish democrats' proposal to rent places in other countries would immediately make a difference to the overcrowding we see in our institutions. The question is why the government cannot accept that proposal, which would immediately make a big difference in order to increase security and safeguard the situation of the prison staff in our institutions.
i-ec464d42452b062b-359	Madam President, I would like It should be borne in mind that this is because we have both tightened the penalties and provided enormous resources to ensure that more police officers are available. We aim to have 10,000 more police employees in the country by 2024. Then, of course, one of the side effects is that we both catch and prosecute more people. Then the prisons will be full too. What, then, is the solution to this? Well, building more institutions. This offensive against crime will continue, both by providing additional resources and by continuing to tighten the penalties where necessary, but also, of course, by strengthening the resources for the whole chain of justice – to the Prison Service, to the Prosecutor's Office, and more. Now we hear here that just because we have not taken on board this kind of fake proposal would not do anything. It is exactly the opposite, Madam President. If something is to happen, you have to make sure to build here in Sweden, and that is exactly what we are doing.
i-ec464d42452b062b-362	Madam President, I would like Nothing that the government announces to do will improve the situation of the overcrowding of the penitentiary in the foreseeable future. By 2029 we will have a strained situation in our institutions. Is it a reasonable work situation? Is that a reasonable approach? Is it the government's announcement to the correctional staff that by 2029 you will have a strained situation with increased risks in your everyday work? Norway and Belgium have rented prison places in the Netherlands to meet the hump of overcrowding they have had in those countries. Why can't the government in Sweden do that?
i-ec464d42452b062b-364	Madam President, I would like When it comes to combating crime, there are no shortcuts. We must ensure that we continue to build our judicial system by strengthening resources with more police officers, more prosecutors and more people working in prison. When it is overcrowding, because in many respects we manage to ensure that more are both caught and prosecuted, we have to make sure that we build, and I think we have to do so in our country. Trying to solve it by putting it in the hands of someone else over time, I don't think will work.
i-ec464d42452b062b-365	Madam President, I would like Sweden has generous parental insurance for a child to have the right and access to both parents when it is small. More women take parenting days during the child's first year of life, and it is important that these decisions are made at the kitchen table. But it is also important that they are lacking in the best interests of the child, that is, that the child is entitled to both of his parents. There are both women and men who are questioned when they want to distribute leave more equally, and there are also women who oppose their children's fathers when they want to take leave. In order to speed up the change, we need to change both the standards and the rules that exist. In 2017, the government received an investigation with a number of proposals to obtain a more equal take-out of parental insurance. Some of the proposals concern when to take different days out, to remove the so-called speed premium, and also to reserve guarantee days per parent. My question goes to Ardalan Shekarabi. I wonder when the Minister intends to present a proposal based on the proposals in the 2017 investigation.
i-VaCjmUSR2u6DJqX3dzQj5Z	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Martina Johansson, for the question! Parental insurance is one of the very best parts of our social model, something that makes Sweden inspire other countries. I just heard on the way here that the French Government is now showing great interest in the Swedish model of parental insurance, an insurance that is a prerequisite for both gender equality, well-functioning labour markets and high labour market participation. There are proposals on the government table that are about creating even more equal parental insurance. These are basically good proposals. However, so far there has been a lack of majority in Parliament for the proposals. Parts of the proposals have been explicitly rejected by the majority of Parliament. Against this background, the government has not presented a new bill after the former met with opposition from the parliamentary majority. However, we have had a dialogue with the parliamentary parties in the Social Security Committee and intend to continue that dialogue in order to find ways of getting any improvements to parental insurance.
i-ec464d42452b062b-371	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It's really exciting to hear that there are a lot of people watching our parental insurance. We agree that it is a good insurance policy that is generous and supports many. But is there a plan for, after these talks have landed, when the minister will put a bill on the table?
i-ec464d42452b062b-374	Madam President, I would like The Government does not intend to present a bill unless there is a majority for the bill. So far, we have seen no opening up to a majority of the most dominant proposals contained in the report. However, changing the situation, we will of course also consider making proposals. However, we await any changes to the positions of the parliamentary parties.
i-ec464d42452b062b-375	Madam President, I would like The crisis is not over, and it is especially noticeable when I talk to Stina, Lena, Stefan, Dag– the list can be made long over those entrepreneurs who have not yet seen the smoke of the compensation for short-term work. They are still waiting for information about when their case will be handled at the Swedish Agency for Growth after a waiting period of more than four months from the date of application. If you are also a small business owner in the tourism industry, the situation is extremely tough – for many it is critical. The Industry Committee today met with the Swedish Agency for Growth, which also confirms this picture. If we're going to have a few companies in the future, the government needs to secure and keep its promises. It has now been six months since the pandemic struck and caused this hurricane of unpleasantness. Several thousand entrepreneurs have still not heard anything.
i-SsqKL3Gtg9zn9k3ivXjWTf	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Brodin, for an important question! I think it was a very good description of what happened last spring to call it a hurricane. It affected our business sector as a result of the pandemic that took place at the beginning of March. Against this background, Madam President, we introduced a large number of measures to mitigate the effects on jobs and entrepreneurship. It had the effect that tens of thousands of companies contacted the Swedish Agency for Growth and other authorities that handle many of these efforts: short-term work, conversion support, rent support, etc. In parallel, we also provided resources so that more people could be brought in by the authorities to help. I think most people understand that it is not possible to maintain this type of great bureaucracy so that everything goes at once, but we will continue to strengthen both the authorities and help them to deal with this very difficult situation. I understand the frustration of entrepreneurs, but I think the authorities are doing their best, and we're gonna keep working to make it work.
i-ec464d42452b062b-382	Madam President, I would like I think the answer did not really describe what the Minister for Economic Affairs should do next. If we look at a new survey from Entrepreneurship, we see that almost half of the entrepreneurs describe the government's emergency measures as inadequate and cumbersome, which in itself is a small warning bell. What will the Minister do to make more people want to be entrepreneurs in the future? After all, companies are the basis of our welfare.
i-ec464d42452b062b-385	Madam President, I would like We have introduced the largest support programme ever to mitigate the impact on jobs and entrepreneurship in our country. We are now making changes in this program to make it a little more accurate. We strengthen the authorities in order to meet the high demand. We will continue to do so. In parallel, we present the biggest budget ever to be able to invest in order to increase both the number of jobs and the number of companies in the future.
i-ec464d42452b062b-388	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Matilda Ernkrans. We see increased inequality in Swedish schools, and school segregation is still a major problem. What is particularly painful is that pupils attending schools in socio-economically vulnerable areas have less access to trained, experienced and qualified teachers. At the same time, we still have a high shortage of teachers. From the Liberals we have said that we are prepared to invest even more in training efforts, which is part of the budget. We also believe that the government needs to act actively to attract back the thousands of trained teachers who have left. However, what is perhaps important in the long term and which is directly subject to the mandate of the Government is teacher training. Here we see big dropouts and that it continues in that way. We also see shortcomings in the flow.
i-ec464d42452b062b-393	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad is on one of the really big tasks that this government has had, also in cooperation in the middle of Swedish politics. During the pandemic, we have ensured that education has been able to continue, even when it was at a distance, in our universities and colleges. We have made sure to increase the number of training places by 12 000 already this year, and we are now bringing new information about another 19 000 training places. That is what determines that we can actually accept more students in our higher education. We increased admissions by 10 percent this autumn, which is very important. These are also training places, many of which are aimed precisely at vocational training. Teacher training is one of the courses where the search pressure has increased, and where we can now also answer with new training places. I find this extremely gratifying and important in order for us to manage to get more educated teachers in our schools.
i-ec464d42452b062b-395	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. My question was about the flow and the frequency of examinations. Basically, the problem is not the number of places in teacher training. We've had empty seats for a long time, and we don't mind focusing on the shortage professions. But last autumn, for example, there was no competition to 50% of the seats. How will the government ensure that more people graduate and go through teacher training? That is what ultimately means that we have, among other things, increased incompetence in schools.
i-ec464d42452b062b-398	Madam President, I would like Reforming teacher education is also part of what we work with. Two investigators have looked at how we can take the next step, and we will send it for a referral in the autumn. In the meantime, we have also jointly taken other measures to strengthen quality and ensure that more people actually get through teacher training with more of teacher-led time where we have put theory and practice against each other. There will also be further measures that we agree to put on Parliament's table to ensure a really good teacher training.
i-ec464d42452b062b-400	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask a question to Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. The employment rate in August was almost 68 per cent, which is certainly 1 percentage point lower than it was in the same month last year, but at the same time we have to regard it as a record high because the employment rate has been around 65 per cent throughout the 2000s. At the same time, we have an ongoing pandemic that has led to an increase in unemployment and also a lack of confidence in the future labour market. Of course, this affects the whole country, but perhaps especially those regions and localities that have had difficulties with both the growth and employment of staff even before the pandemic. This particularly affects the ability of small municipalities to invest in the necessary infrastructure and well-being. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs what plans and investment proposals the government has in terms of facilitating the hiring of new companies and in order to be able to grow.
i-ec464d42452b062b-403	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Teres Lindberg, for a very important question! Everyone understands how important jobs are for a society but also for the individual. That is the focus of the budget that the government has just put on Parliament's table. To say as the Minister of Finance, it's the jobs, it's the jobs, it's the jobs. We will spend over 20 billion more next year on welfare – ensuring that more people can be employed in elderly care, school and health care. This will increase both quality and employment. We do so through our major investments in education and security. Over 11 billion are being invested, both to ensure the supply of skills, which Teres Lindberg was involved in, and to ensure greater security for those who, despite these efforts due to the pandemic, need to leave jobs. We are also making the biggest investment in green conversion. This is, of course, necessary for the environment. But it is also extremely important for the country's competitiveness and thus for the ability to assert jobs and welfare in the future.
i-ec464d42452b062b-408	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. I think what the government is doing right now, to create faith in the future, is quite right. Indeed, following the health crisis that the pandemic is de facto, we are also likely to enter an economic crisis. Society needs to do all we can to curb the economic crisis we can face. I would therefore like to send you to the government: Keep up the good work! But be sensitive too! We may need to come up with new measures to create the confidence that our society needs in the future.
i-ec464d42452b062b-411	Madam President, I would like I can assure Teres Lindberg that we are ready. We are still in the midst of this miserable pandemic. We see that the disease is again increasing in large parts of Europe. We see signs of that in our country too. Against this background, the government is prepared to take further action. We should not be content with the measures that have already been presented. If this proves necessary, we are prepared to take action, both to support companies and employees and to sow for the future.
i-ec464d42452b062b-413	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Enterprise. Climate is one of today's major global destiny issues. Nevertheless, the government has an almost nationalistic view of climate policy. But when it comes to jobs, it's almost like the government's thinking exactly the opposite. Madam President, I would like There are rumours of a government crisis in which government power is at stake and that it depends on a small word spelled: Yes. The extension of Preemraff would create 3 000 new construction jobs and 250 new jobs. The Moderates stand up for a better climate globally and for an obvious yes to an extension of Preemraff. Will the Social Democrats choose to hold government power with the Green Party or save jobs, jobs, jobs on the West Coast?
i-ec464d42452b062b-418	Madam President, I would like This is not a party political debate between M and S, but I am here as a representative of the government and to answer questions. As far as climate policy is concerned, the government's view is not nationalistic. It must necessarily be global. That's it. Nevertheless, it must be remembered that one's credibility will not be very great if one is to tell others what to do but does not take the necessary steps to make a proper climate change change. Madam President, I would like Moreover, as Minister for Enterprise, I am convinced that it will be at the heart of our competitiveness, for companies as well as for us as a country, that we can show a way forward in which we make our economy, our jobs and our businesses increasingly green while at the same time creating new jobs and thereby strengthening our competitiveness and prosperity. As far as Preemraff is concerned, it is a legal matter. When the question is prepared, we will of course give a joint response.
i-ec464d42452b062b-422	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Shekarabi. Based on an announcement from the Riksdag, the Government has produced a compensation for those who belong to risk groups and may be particularly hard hit by covid-19. It was gratifying that at the last moment the Government announced an extension. Unfortunately, however, it has proved more difficult than expected to be granted this grant. For example, the requirement to have several of certain diagnoses has caused this in part. The government allocated 3.5 billion and estimated about 100,000 applications. But only 3,000 have applied. Nevertheless, assessments have been narrow, and about half of them have been rejected. There should therefore be scope for reviewing the strict requirements for obtaining the grant. Otherwise, people at risk may be forced to continue going to work and risk becoming seriously ill in a second wave. The Swedish Work Environment Agency has also advised pregnant women not to care for severely ill people in covid-19. My question to Minister Shekarabi is therefore whether the Government intends to review these strict rules so that those who need to benefit from the grant and whether he intends to review the possibility of pregnancy being considered a risk factor.
i-ec464d42452b062b-427	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Julia Kronlid! There has been a very constructive dialogue between Parliament and the government in dealing with this issue. It is extremely important that those people who are part of the risk groups identified by the authority and who cannot work from home or adapt their work in such a way that they can protect themselves against the infection have financial security. Against this background, we have introduced a benefit for that particular group. Today it was announced that the benefit will be extended throughout the year. This is a good and important message, which has also been produced in dialogue with the Riksdag. In this connection, we announce that we are expanding the group receiving the benefit. It is enough now to have a severe lung disease. It will be described more by the authority. It is also enough to have municipal assistance. In the past, there was a requirement for state assistance. It is one way to identify shortcomings in the system and to adjust the system.
i-ec464d42452b062b-431	Madam President, I would like Our finance minister Magdalena Andersson presented here on Monday's budget with many large, positive initiatives that make Sweden better. An important part of the budget concerns food, rural areas, agriculture, forests, broadband and rural business. Madam President, I would like The government and parliament have rightly been rather restrictive and tough in the budget negotiations with the EU. At the same time, there has been great concern in Sweden that a reduction in EU aid would give rise to more expensive food and less favourable conditions for our farmers. Now that the budget is fixed, it may seem strange to the unannounced that the government in the rural development programme is heavily compensating for the cuts. Could the Minister for Rural Development present the government's work on the rural programme to ensure broadband, farmers and sustainable food on our kitchen tables?
i-ec464d42452b062b-434	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Isak From, for my great confidence in my ability to explain this great in one minute! The government has had a clear entry into the whole negotiation on the MFF, i.e. the long-term budget, in Brussels. It's about us keeping our discount and keeping our membership fee down. The reason for this has also been clear all along. Every penny that is not spent in Brussels we can instead spend in Sweden. Much of the effort in this budget is a result of our success in that mission. For example, we are keeping the rural development programme at the same level as before. We spend money on broadband, and we spend money on infrastructure, such as road and rail. All these are important elements in ensuring that we have good conditions for doing business throughout Sweden and to live and live throughout Sweden.
i-ec464d42452b062b-438	Madam President, I would like I have just received an answer from Minister Ernkrans to a written question. It was about Lund University choosing to teach with the help of only recorded lectures. The answer I got was that the Government assumes that teaching takes place in a way that protects quality while it is disease-proof. It is quite clear that in Lund's case quality has not been protected. It could have divided classes into smaller groups or had seminars and workshops to create interaction between teachers and students. But no, that's not gonna happen. Students are only offered a recorded video. It is, in my view, far from qualitative education. I therefore repeat my question to Matilda Ernkrans. What measures does the Government intend to take to ensure that its students receive an education worthy of the name?
i-ec464d42452b062b-441	Madam President, I would like I want to be very clear. It is absolutely self-evident that there should be quality higher education throughout the country. It is now a matter of designing the education and adapting its activities to the recommendations of the Public Health Agency. The whole thing is that we are still in a pandemic. Only today we have been told that we are now moving from a low spread of infection to an increase in Stockholm, Skåne, Dalarna and other parts of the country. It is the responsible authority that has to adapt its activities to the recommendations of the Public Health Authority. I have a very close dialogue with the country's university directors that they have to do this well with the students. Students have high demands that the programme also in a pandemic should be of high quality.
i-ec464d42452b062b-444	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Enterprise. A serious problem in Sweden is the Islamist organisations which, through government agencies, each year absorb millions in contributions from taxpayers. A number of researchers have found that the study association Ibn Rushd, the development organisation Islamic Relief and other organisations in Swedish civil society are linked to the Muslim Brotherhood. Yet these Islamist organisations receive millions in grants from authorities such as Sida and the Folkbildningsrådet. Despite warnings from Säpo, among others, that organizations in Sweden with links to violent environments receive state and municipal funds, the government does very little. All these millions of contributions make the government, led by the Social Democrats, one of the largest financiers of radical Islamism in Sweden. How has that happened, Ibrahim Baylan?
i-ec464d42452b062b-446	Madam President, I would like One should be careful to remember that a basic requirement for receiving support for society that concerns the formation of people is fundamental democracy. We must share our view of democracy and human rights. We have had the kind of discussion that Jonas Andersson is now discussing in the past. The government has both tightened up the rules and ensured that the Folkbildningsrådet and others can follow up and withdraw support where the basic democratic requirements, which we have every right to set, are not met. Does this mean that we can thus say that all the problems are solved for the future? No, I think we need to continue to follow up on this. Of course, we should not accept that there are associations or organisations that violate human dignity or have a vision that is undemocratic. That is why the government will continue to monitor this work and to strengthen it where necessary.
i-ec464d42452b062b-449	Madam President, I would like In the midst of a burning pandemic, when the aviation industry in the whole world is on its knees and no one knows what the future will look like, the government has taken the opportunity to request a survey from Swedavia on how to speed up the closure of Bromma airport. Bromma airport is crucial when business aviation needs to be put in place quickly to restart Sweden after the pandemic. It is an airport that also enables several airlines to fly in small destinations, where the state airline does not always fly. It is also an airport that makes the whole of Sweden stick together and get easy and fast access to Stockholm. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is therefore as follows: has the government also taken the opportunity to quickly investigate what effects the closure of Bromma will have on the business community, or is this just a concession for the Green Party?
i-ec464d42452b062b-452	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Åsa Coenraads, for the question! First of all, let me just say in fact that there is no state airline. Yes, we are the largest minority shareholder in an airline of 14.8% today, but no state airline exists. However, there is a state aviation infrastructure, and it is currently on its knees. We are located since the pandemic started at between minus 80 and minus 95% of traffic. It is against this background that the government has proposed the Riksdag and has received its support to provide large resources from taxpayers' money – 3.15 billion – to Swedavia. At this point, it is both wise and, I believe, necessary for the company to turn every stone around to see how to make the best use of taxpayers' money. We are still in the middle of the crisis. It won't go at all. Not to turn over every stone and look over every cost would be a waste of taxpayers' money. That is why it is wise to do this.
i-ec464d42452b062b-456	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Matilda Ernkrans. Unfortunately, the pandemic has brought higher unemployment. It is very sad for the individuals who have been affected. At the same time, however, many people are given the opportunity to do something constructive when they are unemployed, namely to study, which is something very important. This is about individuals of different ages and backgrounds. I wonder how the great need for education can be met. This is particularly true of the need for nurses, nurses and the like and for universities of applied sciences to cooperate with universities in order to improve their quality.
i-ec464d42452b062b-458	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lena Emilsson, for the question! It is extremely important that we can respond to both the increased interest in education and the increased need that we see. We're gonna work our way out of this crisis. We're going to strengthen our welfare. We're going to have a green reboot. But this requires a lot of training. It is therefore very gratifying that we can now move forward with a major investment in education. We are talking about 55 000 new training places in 2021. It is about places in universities of applied sciences and universities of applied sciences, but also in universities and universities. Many of these focus on vocational training where there is increased interest. I believe that the pandemic has shown many how important professions such as nurse and nurse are. Thank you for the question. I am really glad that we can respond to the increased interest.
i-ec464d42452b062b-462	Madam President, I would like I would like to put my question to the Minister for Higher Education and Research, Matilda Ernkrans. She'll have to stand in the speaker's chair again. The forthcoming EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, Horizon Europe, has recently been announced. It shows significant cuts in comparison with both the Commission's proposal and the previous proposal of the European Parliament. It is mainly within the European Research Council, the ERC, and the Marie Skłodowska-Curie Skłodowska-Curie programme that the reductions are seen. The ERC is important for both cutting-edge and round-the-clock research. The Marie Skłodowska-Curie-Curie programme is important for the exchange of research between researchers and countries in particular. The Minister has previously talked about investing a lot in education. She has also said that the framework budget will increase. I am not allowed to go along with this, because we see that it is decreasing. The declining research framework is very worrying for large parts of research in Sweden. Sweden is of great importance for Europe's research. It is also important that we in Europe have strong research so that we can compare ourselves with both the USA and China. Next week there will be a Council of Ministers. Then the position will be that Sweden defends excellence and quality in research. My question to the Minister is: how can we maintain quality and excellence when budgetary frameworks are reduced?
i-ec464d42452b062b-467	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Marie-Louise Sandström, for the question. A new European research programme is extremely important. It is important that it is a research programme that also Swedish researchers can benefit from. As far as the European research budget is concerned, we must put it in the right perspective. First of all, Sweden has pushed all the way to increase the research budget even when the overall financial framework is reduced. Unfortunately, not enough other countries thought the same thing. But Sweden has pushed for this all the way. We should remember, however, that if we take Britain out of the equation – they have left the EU – the research budget will actually increase. It is decreasing in comparison with the Commission's proposal, but it is actually increasing in comparison with the research budget that we have now. It is still important that we help to say what is correct, is it not?
i-ec464d42452b062b-470	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Minister Baylan my question. As a foreigner, I am concerned about the financial problems facing our airport, Stockholm Skavsta Airport. It is very important for our labour market, because it provides a large number of jobs at the airport itself, but also in other industries in the region. Skavsta is also Sweden's third largest airport. In June 2020, the Swedish government presented several state aid to the aviation sector, including to Swedavia, SEK 3 billion. Skavsta has been affected at least as much as Swedavia airports by the coronapandemin. In the absence of any aid, despite the very serious situation of Skavsta, the airport has not received any aid. The representatives have not even been allowed to meet the Minister. Why has Stockholm Skavsta Airport not benefited from the State aid that all other comparable airports have received?
i-ec464d42452b062b-474	Madam President, I would like Since the pandemic began, we have introduced a large number of business support measures in general. It includes all parts of the business community. In addition, the state is a shareholder or full owner of a large number of companies, including Swedavia, which manage the public airport network. As owners, of course, we have had to go in and make efforts. The proposal has been here in Parliament. It's 5 billion to SAS, because they're central to the air infrastructure in this country. We own Swedavia, which owns both Arlanda and other state airports. We have a responsibility as owners to ensure that they can operate. As Lotta Finstorp knows, the flight activity is between – 80 and – 95 per cent – it has varied during the spring and beyond. Basically, of course, it is a question of taking responsibility as owner for what is the state's company.
i-ec464d42452b062b-477	Madam President, I would like I have a general political question. The most important election promise of the Social Democrats in the 2014 elections was that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. 27 out of 28 nations used the boom to reduce unemployment — not Sweden. Here the situation deteriorated considerably compared with other nations. Sweden is also the country that has increased unemployment most of the EU Member States since 2014. Even now, during the current crisis, Sweden is really moving in a worrying direction. Today, as many as 500 000 people are unemployed and 500 000 more are laid off. And the numbers are rising.
i-ec464d42452b062b-479	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Saila Quicklund, for an important issue of jobs and employment! Statistics can be tricky. After all, we have had the highest rate of employment throughout the European Union for a very long time. You can look at a country, no matter which country, in the European Union and compare it with ours. The Swedish people are a busy people. We're working. Then, of course, the question is: Why is it that we also have higher unemployment than many other countries? Yes, it is about that in Sweden, both men and women work. The supply of labour is greater in our country than in, almost, any other country. This is important to remember when comparing countries. We still have the highest level of employment in the European Union – we shall have that. Of course, we are not satisfied that there are far too many people without work. It is against this background that we have presented a budget that focuses precisely on jobs, jobs, jobs. According to estimates, another 75 000 Swedes will have a job to go to thanks to this budget.
i-ec464d42452b062b-483	Madam President, I would like My question is also about the jobs, the jobs, the jobs. It's about the companies. Every year it has become more difficult and difficult to run companies in Sweden. A major reason for this is the regulatory burden, which has increased almost every year since 2009. It is clear to me that it is the companies that drive Swedish welfare, but often it feels like it is forgotten. The state and municipal bureaucracy must never stand in the way of enterprise. We should thank the companies instead of drowning them in bureaucracy. In Halland we now see that Falkenberg is at the top of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise's survey on the business environment. Kungsbacka, Halmstad and Hylte slopes. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs what he intends to do to ease the regulatory burden on Swedish and Halland companies.
i-ec464d42452b062b-486	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Antoni, for an important question! In almost all international comparisons when it comes to the business environment or innovation power in the business sector, Sweden is very high up. It's not a coincidence. It is something that we have worked and will continue to work actively with almost regardless of government. In parallel, of course, we are trying to make it as easy as possible to both start up and run businesses in our country. Madam President, I am a little perplexed when I hear that Helena Antoni believes that we are not doing enough for the companies. After all, over a period of six months, we have come up with nearly 800 billion in various guarantees, various loan programmes and direct support to our business community to mitigate the effects of the pandemic that exists. We are doing this because we have to stick together in a small country. We must ensure that we assert jobs and welfare in the country. Saying we're not doing anything is a bit of a tummy thing.
i-ec464d42452b062b-488	Madam President, I would like Lars Thomsson has asked me a number of questions about accessibility for domestic flights and climate-smart flights. The questions were raised in the light of Swedavia AB's analysis of Bromma airport. The spread of the new Corona virus and the covid-19 disease has affected air travel dramatically, and air traffic has fallen sharply. Even before that, we saw a reduced flight. We are in a situation where the future is uncertain. Both reduced flight and covid-19 affect the aviation market in both the short and long term. Under current market conditions, Swedavia AB has carried out an impact assessment of the continued operation of Bromma airport based on the company's mission and business perspective. The company has presented its conclusions. Swedavia's assessment is that under current market conditions it is not commercially justified to operate Bromma airport further. The impact of Swedavia's assessment must now be analysed. As regards the question of the government's efforts on the accessibility of domestic aviation, measures have been taken during the year. Among other things, the Government has decided on a temporary public service obligation on a number of routes to and from Norrland and Gotland. The Riksdag has also decided, in accordance with the Government's proposal, that temporary operating aid should be granted to regional airports during 2020. The government has also decided on measures regarding electric flights and biofuel-powered flights, which Lars Thomsson also asks about. For example, the Government has commissioned Trafikanalys to develop a knowledge base on electric flights. The Finnish Transport Agency has also been commissioned to conduct a feasibility study that highlights, among other things, the extent to which procured air traffic can contribute to reduced climate impact. The Government also intends to implement proposals from the so-called Biojet investigation on a reduction obligation for aviation, which will lead to a higher involvement of biofuels. Overall: The impact of Swedavia's assessment must now be analysed, but Lars Thomsson can rely on the government to implement measures for both accessibility and reduced emissions from aviation.
i-ec464d42452b062b-495	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Infrastructure. That I'm asking the question about Bromma's future is because I'm really worried. I am concerned about accessibility around Sweden but also about Bromma's future, because I see and hear in the debate that so many people do not understand the problem. That's why I'm going to spend a few minutes trying to figure this out. First of all, I have to say that it does not feel serious to investigate Bromma in the middle of a crisis and take support in decline and statistics in the midst of the deepest crisis. This is a long-term infrastructure issue that is very important for the country, and then you should make long-term decisions based on long-term considerations and not in the short term in crisis. Putting down Bromma is the wrong timing. We need to be helped to restart the country and its regions, and then we should not actually close Bromma, which is the hub of regional aviation. Bromma is not primarily a Stockholm issue, but is a matter for Sweden's regions. That is the focus of the Bromma issue. Bromma's advantages compared to Arlanda are hardly ever highlighted. But as a Gotlander who has flown close to Stockholm for almost ten years, I know that there are a number of them. The main advantage is of course the speed and the total distance between the airport and Stockholm city. It's completely outstanding. The airport is small, and it's fast in and out. We know that Bromma is 4 kilometres from the city centre, while it is 44 kilometres to Arlanda. You don't get around that, regardless of whether you have Arlanda Express. For Gotland it has been shown that 70 per cent of our traffic on an annual basis goes towards Bromma, because that airport is much more accessible than Arlanda. Bromma thus contributes in practice to regional enlargement. In addition, the transportation to and from Bromma is significantly cheaper than Arlanda Express, which costs three to four times more. What is also essential about Bromma's existence is that over the years it has proved to be a very important factor in being able to have competition in the airspace. Small companies have tried to establish themselves at Arlanda but find it difficult to cope with the competition with the pricing that Arlanda has. You do not get access to streets and slots during peak time, something that is really needed to be attractive and attract travellers at Arlanda. Therefore, the small regional companies have often gone to Bromma, which has been a success factor for a lively domestic flight with good competition. In the near future Tvärbanan is also completed, which means that we get a fixed connection to Solna further towards Stockholm city. Finally, it should be added that closing Bromma will not solve Arlanda's problems. Arlanda has problems coping with international competition; I understand that too. But putting down Bromma won't help this.
i-ec464d42452b062b-502	Madam President, I would like I find it interesting that Lars Thomsson has put this interpellation. Swedavia presented this report last week, and for that reason we called today's Transport Committee in Swedavia's CEO J onas Abrahamsson just to discuss the issue. We also invited the Enterprise Committee to this meeting, since the ownership issue is primarily at the Ministry of Industry and the Minister for Enterprise. Nevertheless, I would like to give some of what Jonas Abrahamsson said during our meeting today, because I thought it was very interesting. He spoke about the rather in-depth analysis that Swedavia has done based on what the aviation market looks like in Sweden today because of the pandemic and what it will look like in the future. How this affects travel patterns actually landed in three points. First of all, he wanted to highlight digitalisation, i.e. how we have started using digital opportunities to communicate with each other very quickly because of the pandemic. Whether we get a vaccine tomorrow, society will not be restored exactly to what has been, but the analysis is that the fact that people today communicate much more digitally with each other will affect business travel in particular to a very large extent. Clearly, people will want to meet, meet and talk to each other at real meetings, but there will be far fewer of them. The second point he made was precisely what the pandemic and the situation we are facing at the moment have meant for the entire aviation market, how it knocks out large and smaller airlines and so on. This means that there will be a reduction in supply. Therefore, once the flight gets started in some form of normal operation again, it will not be at all the same, but it will give priority to the most profitable routes, which simply contributes to fewer flights. So there is of course the economic perspective, which was the third that he highlighted, and it is about that however we behave and behave, the pandemic will have affected our society very badly economically. This applies not least to the finances of private individuals, which will also limit our travel. Even in a longer perspective, Swedavia sees that they will have a huge overcapacity at all their ten airports, but primarily on flights in the Stockholm region. From this perspective, they make the business analysis that there is no profitability in this. At the same time, we politicians must relate to whose money we are actually dealing with. We have the legend Gustav Möller, who said that a waste of taxes is a theft from the people. They are the ones who choose us and give us the confidence to carry the questions forward. In this perspective, we must also remember that we have only this year contributed over SEK 3 billion to Swedavia. In this House, we have decided on this so that Swedavia can manage its activities. Then we really need to think about what choices we make and how. It cannot primarily be that it is a little more comfortable at one airport for some than for others.
i-ec464d42452b062b-510	Madam President, I would like Thanks to Teres Lindberg and Lars Thomsson, both of whom in their posts describe the challenge we face! We should remember that even before the pandemic we could see changes in travel habits. Here in Sweden we talked about air cams, and as Minister of Infrastructure I clearly noticed the train boom that gave a massive increase in train travel, because they wanted to choose climate-smart trips. Then came a pandemic, which meant that virtually all flights stood still. The government's starting point was then to go in quite quickly and act to ensure that we could at least maintain socially important transport. When commercial airlines close down because they are not profitable, when the market is not working, then a strong society must intervene. Gotland was running out of air connections at all. Therefore, the Government took a public service decision. This meant that we secured flights for Gotland to the mainland and for Norrland. In the event that we would end up in a situation where there was a need for rapid transport of medical personnel or medical supplies, it was important to ensure that there was still rapid transport. It was an extraordinary decision we took, and the government has now proposed an extension of public service obligations precisely in order not to end up in a situation where increased contamination would result in us not being able to cope with essential social transport. Normally, we are used to commercial forces and aviation being able to meet, together with other transport operators, the transport needs that exist in Sweden. However, when the pandemic strikes, and not least when the economic conditions for airlines change, society must nevertheless ensure and ensure that socially important transport is possible. For aviation operators, the government has provided credit guarantees, infrastructure support and, in particular, aid to regional airports to cope with fire and rescue aircraft conditions – not least during the summer. And aviation operators say it will take time before we see a recovery. I believe that the international trade organisation has mentioned 2024 for possible re-launch. This demonstrates the importance that we in Sweden must be prepared to ensure socially important transport. But this also shows that there is a window for the conversion that aviation needs to make. Both me and Lars Thomsson visited Gothenburg yesterday. Säve Airport showed the engine of the electric aircraft that Heart Aerospace is now building. Now there is the opportunity to ensure that the right investments are made so that the aircraft is able to become fossil-free. There is no doubt that the flight is important for Sweden, but the flight needs to be changed. Here the government is clear in the Biojet investigation, with support for electrification and with the assignment to Trafikanalys to see how the consequences of electrification of aviation in the future can look like so that the right infrastructure is in place. This must be the starting point for the long-term work that Lars Thomsson describes, i.e. now to look at how the aircraft should be changed and what infrastructure conditions are required for that to be possible. Then there is hope and the possibility that we can get a flight that not only increases accessibility but also meets the climate requirements. It must be a basic requirement in the future.
i-ec464d42452b062b-519	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answers given by the Minister for Infrastructure and Teres Lindberg. It is important not just to look at the situation today. I get a little worried when I hear Teres Lindberg arguing hard because it doesn't matter for accessibility if we lose a minute Arlanda versus Bromma. Yes, it does. It's a matter of looking ahead. What's going on? Well, we'll have electric flights in a few years. Just as Tomas Eneroth described, we visited Heart Aerospace Hangar Day yesterday. We know that within three or four years there will be other electric flights in place, and it will probably take six years before these are in place. With a halved variable cost per person-kilometre for electric flights, this will be the return of regional flights. It becomes clear to the electric flight; the return of regional aviation. If regional flights are to be available in the Stockholm region, Bromma is needed. That is why I am in favour of this argument. I think it's a long-term mistake to shut down Bromma. The experts who investigated the issue of electric flights in the country say that electric flights will not be suitable for Arlanda. That's their assessment. There are several reasons for that. On the one hand, it is difficult physically to mix heavy traffic and small aircraft, and on the other hand it will be difficult to mix electric flights that are a little slower in speed with the big flights. Putting in many small aircraft reduces the total capacity at Arlanda. It's clear. Small electric aircraft will receive unfavorable routes and slots. Looking ahead, electric flight is a fantastic climate-smart travel option. The electric flight will be regional flights. Large parts of domestic aviation will use biojets and fuel cells. On international flights, it will be biojet, that is, hydrogen with internal combustion engines. For the next generation a great wing develops. There will be a lot of flights ahead, and it will be crucial for the transport infrastructure in Sweden and in the world. When we discuss the Bromma issue, we shall look forward more than backwards. Bromma will be needed in time. The cities with both a large international airport and a city-by-city airport will be strong in a competitive situation. In the long term, it is also very reasonable to transform Bromma into an electricity airport. This means that you can get all the benefits in one. Then a larger area can be opened up for new residential buildings as you can shrink the influence area. What makes me worried is that a decision is rushed out in the middle of a crisis. There's only one chance to keep Bromma, and it's now. If Bromma is closed, there will never again be an airport on a smaller scale around Stockholm. You can never build a new airport again. Chances are right now.
i-ec464d42452b062b-527	Madam President, I would like I cannot help but respond to the issue of aviation and housing in Stockholm. I still have a background as a local politician in Stockholm – as a bourgeois council and as a member of the City Planning Board. I can add in the debate that it is not the noise today that affects the building around Bromma, but the approach. The fact that planes fly in means that the homes cannot be built on the hill. That problem doesn't exist. What parts of Stockholm want to do – and now Lars Thomsson's party in Stockholm, which said last week that Bromma will be closed – is to expand along the approach and at the airport. Around the airport it is already built, although with today's building regulations it would not be allowed. I would like to emphasise that. I would also like to point out something further about the benefits of Arlanda and Bromma. It is clear that if you go on non-peak times there may be an advantage to land on Bromma because it is then possible to get faster from Bromma into Stockholm city. From here to Bromma Airport it is nine kilometers. Of course it can go faster. But still it is not much faster than it is to get from Arlanda with Arlanda Express to Stockholm Central. The major obstacle today is that the infrastructure for bringing people from Arlanda is effectively about other things. It is about price levels and a lack of infrastructure – that it is significantly more expensive. I guess that's the things we should be focusing on. How can we ensure that we can get smarter and cheaper to and from our central airport?
i-ec464d42452b062b-531	Madam President, I would like I'll pick up where Teres Lindberg left off. It is sensible to think about how we are expanding the infrastructure so that accessibility is actually increasing, not least in climate-smart travel. Here, since the last national plan was presented, we have made the biggest railway effort in modern times, precisely to increase accessibility in large parts of the country, modernise Swedish infrastructure and ensure that it is actually possible to travel without major climate footprints or contribute to fossil travel. This must be the starting point of the national plan we are going to develop because Sweden needs to change. This concerns aviation, which we have already talked about. This applies to road transport, maritime transport and, in particular, to ensuring that the train is given the right conditions. Whether we are talking about connections to airports or about other opportunities to move quickly within the country, the construction of new main routes may actually mean that we reduce the need for air travel precisely because high-capacity train traffic instead provides the opportunity for climate-smart travel. Here we see the potential, and the Center Party is one of the parties that has seen the conditions and opportunities for new main roads and the potential for building additional capacity and thus transferring freight and commuter trains to other parts of the rail system. Now that we are looking at the development of flying – because I choose to raise the issue of individual airports to a question of which road choices we are going to make – I can share the point of departure that we need to ensure good accessibility. In a crisis, we do so by going in when the market does not work with common resources and purchasing air traffic, for example from Gotland or to ensure that Norrland has accessibility when it needs important transport. But we must also look at the long term. What's our mission? Yes, it is to ensure that we meet the climate requirements and thus maintain the best possible availability. That is the starting point of the directives that the Government has now given to the Finnish Transport Administration for the infrastructure planning that we are to present, hopefully until 2022. Then the development of aviation but of course also other infrastructure will be the focus. Let us be sure of one thing: then it will not be so much about individual airports, but will be about what travel will look like in the future and how we will ensure that we do it in a climate-smart way that reduces the emissions we have. The transport sector will reduce its emissions by 70% by 2030, and we will become the world's first fossil-free welfare country and by 2045 have zero emissions. I am a tech optimist when I see how aviation now seriously wants to switch with biofuels and electric flights. I am a technology optimist when I see how the automotive industry is changing with electrification and not least connection and digitization of both heavy transport and private cars. We should certainly be able to make this transition, but this is not about individual objects, but rather about the direction of conversion. Here we have a joint effort, the Center Party together with the government parties, to ensure that we do not hesitate as to what direction we should take in transport work in the future. Then I believe that there are good conditions to manage to maintain good flight connections and socially important flights.
i-ec464d42452b062b-538	Madam President, I would like Yes, we fully agree that what is in focus is good accessibility. That is what applies – good accessibility. It can be said that we in the Center Party are in favour of main lines. Yes, it solves the transport needs of a few points. But the equivalent of main routes around the country at regional level is electric flights. It's regional reboot of electric flights. Then you need to have the basics, namely an airport infrastructure that works and survives the crisis. It is clear to me that what the Minister said in Gothenburg yesterday, namely that Sweden will become a permanent world exhibition for climate-smart flights, which I think is a good focus, requires that we have airports that work. I think if Stockholm is going to be on that trip, you need a local airport that can handle electric flights, and then Bromma airport is right for granted. I also believe that there is a responsibility for the owners to provide the necessary funds during the crisis we are experiencing. Unfortunately, our poor municipalities operating the 33 regional airports are allowed to do just that. This is also how the state needs to make us cope with the crisis, because beyond it Bromma and all other regional airports are needed.
i-ec464d42452b062b-542	Madam President, I would like I thank Lars Thomsson for raising the important issue of the challenges we face, not least in aviation. I think my answer is clear: the most important starting point for aviation and for maintaining air transport in Sweden is that the aircraft is able to make the transition. We will create the best conditions for aviation to switch with biofuels and electric flights so that aviation can actually qualify among the modes of transport that will survive when society places clear demands on us to have a fossil-free transport system in the future. We see this development in Sweden, which I am delighted about. I think that must be the starting point of the work we have in infrastructure policy in the future to ensure that Transportsverige meets the climate requirements and that we combine it with maintaining good accessibility – not least for Lars Thomsson's home constituency Gotland to ensure that they have good transport there but also that they are fossil-free.
