i-ca65ca921575ff9a-5	Madam President, I would like In a committee initiative, the Constitutional Committee has proposed the appointment of a parliamentary committee. It will follow up the work of the Riksdag under the coronapdemine. We propose that this be announced to the Riksdag Board. The outbreak of the virus that causes the disease covid-19 has brought to Parliament and the parliamentary process trials that have not previously occurred in modern times. It was considered necessary at an early stage to take measures to ensure that the Riksdag is able to fulfil its tasks even if a large number of members of Parliament are unable to participate in the parliamentary work on site in the Riksdag. The number of Members voting in plenary has decreased. A number of changes have been made to the working methods of the committees. Within the administration, adjustments have been made to provide the authority with the support and service necessary to reduce the risk of both impact on the parliamentary process and the spread of infection. Madam President, I would like A follow-up of the measures taken and of the work of the Riksdag and the Riksdag administration during the pandemic would provide a valuable basis for learning about the work and decision-making processes that have taken place. Such lessons may support the assessment of the need for any change in these processes in the event of extraordinary events. Against this background, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers that there are grounds for initiating a follow-up to Parliament's work under the coronapdemine. According to the committee, such a follow-up should relate to several perspectives on how parliamentary work has been affected by the pandemic. We want the follow-up to focus on three aspects. The first perspective concerns the Riksdag as a decision-making body. The Coronapandemia has, and still is, called for rapid management in the parliamentary process, and the working methods have had to be adapted to reduce the risk of infection. A follow-up in this part should focus on how the maintenance of the parliamentary functions of state law has worked. The focus here is on the work of this House, the committees and the EU Board. The second perspective concerns the conditions for Members of Parliament to carry out the parliamentary mission. The physical absence of members from Parliament's premises may be assumed to have affected not only the participation in the parliamentary and committee work but also the conditions for the membership assignment as a whole. This applies, for example, to contacts with parliamentary groups, party offices, voters and interest organisations and work on international issues. A follow-up from this perspective should focus on how members have been able to carry out the parliamentary mission at individual level. The third perspective concerns the parliamentary administration's support and service to the parliamentary process during the ongoing pandemic. The new conditions have created demands for new technology and changed working processes in the Riksdag. Examples include the new digital solutions needed by the administration in a short time. A number of measures have also been needed to reduce the risk of infection. The focus of a follow-up is in this part on how the administration of the situation has carried out the tasks directly linked to the parliamentary process and to the membership. Madam President, I would like We in committee propose that a parliamentary committee be given the task of carrying out a follow-up of all three aspects mentioned. We also say that the Committee should be free to set up its own work, and it should be unhindered to present all the observations that the survey gives rise to. The Committee should present its mandate by autumn 2021 at the latest. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, using our right of initiative, we propose that the Riksdag should endorse what the committee has said about a follow-up to the Parliament's work under the coronapem and announce this to the Riksdag Board.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-13	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Justice on amended provisions on photographs and fingerprints in the SIS II acquis. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. Sweden is now part of Schengen cooperation, a cooperation that has been created to achieve the objective of allowing people to travel freely within the Schengen area. A large number of rules have been established to ensure the free movement of persons, but also to counter the negative side effects that free movement can have, such as cross-border crime and illegal immigration. The Schengen Information System (SIS) is an example of a measure aimed at strengthening the operational cooperation of the Schengen countries on issues such as law enforcement and migration control. The SIS is a central data system that allows for the exchange of information between Member States. In Sweden, the police are responsible for the national part of the SIS. A foreign citizen who cannot be identified by other means shall be required to photograph or take the fingerprints of a police officer or a specially appointed passport controller or other customs officer, the Coast Guard or the Migration Agency during an entry or exit check or an internal immigration check. Madam President, I would like The SIS II framework, on which the proposal is based, does not regulate the handling of biometric data after a search has been conducted. With reference to certain previous legislative cases, the Government argues that they should be destroyed immediately after a search has been completed. In view of what both the Police Authority and the Migration Agency say in their referrals, one of the government's maintained views on this matter appears unjustified. When the authorities applying the regulatory framework argue that the proposed design would pose problems that significantly affect their ability to solve a task, we believe that there is a need to reconsider such a position. For example, the Migration Agency argues that the issue of storing fingerprints affects the whole Union. If the Migration Agency does not have the possibility to store fingerprints and use them for searching and recording in the SIS, there will be a real risk of authorisation being granted in Sweden or another Member State despite the existence of an alert in the SIS. The Finnish Immigration Service calls for a more in-depth analysis of the possibilities to better achieve the aims of the regulations with an extended possibility of searching and storing biometrics. Madam President, I would like We therefore believe that Parliament should announce to the government that the storage of biometric information should be allowed where possible. In such cases, the period of such storage should be set at the maximum limit laid down by EU law or otherwise until such time as the information is manifestly unnecessary. I would like to end by mentioning that the Police Authority has submitted a request to the Government for a general review of the national regulatory framework on, among other things, the collection of biometric data with a view to strengthening law enforcement activities. We look forward to seeing the government's work on the matter here in Parliament in the near future.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-22	Madam President, I would like This is a question of refugee policy. That is why only the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats are opposed to the issue. The Left Party wants Sweden and Europe to have a humane, dignified and welcoming refugee policy. Everyone should have the opportunity to seek refuge from persecution and oppression. Everyone should be able to have their asylum grounds tested in a legally secure manner. For this to happen, the EU must allow those seeking protection so that they can have their asylum reasons tested. That is not what it looks like today. Instead, the walls around the EU are constantly being built higher, and almost all legal opportunities to get to the EU have been blocked. The Schengen Information System (SIS) is a common computer system for the Member States of the Schengen area. The aim is to have a common border control information system, to prevent the expulsion or rejection of third-country nationals from entering the Schengen area and to coordinate the search for certain objects or persons with a view to combating crime. The SIS has rapidly grown into a gigantic personal register during its operation. Today, Schengen countries have several operational systems with data on third-country nationals. The databases store information, including biometric data, about millions of individuals from third countries. At least 500 000 people with entry bans in Schengen are listed in the system. The number is growing all the time. The impunity of the millions of people registered in the SIS is almost total. Many of these do not know that they are registered and do not know by whom or why. Since the creation of the information system, the Left Party has questioned that the SIS is not just about persons who have committed or are suspected of offences. The SIS is used for a comprehensive alert of a so-called preventive nature, i.e. the registration of persons who are not suspects. A large part of the millions of people currently registered in the SIS are persons from outside the Schengen area who, for various reasons, have been refused their asylum applications. The importance of such an alert is that the persons in question can be rejected directly at the Schengen external border. The number of such expulsions has also increased markedly. In addition, the possibility of a rejected asylum seeker having access to the State apparatus responsible for correcting any inaccuracies must be considered as minimal. This means that persons on perfectly legitimate grounds of asylum are denied redress in accordance with the Geneva Convention. Asylum applications shall always be examined in accordance with applicable conventions regardless of previous decisions. An alert in the SIS shall not deprive the applicant of his or her right to such review. The Government proposes amendments to the Act on the Schengen Information System and the Aliens Act. The amendments concern, inter alia, the provision of the Schengen Information System Act on the use of photographs and fingerprints in order to establish someone's identity. In addition, in the event of an entry or exit check or an internal foreigner's check, an alien shall be required to be photographed and fingerprinted in order to be identified by means of a search in the SIS if the identity cannot be established by other means. Madam President, I would like Using biometric data as the sole basis of identification poses an excessive risk of incorrect identification or non-identification. If only half a percent is misidentified, this is far too many, given the millions of people already registered in these databases. Central storage of biometric data also increases the risk of unauthorised use of these databases, manipulation of biometric data by criminal organisations and possible identity thefts. The reasons we have previously given against the use of biometric data for identification remain. The Government's proposal in the present proposal will further impair the opportunities for people who are on the run to seek protection in Sweden. Furthermore, the proposal will lead to additional pressure on persons in Sweden who are subject to internal foreign control. The Left Party cannot therefore support the Government's proposal in any part. The Left Party is therefore calling for the whole motion to be rejected. We are looking at the technical and integrity difficulties involved in this proposal point-by-point. However, I am not going to tire the House out with even more details on how the SIS works and why it is not a good alternative but refers to the Left Party's motion on the matter. With this, I would like to endorse reservation 1.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-37	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject the motions on the matter. I intend here to briefly outline the background and purpose of this proposal for adjustments to the Schengen Information System Act and the Aliens Act. The world faces great challenges when it comes to people on the run. Not since World War II have so many people been forced to flee their country because of war or persecution. Sweden has taken a major responsibility over the last ten years to alleviate this global situation. We have stood up for the principles of the right of asylum, and we have worked with a strong voice to ensure that the whole of the European family takes joint and several responsibility. However, to be able to have a long-term acceptance of our line requires that we have an orderly reception and a clear control of who is staying in our country. People with multiple identities, trade in fake passports and an exploited trafficking activity – all that and much more occur in our country, but we can never accept that. With today's legislative changes, we give the Police Authority better opportunities to discover whether a person who has a SIS alert is trying to enter or stay in Sweden under false identity. However, this should be done in a legally secure manner, and we believe that the legislative proposal complies well with the criteria set out in this part. As we have heard from previous speakers, the proposals require a foreigner to be required to be photographed and fingerprinted in order to be identified when checking at a border or inside the country if the identity cannot be established in any other way. With this change, a police officer, a specially appointed passport controller or an official of the Finnish Customs, the Swedish Coast Guard or the Finnish Immigration Service will have better opportunities to check identity. The Schengen Information System provides us with a powerful tool to ensure who is seeking access to or staying in our country. There are currently over 90 million people and objects listed in the system. It is a register widely used by police, judicial and migration services in other Member States. Madam President, I would like One issue that has been important in the consultation round for the bill is how to handle the data after checking. This data could be saved, but we believe that it does not harmonise with other legislation. Instead, we want to introduce a provision for the photograph and fingerprint to be immediately destroyed when the identity is clear. This means that the photograph and fingerprint taken for the purpose of verification cannot be used for other purposes.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-45	Madam President, I would like The four freedoms – the free movement of goods, services, people and capital – are at the heart of European cooperation and create great economic, social and cultural values for Sweden and Europe. A prerequisite for the smooth functioning of the free movement of people is the existence of adequate external border control and the possibility of safely identifying third-country nationals entering or staying in the country. The issue we are debating today is that third-country nationals entering or leaving Schengen, as well as internal border controls, should be obliged to be photographed and fingerprinted and that the police or other authorities should be able to use this data to search the Schengen Information System. The amendments proposed in the bill are an adaptation of Swedish legislation to the EU's new police regulation and border regulation and represent a clear improvement compared to today's regulation. The consultation process gives comments on how the information collected can be handled after the checks have been carried out. As mentioned earlier, the Police Authority is critical of the destruction of the data after the inspection, and the Migration Agency is asking for a more in-depth analysis of the possibilities for searching and storing biometrics. We from the Moderates have a great understanding of that criticism, but at the same time we note that there is now a lack of documentation to design the regulation differently right here and now. With regard to the issue of the handling of biometric information, we Moderates believe that the current regulatory framework is fragmented and outdated. We also note that the Police Authority has asked the Government for a general review of the regulations on biometric data. The Moderates' view is that the police need to be given better opportunities to collect, save and use biometric data. However, the issue of biometric information is complex and should be addressed more comprehensively than this case allows. It is also not only about the question of storing information, but also about how the information can be used. From the Moderates, we are addressing the issue of reviewing the regulations on biometric data in several of our party and committee movements. We therefore intend to come back when these are dealt with. We present this in a separate opinion in the report.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-54	Madam President, I would like As previous speakers have explained, today's debate is about a bill that allows our authorities to control a person at a border or inside Sweden. This shall be done by requiring this person to be photographed and fingerprinted in order to be identified by means of a search into the Schengen Information System if the identity cannot be established by any other means during an entry/exit check or an internal check on aliens. This proposal for change is presented following changes to the EU legal framework for the Schengen Information System (SIS). The change is good, and we Christian Democrats support it because it creates the opportunity for us to have more control over who wants to enter but also who is staying here. However, we see the need for further changes to be made in accordance with the proposals made by the relevant authorities in connection with the consultation procedure. Among other things, the Migration Agency and the Police Authority highlight the fact that the proposal means that the biometric data taken during the verification should be destroyed immediately after the search. On the contrary, both authorities recommend that photographs and fingerprints taken for a check under the SIS should be stored to be used, if necessary, at a later date. It highlights the desire for the necessary changes to be made so that legislation allows biometric information to be stored and used in searches even at a later date. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats believe that the views of the Political Authority and the Migration Board are relevant and see, like the Moderates, that we as a legislative assembly should listen to and act according to their opinion. The Finnish Immigration Service sees a need for a more in-depth analysis of the possibility of searching and storing biometrics, and the Swedish Police Authority is critical that the data in accordance with the proposal should be destroyed after the verification. As has been said before, the Police Authority has previously asked the Government to undertake a general review of the regulations on biometric data. We believe that the police and also the Migration Agency should be given better conditions for collecting, saving and using biometric data. However, the issue is complex and should, as has been said earlier, be dealt with more closely by the Riksdag and the Government. It is not only about storage but also about how the information can be used. During the Parliamentary Session in 2021/ 2022, the Committee of Justice and the Riksdag will examine with a broader analysis other proposals concerning a review of the regulations. We Christian Democrats therefore intend to return to the issue in this context. Against this background, we refrain from making reservations for the benefit of the motion but give a special opinion to highlight that the matter needs to be dealt with as soon as possible by the Government and the Riksdag in the future to provide the authorities with the tools they see needed for their activities.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-63	Madam President, I would like The Liberals are in favour of the committee's proposal in the report. We Liberals are strong supporters of European cooperation. We believe that borderlessness is important, that we together enable people to travel freely, businesses to establish themselves and that we create a dynamic in what we call the European Union. When we remove barriers to borders and take down the barriers that exist to allow people to travel freely within our Union, it is important to have clear and strong protection for the external border. There is every reason why we know which people are in Europe. Compared to many other countries, you have the same system. If you go to the United States, to the United Kingdom, or try going to China, you'll see, they want to know who's coming into the country. If it is unclear which person stands at the border, a person who may be an asylum seeker, it is relevant, without carrying out an asylum test, to find out who the person is at our border. Nevertheless, we must take on board the fact that there are quite a lot of threats to Europe at the moment. We've had a number of rather unpleasant acts of terror. We know that in the large group of people who fled not least from the war in Syria, there were many people who had completely different intentions from living according to European values. They wanted to live by some other values and, above all, to attack European and liberal lifestyles. It is therefore important that we give this opportunity for a reinforced control instrument at the border in order to establish identity. It is also reasonable that we should not now, in this matter, decide that we should be allowed to save this anyway. I agree with what the Left Party is putting forward: these records exist for us to know who we do not want to enter our country. People who may have done other things elsewhere in Europe should be identified. One should not be able to sneak in through Sweden, via France or via Portugal in the Union and then cause either serious crime or terrorist acts. So, in order to develop European cooperation and safeguard transparency, Madam President, it is important that we know which people come to our borders. That does not mean that a person who is coming should not be allowed to seek asylum, but we must know who is coming into our country and into our Union. It is absolutely crucial in order to maintain what we want to continue to see as important in Europe – transparency, security and the democracy we want to protect. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-69	Madam President, I would like The Government's efforts to strengthen the Swedish police continue with unabated strength. We are in the midst of a historic investment in the Police Authority, which deals with many billions, sharper tools and not least more police workers, with the target of 10,000 more by 2024. That is an important objective. As chairman of the Committee on Justice, I am very pleased to know that there is broad support among the parties in the Parliament behind the case. We have now reached the halfway point, with over 5 000 more employees in the Police Department since December 2015. Today, we will decide on three important measures to strengthen the protection of police officers and certain other employees of the Police and Security Service. We are introducing a new provision in the Police Act which will allow the police to search the interviewees in the course of questioning, if necessary for safety reasons, in order to search for weapons or other dangerous objects. We are amending the Act on Qualified Protection Identity so that civil employees within the Police Authority can also be given a decision on such an identity, in order to strengthen the police's ability and improve security in particularly protective activities. We are also amending the Patient Safety Act in order to improve personal protection activities. The amendment means that the Swedish Security Service must be able to obtain information about individuals from the healthcare system for all personal protection work for which the Swedish Security Service is responsible. Through these measures, we are taking further steps to improve the working environment and employee protection for police workers. Creating a safe and secure working environment for police workers is an important part of the work to increase the attractiveness of the police profession and other police employment. Madam President, I would like I believe that in the debate from some of the subsequent speakers we will hear that just everyone else except sossar and environmentalists is passionate about the police's working environment and therefore the government will make it known that it will produce a basis that highlights policemen's vulnerability to crime and will come back with proposals to make the working environment safer. However, if you read the proposal and the report, it is quite clear that the issue of the police's working environment has already been highlighted in the past and that the Police Authority is actively working on these issues. In addition, the Final Report of the Bluelight Investigation is prepared, including proposals to instruct an authority to produce a basis that comprehensively highlights the vulnerability of police officers to crimes in the performance of their duties. In our opinion, therefore, there is no reason for Parliament to make any such announcements. Just break in already open doors. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-H4eCXcht6zcPgM8cYBkg2H	Frau President! The report we are debating now deals with the Government's proposal for enhanced employee protection for police workers. A unanimous committee proposes that the bill be approved. On several points, however, the government has not taken sufficient account of the views of the consultative bodies. We therefore have a common reservation with the Christian Democrats in which we support Amendments Nos 1 and 2 in the Christian Democrats' accompanying motion. I would like to take this opportunity to ask for the approval of reservation 2. As the proposed regulation is designed, screening of interviewees is permitted only at hearings held at the premises of the Political Authority or the Security Service. We believe that this is an unreasonable restriction. Hearings may also take place in other places, for example in a police car when a crime has been committed. The fact that the possibility of body-searching interviewees is limited to the authorities' own premises may mean that some of the risks that led to the proposals in the proposal from the outset remain. The right to visit should therefore be extended to more places. We also believe that authorities other than the Police Authority and the Security Service should also have the right to carry out body searches by interviewers. This could include other law enforcement agencies such as the Finnish Customs Agency, the Swedish Ecocrime Agency and the Coast Guard. It should then also be possible for other than a police officer to carry out the body search. Police officers in external service operate in a vulnerable environment. It can be about exposure to violence in connection with interventions, but also about policemen being subjected to various forms of threats and pressure. Early on Saturday morning, a hand grenade exploded in Uppsala in a staircase where a policeman lives. It is an example of how accelerating gang crime further sharpens the seriousness. It is therefore important that the vulnerability of police officers to offences in the performance of their duties is highlighted and that the government returns with proposals to make the working environment for police officers in external service safer. It is therefore gratifying that a, possibly slightly motley, committee majority proposes that the Riksdag address an announcement to the government on this particular matter. The fact that the Moderates support a Left Party motion in the area of justice is not commonplace, but today it happens.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-82	Madam President, I would like Today, the proposal for enhanced employee protection for police workers is being debated. There is a great deal of agreement in committee that these are important issues that should be highlighted by broad consensus, as illustrated by the fact that many of the reservations that have been received are about extending what the government is now proposing. We can see in a longer perspective. We will consider many proposals next year to improve the situation for Swedish police officers. These are measures that the government has not yet taken. Madam President, I would like Today, gang crime is a threat both to society and to those charged with prosecuting criminals. One priority is that there must be more police officers in order for us to be better able to combat this type of crime. If we are to succeed in this, the upgrading of the police profession needs to continue, mainly in the form of higher salaries, so that more people stay in the profession, more are attracted back and more people choose to study to the police. But the police profession suffers from much more than a historically poor wage development. This is not least about the security of police officers. The Police Association has conducted a study showing that threats and violence have become more common in the last two years. Violence is more subtle, and nearly one in ten police officers report that their profession has been the cause of threats to loved ones. It is too easy today to find out information about police officers and their family members. The security of police officers needs to be placed at least as high on the political agenda as the goal of more police officers. It is the duty of politicians to protect those whom we expect to stand at the front and do the job. For the Police Authority to be able to carry out its mission, police officers need to be given the necessary tools. The State shall ensure that those who commit crimes with immediate effect are removed from the street. There should be no room for compromise. The government has presented the bill for enhanced employee protection for police employees. It proposes some improvements, but that is far from sufficient. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have previously proposed simplifications for police officers. It is about carrying weapons outside the service, about zero tolerance of insults to police officers, about easier access to protected information and about being anonymous in investigations and reports related to organised crime. The government and its representatives in Parliament have not yet seen the need for such measures for police security, but in view of the developments we are seeing today, I wonder whether this is still the government's position. There is also a lack of tangible action by the government in relation to previous announcements. For example, the issue of increased compensation for violations must lead to legislation. Madam President, I would like In connection with this proposal, the Left Party has made a proposal that the vulnerability of police officers to crime needs to be reviewed and that the working environment needs to be improved. On the basis of the Left Party's proposal, the Riksdag addressed an announcement to the Government that the Government should give an appropriate authority the task of producing a basis that comprehensively highlights the vulnerability of police officers to crime and then returns with proposals for measures to make the working environment safer for police officers, mainly in external service. The Swedish Democrats always support good proposals regardless of the party membership of the party that makes the proposal. I hope that the government and the other parties will continue to do the same for the proposals of the Swedish Democrats. The party that excludes cooperation with an individual party does not just deviate from getting to a well-functioning parliamentary work. That party also deviates from democratic work. The party membership is then more important than making a change for the better. Ultimately, this is about respect for democracy. If we can jointly implement political proposals that are broad security-building, this must take precedence over party-politically built-in mistrust. We Swedish Democrats are prepared to work unconditionally to give all hard-working policemen a safer everyday life. I support the committee's proposal.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-96	Madam President, I would like Sweden is about to lose its grip on the escalating violence, and for many of the criminals all the bars have been released. We are constantly faced with this news: shootings, bombs, stonings, spittoons, threats and violence. Police and fire brigade and ambulance personnel have to endure an enormous number of incomprehensible attacks. The KD believes that efforts to combat violence must become tougher. The punishment for possessing weapons and bombs must be considerably tougher. The person concerned with such things does not deserve to move freely in society. Tougher penalties should also apply to those who throw stones at police cars or ambulances. Madam President, I would like We are debating here and now the bill for enhanced employee protection for police workers. Police are an important resource for ensuring and maintaining the security of our society. It is therefore important for society to make it clear that threats and violence against police officers are not acceptable, that legislation clearly gives rights to the police to maintain their and others' security, that those who practice threats and violence against police officers are prosecuted, and that measures are implemented to make the police's working environment safer. The proposals in the bill are moving in the right direction. The Social Democrats and the government should be honoured for that. They have proposed three measures aimed, inter alia, at strengthening the protection of police officers and certain other employees of the Police Authority and the Security Service. Nevertheless, I would like to highlight further important measures linked to today's bill that need to be implemented in order for police officers to feel safer during their work. Madam President, I would like The bill proposes, among other things, that a police officer should be allowed to search the interviewer in connection with interrogations if the interview is held at the premises of the Police Authority or the Security Service. The Christian Democrats share this view but are surprised that the government has not taken in the referrals submitted by several authorities, which say that the law is inadequate. It is not only the Security Service and the Police Authority that conduct interrogations, and they do not always take place in their premises. The security of government employees is of the utmost importance, and threats and violence are increasing. If there is to be adequate employee protection for all employees in law enforcement agencies, the search needs to be extended to considerably more agencies. The Swedish Tax Agency, the Finnish Customs and the Swedish Economic Crimes Agency are some examples. Not least in order for the joint work of the government against crime, which the government considers important, to function as painlessly as possible, it needs to be possible to search people in the premises of other authorities as well. And it needs to be able to be carried out by staff other than a policeman. The proposed regulation may also prevent a policeman from conducting interviews as closely as possible to the offence. If a search cannot be carried out before the interview is held in, for example, a police car, the risks that justify a legislative change from the outset remain. We also share the opinion of the Political Authority that it is a strange construction that a person who shows up for an interview can refuse to visit and thus deviate from the interview and count as missing. The hearing period and the obligation to remain should be counted from the time a person appears in the building in which the hearing is to be held. It will also be possible to search an interrogator by force. The Christian Democrats proposed a new law, obstruction of justice, which aims to get to the person who sabotages police investigations in various ways. To appear for questioning but refuse to be searched should be something else that could fall within the scope of such legislation. On the basis of what I have now explained, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 3. Madam President, I would like We share the view of the majority in committee and agree with the announcement that the government should give an appropriate authority the task of producing a basis that comprehensively highlights the vulnerability of police officers to crime and then return with proposals to make the working environment safer for police officers in external service. On the basis of the Christian Democrats' motion and proposals, as I explained earlier, I would like, as I said, to ask for the approval of reservation 3, but I would also like to support the announcement by the committee.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-110	Madam President, I would like In this House we often discuss the way to the goal, but there are several answers to how to strengthen security in society. A very important part is to ensure that those who work with this daily have the necessary conditions. The proposal put forward is to strengthen the security of police officers. Madam President, I would like The threats to police employees have increased in recent years. The homes of individual policemen have been attacked. Police houses have been exposed to explosions, and there have been times when interrogations have carried weapons during interrogation. The police's employee protection and working environment is not only important for the police who work, it is important for the whole society. In order for police officers to dare to do their job and to keep the employees, greater security is needed. Madam President, I would like At interrogations, the interviewer is often alone with the interviewer. Before the hearings, it is of great importance that the person conducting the hearing feels safe in the situation for the hearing to be held in a good way. To then not be able to do a body search before the interrogation is a mistake. How can a person feel safe with a uncertainty hanging in the room about the person being questioned actually carrying a weapon? How are we to ensure that the interrogator does not avoid asking certain questions because he or she feels anxious or afraid of the consequences that may result? This is what we are trying to correct in this proposal by giving the police the opportunity to search the body before the hearings begin. Madam President, I would like Another point concerns qualified protection identity, which means that fictitious personal data are entered into government documents and registers. The purpose of this is above all for the police to be able to carry out hidden reconnaissance work. This has in the past been limited to police officers, but it is important that business specialists such as economists and psychologists used to assess transactions or make assessment calls can also be covered by this law. Madam President, I would like This proposal also gives the Swedish Security Service the opportunity to access information from the health care system that assesses threats to, for example, foreign heads of state, heads of government and ministers visiting Sweden. The law is written so that this can happen even today, but not for foreign protection persons. These are isolated cases, and data will be protected by the strong secrecy of the Security Service. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-118	Madam President, I would like We are debating today something that may seem to be a detail of the interrogation process, namely the right and the possibility of body searches. However, we all know in this House that this is based on a constitutionally extremely important issue – the security of police officers. It is about the ultimate protection of society against crime that affects our society and our citizens. We must not hesitate here. Before I speak on the very proposals contained in this report, let us go back to the situations that arise when the crimes occur. Even then, it is incredibly important that we do everything we can to ensure that police security is in focus. Some time ago, we debated and decided in this House on a number of measures to protect blue-light personnel. Some of these decisions form the basis of today's report. We need laws that we decided on at the time and that we decide on today to clarify the seriousness with which society views this type of crime. Madam President, I would like One might wonder what is causing some people to attack blue - light personnel. Perhaps it is a sign of a lack of trust in society when even the one who pulls out to save a person's life is considered to represent a central power that one does not trust. Perhaps some may feel that they have so little to lose that even what the rest of us see as essential is of no value to them. Perhaps they go so far as to also be prepared to commit violence against police officers even in an interrogation situation. Maybe some people don't understand the seriousness. Perhaps some are driven by a desire to destroy and create chaos. Bit by bit we are closing the holes for these criminals, and we are doing so to protect our police officers who are protecting our citizens. In other countries it has gone much further than in Sweden, not least in the Black Live math movement. We are aware of that. If groups and people feel so badly treated by the police and by society at large, we must face it in several ways. Legislation is one way. A society that works and creates opportunities for all is a crucial factor. Madam President, I would like The Center Party believes that in order to secure the security of persons who are to interrogate and search the body, it must be possible to do whatever crime the interviewer is suspected of. If there are reasons and circumstances in each individual case that speak for body visas, it should happen. The bill also suggests that if the interviewee shows resistance, the search may be carried out by force. This is a fundamental measure which may be one of the reasons why the possibility of a decision on enhanced protection identity is necessary. Not only police officers participate in the interrogations, but also other persons and functions within the authority. These may also need identity protection. I would also like to say a few words about the announcement addressed to the government by the committee. Yes– an investigator is today looking at the issue of the vulnerability of police officers to crime and how it can affect individual police officers. But the Center Party, like the majority in committee, believes that this needs to be broadened. An investigation should not only serve as a basis for assessing the right to compensation for violations, but also how to improve the external working environment of the police, as well as perhaps the environment in the day-to-day life of police officers when they are not on duty. Madam President, I would like What happened in Uppsala this weekend must not be repeated. A probable retaliation, probably by criminals, led to an explosion in a stairwell where a police officer lives. This, in my opinion, puts the finger at the heart of the announcement. What threats, acts of violence, and acts of revenge do our policemen run the risk of being exposed to? How do we deal with this together, quickly and effectively? In rounding off, I would like to say to those of you who are listening that we will not tolerate this happening again. We will not tolerate policemen being exposed when they work for our safety, whether in external service, during interrogation or when they are not on duty. Bit by bit we will close these loopholes. Today we clog one of them. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-129	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that the Committee on Justice is committed to health and safety at work and supports the Left Party's proposal to safeguard the working environment for police officers. Labour law and the working environment are extremely important issues for the Left Party. There must be no deterioration in job security. That's where our red lines go, and the government knows it. We will not accept that you run over the unions and impair labour law. We in the Left Party will stand up for all of Sweden's employees at all workplaces, whether you are a police officer or assistant nurse. Madam President, I would like The police have an extremely stressful job, and it is very important that the police receive the necessary protection. That is why the Left Party and the whole committee, apart from the government parties, want to see an investigation that highlights the vulnerability of the police to crimes in the performance of their duties and how such crime affects individual police workers. The police are an important part of maintaining the rule of law, and it is of great importance that the agency is an attractive workplace that takes good care of its employees. The TV programme The crime of the week today says that the situation is not at all good with the police when it comes to the working environment. It is mentioned that there are massive shortcomings in dealing with sex crimes against children and that police officers lack knowledge. Staff are on their knees, and preliminary investigations are discontinued because there are not enough pictures of vulnerable children. Over a thousand cases of sexual offences against children are high in the police because there are no staff and the working environment is too bad. About 200 of the cases are described as priorities, which means that the suspected perpetrator is actively believed to be looking for children or having access to children of his own. The police need more resources, and it's clear. Here the government has failed. The police must also give a much higher priority to the working environment and ensure that experienced staff are kept who are doing a really heavy job investigating child pornography offences. This is where the police have failed. There is a need for significantly greater IT skills in the police, IT tools and further training. That is all that the police regions are witnessing today is missing. Therefore, child pornography offences are being high or pre-trially closed. I have raised the issue many times, and I do it again, namely that the working environment and the IT environment are crucial. The police have an extremely difficult job. It is complex, difficult and challenging. Many people seem to think that the police's work is all about stopping gang criminals and shootings. When the focus is only on violent crimes, other crimes are forgotten. There is no contradiction in the fact that police officers in external service are at great risk of being subjected to threats and violence both during intervention and for revenge purposes, and there is a need for action. But then police officers working in internal service to detect sex offenders on the Internet must not be forgotten or down-priorityd. Unfortunately, that is what I see today, and it must be changed. I support the proposal in the report.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-141	Mr President, I would like to The report would have been entitled "Enhanced employee protection for police workers" but with the addition and more. We are dealing with two central but diametrically different issues. Let me start with the police work environment. Through our cooperation with the government, we in the L iberals have ensured that there will soon be not only a Swedish record in the number of police employees but also a Swedish record in the number of police employees per capita. I would really like to thank the police officers who are doing an amazing job, and I welcome another 3 000 who are currently in the education system so that we can achieve the necessary increase in the number of police officers. It is also a crucial issue of health and safety at work. When we ask cops what they want, they want more colleagues. The working environment happens to be the Swedish reality. When we ask cops what they expect from their work environment, they highlight a few things. One is the relevant penalty for gross lifestyle crises. People who commit serious crimes should be locked in and not be able to run out into the street too fast. Reasonable punishment for lifestyle crises is a strong desire. Furthermore, they want reasonable arrest rules so that people who are convicted cannot go out on the street and commit new crimes while standing in line to go to prison. It is also a strong wish from the Swedish police. Police officers would like young people with problems to be met by a more relevant and ambitious social service with earlier and clearer efforts so that the kids will not ruin their own and others' lives at a furious pace. The police also want young people who are drifting around without hope for the future but with seemingly eternal leisure time to get into work. Furthermore, the police want wide-ranging efforts in drug treatment so that people with enormous drug abuse problems who are not locked in until the worst cases are forced treatment, which is fully permitted by the law on the care of addicts, are not repeatedly faced. Just look at these drunk drivers and drug drunk drivers that the police stop time and time again. What's going on? No punishment. It'll be a month or maybe two months and then they'll be out again and soon they'll drive a human to death. It's the police's work environment. Not to mention mental illness. The police are allowed to travel shuttle traffic to various bridges and railway tracks where people are prepared to kill themselves. These people are taken to the hospital, and five hours later the police are allowed to go back to the same place and save the same person from another attempt to end their lives. This is the working environment that we really should be doing something about. Liberals agree that the police should have not only extensive rules to search people suspected of crimes, but also interrogators who are heard for information about what they know about, for example, serious organised crime. This is an important step for the police's working environment. The second issue, which is also about meeting the reality that exists, is that more people should have a protection identity than just police officers. It's important. If necessary, these are unconventional methods of breaking serious organised crime. In this report, we are opening up an opportunity for more people to work with protection identity, that is to say, to perform with a completely different alias in order to get into the environments that are absolutely necessary to break into in order to crack serious crime; a working environment for the police, a living environment for all people in the country. It is a major step, and I am very pleased that a united committee and a united parliament support this. This is one of the biggest steps we have taken for a very long time to reduce crime and increase security. Mr President, I would like to The last thing we go on to do is that health professionals should provide information to the Security Service. It is not self-evident because it may mean that fewer people go to health care for help, but it is absolutely necessary in the case of people with severe delusions and others who engage in terrorism. I support the proposal in the report.
i-EmXy6bwTNFFm5S8phH67Aa	Mr President, I would like to The Government proposes in a bill that the Deposit Act be repealed. As a consequence, depositors must instead apply to conduct banking or financing operations. In practice, this means a ban on so-called ‘deposit activities'. Non-deposit-guaranteed companies offer a higher interest rate on deposits in their savings accounts relative to what is obtained from traditional banking or credit institutions. In practice, this means a ban on this type of activity. Generally speaking, one can say the following about bans. It is usually the easiest answer to all kinds of problems. But political problems are rarely simple in reality. They are complex and multifaceted and require in-depth analysis. If that analysis lands in that a ban is the best way forward, that is one thing. However, if the analysis is inadequate or incomplete, it will have been based on false premises. That is exactly what we can see in the government bill, which has landed in a disproportionately dramatic response in the form of a sweeping ban. I note that the Swedish Democrats have a documented history of standing up in the Swedish Parliament for strong Swedish consumer protection. We did so with regard to the right to move, where we were the first party to criticise the exorbitant removal fees. We see the result of that work now that the country's bank and insurance savers will receive reduced and reasonable removal fees. In our Committee motion in the Committee on Finance, we have a number of proposals which would in various ways further strengthen consumer power in the banking and insurance markets. In addition, my colleagues in the Committee on Civil Liberties are pushing a number of similar proposals in the same direction. Having said that, we are not only sceptical but against the ban proposed by the government in this proposal for a number of reasons. Firstly, freedom of choice will be reduced for those savers and consumers who wish to achieve any return on their cash resources, on their savings. The options that will remain after the government ban will be unregulated loans between private individuals, zero interest on savings accounts or speculation on the stock market. This is a central issue that the government has forgotten or neglected to analyse in its impact assessment. Contrary to the Government's ambition, the proposal will lead to increased risk-taking in people's private finances because we will see a re-allocation of cash to risky assets. The deposit business of the non-deposit guarantee companies is a market with a turnover of approximately SEK 1.5 billion. With the government's ban, this money must be placed somewhere else, and then the question is where it goes. Some of the money will go straight to speculation on the stock market, so contrary to the Government's ambition, the proposal will lead to increased risk in the household balance sheet. The proposal is therefore directly counterproductive to what it says it wants to achieve. If we send the bill back here today and the government is given the opportunity to analyse it again, I think it will come to the same conclusion as the Swedish Democrats, namely that this is a disproportionate intervention and a disproportionate response to the problem described. Secondly, the cost of the government's ban will be passed on to the individual consumer in the form of a loss of interest income and a deterioration in the diversity of financial products. Thirdly, no one knows in advance what will happen to the deposit rates of traditional banking and credit institutions. As the government itself notes, competition in the deposit market is deteriorating as a consequence of the Government's proposal. I believe that competition not only deteriorates but is de facto eliminated by the government because competition disappears from those companies that have upward pressure on deposit rates. It also removes the incentives for traditional banking and credit institutions to maintain some kind of return on people's deposits. Having said that, the Swedish Democrats naturally welcome all the options that aim to increase transparency and strengthen Swedish consumer protection. We believe, however, that the Government's proposal is completely wrong. For this reason, we have put forward two own proposals which respond in a much more accurate way to any doubts and also to the views expressed by the IMF. Depositors today have a responsibility to provide consumers with the necessary information to enable them to make well-informed economic decisions. We want to strengthen the obligation to provide information. It is possible to do so in many different ways, but we believe that a crucial part of this is to look at deposit accounts without deposit guarantee in terms of an investment rather than a traditional saving because of the slightly increased risk. In order to clarify these differences between account types for consumers in an educationalally illustrative way, we believe that the term "saving account" should be exclusive to deposit guarantee accounts and that non-deposit guarantee accounts should be renamed "risk accounts". That is one of our proposals. The second is to strengthen the obligation to provide information and to increase transparency by regulating the provision of information to the consumer. You can do that in several ways. What is important is that the consumer is provided with a standard wording that is uniform and clear and removes certain doubts in order for the consumer to be able to take advantage of the information that savings accounts have a different risk profile. We have a proposal in our motion for such a standard wording, but it is of course up to Finansinspektionen or any authority that the government chooses to formulate it in its own way. Mr President, I would like to This is what I mean – to provide the consumer with the means to make well-informed and rational economic decisions – is the task of politics in this context. But in the next step, as politicians, we must trust that people are capable of doing so. I believe that the Swedish democrats' motion responds very accurately to the doubts that exist, while safeguarding freedom of choice and giving people the opportunity to take control of their destiny in their private economy. I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-173	Mr President, I would like to The report under debate is about strengthening consumer protection in the deposit market. The aim is for ordinary savers to have the security to avoid seeing their savings suddenly fail. Most of us have a relationship with a bank that is about having an account with the bank, usually a savings account, where our salary, pension or other income ends up. From that account we make our payments for rent, food and other purchases. What you might not think about is that what we do when we have an account with a bank is that we lend money to the bank. It is probably more common to keep track of the reverse – that the bank lends money to us, not infrequently for a dwelling, for which we then pay interest to the bank. But when we deposit sums in the bank, for example on our regular payrolls, it is therefore a question of lending money to the bank – for the bank so-called deposits. For this, the bank pays interest to the depositor. The banks, in turn, use the money they borrow to do business and investments that will give the bank profits. But sometimes things don't turn out the way they planned. Banks can end up in financial crises or bankruptcies. Suddenly, the bank can't pay back the money we've lent to it. For this reason, there is something called deposit guarantee. The deposit guarantee means that the money we deposit on the banks is guaranteed to be paid back to us. It is the state that guarantees and accounts for that payment. The banks assume their responsibilities by paying a fee for it to the state, much like an insurance policy. In addition to the deposit guarantee, banks and other credit institutions are also subject to high equity requirements and are subject to constant supervision by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. These safety rules exist to protect consumers and to secure the savings of ordinary people. But, Mr President, these rules do not cover what is called deposit-taking companies. When a consumer lends money to a deposit company, there is no deposit guarantee. Sweden has been criticised by the International Monetary Fund for the fact that the absence of deposit guarantees in depositors may damage confidence in the deposit market. The different rules for banks and depositors also prevent competition from taking place on a level playing field. The knowledge of deposit guarantee is an important consumer issue, but despite its great importance, people do not always have that knowledge. The proposal is now because we should not have depositors in that way. Depositors may either be wound up or apply to become banks subject to these important rules. This is ultimately a matter of responsibility. When it blows on the financial markets, it is always ordinary small savers who are affected, and the bill finally always lands in our, the common's, knee. In order to create healthy markets and protect consumers, we now step up in advance and thus avoid having to clean up afterwards. I support the committee's proposal and reject the motion.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-183	Mr President, I would like to We live in an unpredictable world, to say the least, in times when much is put on end. We are in a pandemic that takes life, destroys economies and societies and pushes development back. Conflicts and other global challenges require a common approach. We are now going to discuss the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the United Nations, a year of meaning like this when the UN celebrates 75 years. It is not exactly a young baby anymore, but an experienced organization with a lot of flaws that we now have to take on and reform together. We see an increasing call into question of international systems and multilateral solutions, which undermines the opportunities for joint responsibility. For us, this sense of joint international responsibility is absolutely crucial, not least in our relationship with the UN. Mr President, I would like to The UN has been, is and will be the backbone of international systems and central to a rule-based world order. This underlines the important role of the UN in dealing with conflicts in the world. But there is a lot to do; there are some flaws. Thank you very much for the preparation in committee and the discussions on the future of the UN and, not least, for the President's seminar on the future of the UN, which was held in parallel with the committee's preparatory work. I shall begin by requesting approval of the Moderates' reservation number 1. What we do at home, at the kitchen tables and on our own street, plays a role in this critical phase of the pandemic. In the near future, vital decisions are decided, but it is not close to itself. That is why we are lifting our eyes today and emphasising the importance of pursuing reforms of multilateral systems and organisations. It plays a role in global crises such as pandemics. Today, the focus is on the UN. UN Secretary-General António Guterres recently said: This is our 1945. And it really is. 2020 is something similar to what the world experienced in 1945. Mr President, I would like to The shift in the U.S. presidential post with Biden and Harris provides a good basis for reform of the very necessary multilateral systems on which Sweden, the United Nations, the WTO and the WHO, is so dependent on Sweden, the small, highly export-dependent country far up in the north, which requires good relations with others and which build security and security with others. The turn of the President is now once again giving the world's largest economy a driving role in the global world order, in order to modernise democracy and freedom, upgrade and become more relevant in the time we are in. That is the relevance we have tried to take on and take as a starting point in the moderate exercise. It is about relevance here and now and not with yesterday's solutions but with yesterday's experience to meet the challenges of the future together internationally. Mr President, I would like to Sweden will also in these times be a strong force for multilaterism, the strengthening of democracies, increased freedom and gender equality. Democracy and its driving forces are being challenged today from several quarters. Three decades after the collapse of communism in Europe, questions about the importance and meaning of democracy are still being asked at the head of the coin. Geopolitical tensions meet us in multidimensional conflicts, which is why solutions from all over society are needed, in collaboration with different actors. Here the UN can do much more, with the surrounding actors. The ability of the free world to act together is crucial in a time of increased major power conflicts and a changed geopolitical landscape, where China is increasingly a challenge, the United States has so far withdrawn and authoritarian forces have been given increasing scope to challenge international law. Now there are great hopes that this can be changed, but we cannot go back. Biden's not Trump. The Biden is not Obama either. In fact, times have also changed. But there is hope, of course. Let's not look back, let's look forward. Here, Sweden will also put on the leadership shirt in international contexts; this is a necessity. Sweden should also be a strong force in the reform of the various UN systems and in the UN systems. We elected representatives here in Parliament can put a great deal of effort and work together for this. We shall be a nail in the eye and overcome inefficiencies and corruption and, in coalition with the world's democracies, defend human rights issues and the rule of law. When the international conflict landscape changes character, Sweden will demonstrate, through action and action and with a clear future agenda, that this requires reforms and that the systems that have been established for 75 years are developed. Then we cannot sit back and must be at the forefront. Sweden has a strong tradition of involvement in the UN systems. Over the years, many Swedes have participated in important efforts for peace and security worldwide, under a UN flag or in a UN Basque country. Sweden is also a major contributor to UN systems and has an important role to play in safeguarding transparency, anti-corruption and the promotion of reforms. The ability of the Security Council to reach a consensus on several of the difficult challenges facing the world today has proved completely inadequate. A fundamental challenge for the reform work in the UN is the built-in freezes in the Security Council. In addition to the global pandemic, which affects everyone, 11⁄2 billion people are also living with great concern in unstable or conflict-affected countries or countries where criminal violence is very common. This places entirely new demands on international crisis management, which is more complex and unpredictable. By going into coalition with the world's democracies and protecting human rights issues and the rule of law, Sweden can also put a clearer pressure not least on countries that receive Swedish aid to act responsibly in the UN systems. This applies not least to the conditions in the Human Rights Council, where we should make demands of democracy for membership. Where Sweden provides core support to UN agencies, a clear reform agenda should be included. Sweden should also be the driving force for an increased focus on the review and follow-up of the activities of the UN agencies. At the same time, the global goals make clear demands on the UN to pursue its own reform efforts in order to set an example. It is an important signal of both credibility and mobilization. Violation of women's rights is one of the biggest obstacles to gender equality and the development of democracy and the economy in the world. UN systems must strengthen their ability to identify and develop strategies to address new transnational threats such as terrorism and organised crime. Democracy as we know it is what we like best. It enables everyone's equal and broad engagement. We say this about the UN too: the UN is the best thing we know, but it is absolutely not perfect. The UN came into existence in a completely different time, yes, almost a completely different world, but the driving force was the same as we have here in the Swedish parliament: We want a better future. It drives us as parliamentarians and, of course, also the UN then, now and in the future. We, the peoples of the United Nations are, as you know, the opening words of the United Nations Charter. And we, the elected representatives, are elected to represent the people. We are also needed to develop, improve and strengthen peoples' support and the UN of the future. The UN needs us elected representatives, and we need the UN, tomorrow's UN.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-205	Mr President, I would like to This year it is 75 years since the UN was founded. As we have heard before, this has been highlighted in many ways. The reason why the UN was resurrected as we see it today was, of course, the experience of World War II and the victories of World War II. It is often the victors who build their history. It was also a great wisdom to see that by working together and building a system of common rules we can all have the opportunity to operate in peace and freedom. That is also why the UN came to consist not only of the General Assembly and the Security Council, but also of other structures to secure economic conditions in the event of a crisis, such as the World Bank. In this way, a regulatory framework was created that would be open to all and would be based on a common valuation, which would be signed up to if you became a member. Eleanor Roosevelt played an important role in the Declaration of Human Rights. She was an important woman in that work. An important part of the lessons learned from the war was precisely about human rights abuses, abuse of minorities, abuse of those who thought and believed differently and denouncing the other as inhuman. Trying to build a common foundation there too was extremely important. It was a lesson from the first and second world wars and from other wars, past and ongoing. This year it is 72 years since that declaration was agreed. When we highlight the UN, it is essential to also highlight human rights. Today, we would like the world to really stand up for all the rights that are written down and the countries to stand up for all the commitments that they signed up to when they became members. After all, we are 193 members. But we can nevertheless see how human rights are trampled on, how conflicts are created and underpinned, and how democracy is eroded. The basic rules on which we would agree are, in fact, not agreed. The multilateral system is subject to considerable pressure from various actors, including attempts to reinterpret what the basic principles and declarations actually stand for. We must be part of the discussion, and we must build resilience and exert pressure in order for what is now going on to fail. An important part of the UN system is also the Secretary-General's three-track reform agenda. It is something which, of course, we also support. It is clear that the UN, which has 75 years on its neck, also needs to be reformed. It is important that this reform is not done simply by adding new bodies or missions to the system, but also by reforming the UN itself. We all hope that the Security Council will be able to return and that it will be able to regain the role it was supposed to have, but that requires everyone to be prepared to offer. So far, we don't see any sign of that happening. Of course we are positive, and it is clear from the committee's joint position that we would like to see the number of members of the Security Council increased and that we would like to see representatives of the African continent in the Security Council. The question of the balance between permanent members and the members elected is interesting and important. The question of elections has also been discussed in committee on a number of motions. It's about how we choose different organs. All 193 members have one vote. One of the latter creations, namely the Human Rights Council, has been a Council with, to say the least, incredible challenges at a time when human rights are being trampled on and when we see so many abuses being committed by members of the Council. It's challenging, to say the least. We looked with great interest at the outcome of the elections this year for the next parliamentary term. It is devastating to see the association elected mainly with China and Russia, but also Cuba as new members. It does not strengthen human rights, it strengthens the voices that block, it does not want a review of human rights in its own countries and it wants to redefine human rights. It is therefore important that we try to support the others who have also been elected, such as Ukraine, the United Kingdom and France. These are important voices that must be included, and we naturally hope that, under a new leadership after 20 January, the United States will be interested in entering into a counterweight to the authoritarian forces that are currently exploiting the vacuum that has been created. We are not going to help create a vacuum, but we are going to be clear voices that are reviewing and constantly discussing. Today, we have also had the pleasure of having been visited by those who, in all their assessments, are the rightful representative of the Belarian people. Svetlana Tikhanovskaya is in Sweden and has been to the Riksdag today. She is another representative of a people who do not have their rights satisfied and do not get their democracy, but is blocked by a dictator. Unfortunately, we hear several such voices around the world today, and that is why what we highlight in our reservation is important: Sweden's voice for human rights and freedom must be strong. I would like to hand over the report with a warm hand and ask for the approval of reservation number 3 in paragraph 1.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-219	Mr President, I would like to The UN was founded in 1945 and celebrates its 75th anniversary. It is an association of 193 member nations that contributes to a rule-based world order for peace, security, conflict management and crisis management and affirms human rights. The UN is an intergovernmental organisation made up of independent states and plays a major role in the promotion of peace and security. In recent years, however, the UN has increasingly weakened as the five permanent countries of the Security Council do not reach consensus, use the right of veto and block UN joint efforts to promote peace, stability and respect for human rights. Russia and China are often in the same direction as the United States, France and Great Britain stick together. Own geopolitical and economic interests take precedence over efforts for peace, crisis management and the resolution of armed conflicts. Mr President, I would like to Some of the UN's major decisions in recent years are Resolution 1325 and the implementation of Agenda 2030. The UN is a unique and important organisation that brings together the world's states to work for peace and security in the same way. This year the UN is celebrating its 75th anniversary. It is worth paying attention and celebrating, but it also calls for discussion on the organisation's work ahead. While the UN contributes in many ways to a more peaceful, safer and fairer world, it is an organisation with major problems. Sweden is a member of the United Nations next to a number of countries, many of which have a view on democracy, international law, corruption and human rights that differ significantly from our own. Mr President, I would like to Moreover, the UN Security Council has all too often failed in its capacity to act when the most important values were at stake. The Security Council did not move to stop the genocide of the Islamic State terror group against the Christian minorities of Syrians and Chaldeans, as well as Yazidians in Iraq in 2014. Several attempts to adopt resolutions in the UN Security Council against regimes that commit crimes against humanity have been blocked by Russia and China, although the international community has an obligation to intervene with the principle of responsibility to protection. The UN is too paralysed because of the right of veto in the Security Council. Other examples include the situation in Libya, Ukraine, Yemen and the ongoing war between Armenia and Azerbaijan on the Nagorno-Karabakh region. Fellow believers and allies are allowed to actively aggravate and prolong armed conflicts around the world, where thousands of innocent people are killed and injured, forcing thousands of people to flee. Mr President, I would like to In order for the UN to be able to show decisiveness, the right of veto in the Security Council needs to be limited, and Sweden needs to work for this. It is also important for the UN to speed up its reform efforts. Without change, confidence in the UN will not remain. War crimes, crimes against international law, genocide, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity must be stopped and perpetrators prosecuted. Mr President, I would like to The General Assembly and its committees must also be modernised and streamlined. There are clear shortcomings in the work of the UN Human Rights Council, mainly because the Council is made up of Member States that consistently violate human rights itself, the Council is appointed to defend. Sweden should play an active role in the reform of the UN system and work towards the introduction of specific criteria for a country to have a seat in the Human Rights Council. Mr President, I would like to It has been 20 years since the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. It was the first time that the Member States acted to introduce a comprehensive gender perspective into the UN peace process. In countries undergoing or undergoing war and disaster, women are particularly vulnerable. Sweden must therefore demand that UN Resolution 1325 be forcefully updated in order to ensure that women have influence in peace work and in the planning work carried out following a peace agreement. Strong action is also needed to prevent the large extent of sexual abuse that is taking place in various conflicts around the world and to safeguard women's sexual and reproductive health. The EU can do more, and here Sweden has an important responsibility to work towards compliance with the resolution. This includes compliance with the resolution in all conflicts in which the Union is involved. There must also be zero tolerance of sexual abuse and other crimes among UN personnel, both uniformed and civilian. Mr President, I would like to The pandemic has seriously hampered efforts to reach the 2030 Agenda targets. The Coronandem has been devastating for Europe and other parts of the world both in terms of health and the economy. However, the world's low and middle-income countries are at risk of being hit even harder. Here, of course, the UN has a great responsibility to coordinate efforts and mitigate the consequences of the pandemic. Even before the pandemic, progress in reducing and eradicating world hunger and poverty had halted. It is now necessary to push ahead if we are to achieve the global targets for 2030. It is a question of solidarity, of humanity and of standing up for human dignity. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a faithful UN-led operation and provides military assistance if necessary. We are also a major contributor. Sweden will continue to contribute to peace-keeping, security promotion and conflict prevention efforts within the UN and promote reform work within the organisation. The Security Council has unique powers and can adopt resolutions that are legally binding on all UN Member States, such as sanctions and peace efforts. Lockings in the UN Security Council and the administration or representation of UN agencies by states that do not meet human rights standards are not acceptable. Therefore, the Christian Democrats believe that Sweden should work to restrict the right of veto in the Security Council and to reform the UN Human Rights Council and that the UN Security Council should work to ensure that whistleblowers can act without hindrance when they encounter errors within the organisation and work to improve the protection of UN experts and senters. With this, Mr President, I support the Christian Democrats' reservation 4 and the joint reservation 5, on which the Christian Democrats and the Liberals agree.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-239	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Robert Halef, for a committed speech on women's rights! But, Mr President, I heard in this commitment a statement which I thought I would have to give Robert Halef the opportunity to adjust, at least for the Minutes. I heard that Robert Halef spoke warmly for women's sexual and reproductive health, but I did not hear rights. I want to make sure that the Christian Democrats also want to stand up for women's rights to decide for themselves, so that it is not just about sexual and reproductive health but actually about rights. My question, Mr President, concerns clarification.
i-LLcsJ5xtpKZz1p1eG4a319	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kerstin, for the question! I mentioned the need for a comprehensive gender perspective, because we should see people as equal in all contexts, without any difference. For us Christian Democrats, one of the most important pillars of our principle programme is that everyone's equal, unique and inviolable value should be protected regardless of gender, sexual affiliation, skin colour, ethnicity, age and so on. There is no doubt that women should have equal rights. All humans are born free and are equal.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-243	Mr President, I would like to Should I interpret this as saying that the Christian Democrats are also behind what we are raising in all contexts, namely the SRHR, which means that it is about sexual and reproductive health and rights. This is the central issue in the discussion. We see in the global debate, Mr President, that there are many countries that think that health is going well, while the rights of women to decide for themselves over their body and the right to have a legal and safe abortion are not something that they think belongs there. That's why you like to shorten it to SRH. My question of clarification concerns this, in order to ensure that the Christian Democrats are also behind the rights and the SRHR as a whole.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-245	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kerstin! I totally agree with what you said. Women's right to their own body and women's right to abortion according to Swedish law we support. There are no differences in these matters. As I mentioned earlier, the Christian Democrats do not make a distinction between human dignity and rights based on gender, but we are all people and have equal rights. It is about sexual orientation, the right to equal pay and all kinds of rights. The Christian Democrats see no difference there, but stand behind it just like you. We had a seminar via the web about this the other day, where Kvinna till Kvinna and many other organisations participated and where I participated from the Christian Democrats. The issues you mentioned I raised warmly in the discussion.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-247	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations. Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the United Nations. Mr President, I would like to The UN is not a perfect organisation, but it has major shortcomings. Reforms are certainly needed in terms of both decision-making and increased efficiency, reduced corruption, better representativeness and adaptation to changes in the world since the UN was formed 75 years ago. But it's a little like they say about democracy, that it's the worst form of government in the world... if you ignore everyone else. The UN has major shortcomings and needs to be reformed, but it is the best global cooperation organisation we have. The United Nations is the backbone of the international system and is central to a rule-based world order. It is a world order that is increasingly called into question and challenged when the number of authoritarian regimes is growing, when multilateralism is abandoned and when democracy is declining in more and more parts of the world. The global challenges are becoming increasingly apparent in the shadow of the coronapndemine and in the face of the existential threat posed by climate change. Now more than ever, the UN is needed, and Sweden will continue with its historically strong commitment to the UN. The UN also has a crucial role to play in the management of conflicts in the world and in giving legitimacy to international crisis management operations. In order for the UN to be strengthened, we believe that further steps are needed for a reformed Security Council that is more effective and legitimately able to fulfil its role under the UN Charter and that it remains urgent to circumscribe the right of veto and completely abolish it in situations of mass abuse. We also remain in favour of an enlarged Security Council with increased geographical representation from Africa in the first place. As regards the rest of UN reform, UN Secretary-General António Guterres has launched a broad reform agenda with three main tracks: organisational issues, peace and security, development issues and the implementation of Agenda 2030. On organisational issues, the Secretary-General has announced, among other things, that he wants to make the UN more effective, increase transparency, simplify rules, improve the protection of whistleblowers, improve communication with the public and increase gender equality. A number of reports have been presented, including on women in the UN system. We and the government support the reform agenda, which aims to adapt the organisation to new global challenges. The government should work to modernise the UN and become strong and effective, including for the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. Mr President, I would like to In particular, the report encourages reforms aimed at strengthening the role of women in the UN system and welcomes the Secretary-General's ambitions in this area. It is important that Sweden continues to be a critical friend of the UN and a strong voice for a more effective and transparent UN. As far as the UN's work on human rights is concerned, this is done in a variety of forums. The report contains motions on the UN Human Rights Council, the so-called Human Rights Council. The Human Rights Council is facing a number of challenges, and states that are members of the Human Rights Council themselves have major human rights shortcomings. We believe, as in the past, that both Sweden and the EU must continue to be strong players in the Human Rights Council in order to promote respect for human rights. It is important for the credibility of the Human Rights Council that the countries included in the Council respect human rights.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-259	Mr President, I would like to In the short time available to me, I would like to focus in particular on the issue of the so-called United Nations Human Rights Council. I would like to call for the approval of reservation 5, which is a joint reservation by the Liberals and the Christian Democrats and concerns the Human Rights Council. Sweden was very active in creating this Human Rights Council in the United Nations. It was created in 2006. The idea was to take the work for human rights forward in the world. But it has become just the opposite, and we could see that from day one. The United Nations Human Rights Council is full of dictatorships, sadist regimes, human rights abuses and villains. They have completely crippled the work. It's gone so far that they're celebrating each other. This is really the only institution in the United Nations that is really going to seriously investigate human rights violations. But it has become the institution that defends human rights violations. The Human Rights Council is a disgrace to the international community. It is a travesty of rights work, and it is a playhouse for dictatorships. Unfortunately, Sweden also has a responsibility in this, because we were so driven to create this council. A selection of the countries in the Human Rights Council today, countries that will take place next year and countries that have been sitting there for the last two years: Venezuela, China, Cuba, Russia, Pakistan, Uzbekistan, Bahrain, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Nigeria, Congo-Kinshasa, Afghanistan and Eritrea. Is it these countries, these states and these regimes that we think should be responsible for the work on human rights in the UN? That's absurd. The only reasonable thing is to close this Human Rights Council and create a new body setting out criteria for participation. For example, ducks that hang oppositionists in cranes should not reasonably be responsible for human rights work in the international community. Similarly, countries that put electric shocks on independent journalists are not really appropriate to review human rights abuses in the world. But none of this is happening. Time and again, the villains and sadists are moving forward their positions within the international community. They have completely paralysed the work on human rights in the UN. Mr President, I would like to Two weeks ago, the Human Rights Council was going to review Belarus. We all know what happened in Belarus. Tens of thousands of people have been imprisoned, there has been massive violence from the regime and so on. Among the countries that took the floor at the time, the Belarus regime celebrated and praised Belarus' progress on human rights were Syria, Venezuela, Cambodia, China, Cuba, Egypt, Iran, Kuwait and Russia. They talked about the fact that all belarusians enjoy human rights and that the regime has made great progress and so on. This is a farce. We can't have this. Now, Sweden must seriously begin to advance its positions in order to demand a real change in the United Nations' human rights work.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-268	Mr President, I would like to Today, Parliament is debating and deciding on the first part of a major reform, often called Good and Close Care. The background is that for a long time we have found that primary care accounts for 17-18 per cent of the total health care. At the same time, we say and want primary care to be the base of the entire care. It is difficult for primary care to be a stable base when there are too few district doctors, too few district nurses and too few other professions working in primary care. I am therefore pleased that the government has initiated the investigation that is the basis for the major reform that has begun and on which I believe there is broad political agreement. For those who have worked for a long time in primary care, it probably feels a little uncomfortable. Investigations, government and parliament decisions come and go without improving the conditions for functioning primary care. This time we must ensure that the good intentions are realised. It's probably now or never. Let me first tell you why we need to succeed in the change and then what is needed to achieve it in the best possible way. Mr President, I would like to We have good care in Sweden. At the same time, however, we have a lack of accessibility and a lack of coordination. Many patients are forced to coordinate and hold health care together themselves. This applies not least to patients with chronic diseases and patients with multiple diseases and disorders. Municipal healthcare accounts for approximately 30 per cent of total healthcare but often experience shortcomings in coordination with other healthcare services. The role of health care in care for the elderly needs to be strengthened. Primary care employees are too few today and therefore have too many patients to take responsibility for. This means that not all patients get a fixed doctor's contact with a named doctor. The permanent contact you need with, for example, an occupational therapist or an elderly nurse will not be possible when the patient data is too large in relation to the employees that exist. Hospital care, for its part, experiences difficulties when primary care and municipal health care are not in a position to do their part. In the midst of all this, the patient is surrounded by a lot of care, but care that too often is not coordinated. It is difficult to build the relationship needed for the care to work in the best way. There is a patient safety risk when care is not coordinated, and it is really serious. We need to make a move and make changes that enable good, close and coordinated health care to strengthen health. But what is required if we are to make this a reality? We need to clarify the mission of primary care. We are doing this today through decisions on the basic tasks of primary care, among other things. I am pleased that the committee agreed to make a change to the Government's proposal in this part, so that the primary care mission also includes health promotion, rehabilitation and outreach activities. This is an important change on which the committee agrees. It also requires resources. We must allocate resources so that the mission can be fulfilled. More employees are needed if it is to be implemented. It also requires a ceiling for how many patients a doctor can have. If you have a limited list, it will be possible for the district doctor and the district nurse to provide coordinated and safe care. The opposite also applies. If you have too many patients, it becomes an impossible mission, and patient safety is at risk. The Government states in the bill that they will later present proposals that are linked to a fixed doctor's contact and the possibility to have a limited list and also to be able to set a ceiling for how many patients you have. Since we have not yet seen the next bill and do not know what it contains in concrete terms, we Christian Democrats are already proposing this by means of a motion. In this connection, I would therefore like to support reservation 17 in paragraph 12 on patient responsibility per fixed medical contact. In the Christian Democrats' motion on the Government's bill, we highlight several issues. These include what is happening during the pandemic that is going on and which is positive. There are such parts. When health care workers in the spring quickly changed to cope with the pandemic, they chose to remove some administrative procedures, which could be avoided because they were not linked to patient safety. Many health workers have told us how positive this was and is. We believe that there is reason to consider which of these administrative procedures needs to be reinstated and which we can refrain from permanently. If we can reduce the administrative burden on health professionals, we should do so immediately. It also has an effect on primary care and good and safe care. That is why we have proposed it. Take advantage of the experience of the professions during the pandemic! Finally, the Christian Democrats welcome the first bill for good, close and coordinated care. At the same time, we are making several proposals that we believe are necessary for this to be achieved. I would like to ask you to accept reservation 17 in paragraph 12.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-287	Mr President, I would like to Around us is now increasing the spread of the virus we have come to know as corona or covid-19, and the responsibility to keep our distance and take all measures to help the infection not spread further falls heavily on all of us. Now that we are sitting in this House, the announcement of 96 new deaths is reaching us; it is today's report. This is increasing avalanche, and it is very frightening. In this House, we have reduced the number of people to a minimum. We are also doing our best to ensure that the most possible work is done safely, which often means that it is done digitally. If we are now to help our heroes in health care and avoid infecting our loved ones and those of our loved ones who are less able to cope with the infection – and ultimately save lives – we must all take responsibility and understand that it is serious. Life has to live on completely different premises now than before. Only then can we look to the future and rejoice in what comes after that, for there is of course an end. But before that, we need to help each other and realize that this applies to all of us, not just some or some. In addition to covid care, the rest of the care needs to work. For a country like Sweden, with imbalances in the system as described by colleague Acko Ankarberg Johansson, it becomes more difficult to deal with the health debt that is then being prepared, i.e. the care queues that are being built on. That is why it is important, Mr President, that work on developing our primary care should continue. That is what today's debate is about. Let us first state that the government proposal is a step in the right direction and contains elements that we Moderates have long demanded. It provides a clearer definition of the tasks and basic tasks of primary care. There are parts we lack, and we look forward to this being extended. One might say that it is incomplete, but hopefully the continuation is something we can continue to agree on in the way we are in this bill. Mr President, I would like to For the most fragile and sick and for the most ill elderly patients, the greatest changes are required. Their need for continuity needs to be established, as well as their need for close care. The collective and coordinated management of the most fragile and ill is one of the greatest opportunities to improve the quality and effectiveness of patients' care. This requires, among other things, a more developed close care, such as primary care, more flexible and mobile home care and more of quickly accessible digital near care. Mr President, I would like to A major and far too common problem today is that many sick – often elderly, multi-sick and chronically ill – are forced to go to hospital emergency departments for things that could have been addressed closely, in their homes or in parts of primary care. Being directed to hospitals' emergency wards creates stress, waiting and anxiety for these fragile and ill people. In many other countries it doesn't look like this at all. Then why should it do this? Mr President, I would like to On some points, we Moderates believe that the reform is unfinished. Like many consultation bodies, we believe that the government needs to broaden the definition of primary care. We also propose the introduction of a system of care teams, primarily for the elderly, multi-sickness and people with chronic diseases. The permanent physician should be responsible for his listed patients and coordinate the healthcare and care required with multi-professional care teams. The fact that patients know their doctors creates safer patients and provides safer care. In addition, it is necessary to ensure that the further training of health care workers in health promotion efforts is made compulsory. Swedish healthcare must have a stronger focus on preventive health work, and its employees must have this competence. Our follow-up motion contains more proposals and, of course, we support all these as well as all our reservations. For time winning, however, I only apply for reservation 1. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a country where residents have become accustomed to healthcare queues; that is almost something of course. To then imagine that there are countries that do not have medical queues is for a Swedish something foreign. However, finally working to achieve a better balance in a system that is one of the world's most hospital-heavy is crucial in order to achieve better accessibility and better continuity. We therefore welcome the Moderates' proposal. It is a step in the right direction, but much more needs to be done.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-299	Mr President, I would like to It is a well-known fact that Swedish healthcare has good medical results. This is very positive and, of course, it needs to be protected in the future. At the same time, comparisons show that, despite the good medical results, current health systems in some parts do not meet the expectations of the population. Above all, it is about the lack of availability and continuity of care. The number of patients who have expected significantly longer than the time limit of the healthcare guarantee has increased since 2014. This is something that we take very seriously and that we have been pointing out in many contexts for a long time. Of course, more resources will be needed here, but major changes will also be needed in how to organise Swedish healthcare in the future. Mr President, I would like to Primary care plays a central role in the healthcare system, for this is where patients primarily turn for assessment, treatment or in some cases referrals to specialist care. Therefore, primary care is the hub of future health care. However, it should be borne in mind that the availability of primary care affects the patient's experience of care. Therefore, good access to primary care is a priority for us. Mr President, I would like to It is important that the management of primary care is based on patients' best interests; only then can we get a primary care worthy of the name. That is why we need to create compensation systems and stimulate quality development and innovation throughout the healthcare chain. These quality results must be measured and reported transparently. This may, for example, apply to patient-experienced satisfaction for each clinic at health centres. Here we can actually see England as a pioneer country. I have visited England and looked at how it works there. There, quality comparisons have been strengthened by, among other things, defining quality through three different approaches: efficiency, safety and patient experience. So medical outcomes, the safety of care and the patient's opinion are examined. The advantage of this is that it is simple, easy to see and measurable on all three levels. The interesting thing is that England has gone one step further. It says that publishing information at unit level is not enough. Hospitals and health centres have several doctors and sometimes several care teams, of which not all necessarily deliver equally high quality. In this sense, England has been a pioneer, and I am convinced that we in Sweden should go in the same direction. Here someone might argue that it is difficult to create reliable quality measurements, since doctors have different health weights, which would make comparison unfair. But this has not actually been the case in an English context, where quality measurements have been sufficient and risk adjusted according to research and follow-up. We believe that the patient has the right to be informed about the performance of professionals in the business and in the healthcare sector. Basically, it is about professionalism and trust in health care. That is why we believe, Mr President, that the quality of primary care should be strengthened and developed. A fixed doctor's contact is also important for patients. However, in order to enable good and patient-proof care, mandates with fixed medical contact in primary care must be delimited. A reasonable reduction in the number of patients per fixed doctor's contact may provide better conditions for individual doctors to be more accessible to their patients and, by extension, to offer good and safe care. It also gives the doctor the opportunity to control their work situation. A good working environment for employees in primary care is a basic prerequisite for primary care to be seen as an attractive workplace and therefore you want to work there. Only then can we have a safer supply of skills in primary care. Mr President, I would like to The future challenges of healthcare cannot be solved simply by providing more resources. Instead, a broad and long-term effort is needed throughout society to promote health and disease prevention. Primary care has an important role to play here. There is much to be gained from investing more in health promotion and disease prevention. The more people who can live with good health, free from disease, the better both for us as individuals and for society as a whole. Today, as you know, the conditions for good health are not evenly distributed within the population. However, with its great expertise and its vast spaces towards society, healthcare, and especially primary care, can influence others to work in a more health-promoting direction and contribute to reducing differences in health. It is actually the only option to move forward. We will not be able to meet the challenges of health care if we do not start working more with health promotion, and primary care will be the engine of this important work in the future. Mr President, I would like to I commend our reservation 4.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-311	Mr President, those of you who are looking at this, health workers who are currently working and working very hard with covid-19, all of us who must follow the recommendations harshly! It may be a bit sad to put your life on hold, but if we do it now it will be a brighter summer – I promise. Mr President, I would like to The primary care, the one you know where you call up your health care centre and can get an emergency period quite directly or can make a digital call with your health care centre, what should work, or when you have a fixed doctor's contact and do not hire a doctor who is replaced every time. We always talk about what the organization looks like when it comes to health care. After all, it is the regions that are responsible for care more than Stefan Löfven and the state are. Perhaps it is good to say so, because sometimes it may sound, among other things, from my colleagues in the Committee on Social Affairs, that it is the state that is in charge. In fact, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates rule in 13 of 21 regions, for example in Region Västra Götaland, Region Skåne and Region Stockholm. Mr President, I would like to Since entering Parliament in 2014, I have tried to highlight two issues that I consider to be extremely important. This is partly about equal or unequal care and partly about the lack of investment. There is too little effort on staff resources. The health gap is a major failure for the entire policy area, one might say. For example, men belonging to the 10 per cent of society with the highest income live on average nine years longer than men with the 10 per cent lowest income. For women, the difference is seven years. Your financial situation matters, and class is a health marker. We also have people with mental illness, who have a significantly shorter life span than the rest of us. The Left, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, which are a fairly new combination in certain situations, have in three different motions insisted that preventive work and rehabilitation should be part of the primary care mission. This is very important. We signed up and got the committee with us. It means a lot, I think, that prevention and rehabilitation should be part of primary care. It's pretty big, I'd say. Thank you, the Moderates, thank you, the Christian Democrats! Mr President, I would like to The left's intention is, of course, that primary care should reach out in areas with poor health with targeted interventions. Has the market's impact on primary care reduced health gaps? Has the freedom of establishment, the Freedom of Choice Act, benefited those with the least health? You can think about that. The free choice of care does not benefit the multisick, and we do not need more privatised care. We need care that stays together and is equal, and then market forces must be regulated in a different way than at present. Mr President, I would like to Major reforms affecting a country's health infrastructure need to be evaluated in order to see consequences. I have not seen any evaluation of the law on freedom of choice, and I do not believe that anyone here has done so. The problem is that we have a type of Wild West right now in Swedish sick care when it comes to private actors, and this is specifically in primary care. We have a free right of establishment for health care companies, a market for private health insurance and online doctors which penetrates through a completely unregulated health care market, and politicians are relatively passive. The Freedom of Choice Act allows private health care providers to decide where to open up their business. We do not think that this should be mandatory, as it is right now in primary care. Instead, we want to replace this law with well-structured and coordinated care, where patients' needs for care are at the centre and where freedom of choice is more about patients' freedom of choice, not companies. We therefore want the government to come back to us with a proposal that the law on freedom of choice should no longer be compulsory in primary care – reservation 16. Mr President, I would like to Well-being is currently suffering from staff shortages, which are expected to increase in particular in the case of older people, who are increasing in numbers. It's kind of connected. The key to coping with the labour shortage of care is to give employees good working conditions and influence over their work. After all, applause is not enough to keep the staff around. There is also a need for increased government control of resource and competence development and conditions to get the experienced staff to stay and do a good job, the job they have trained for. Targeted efforts are needed to improve health care staff conditions. There is a need for strong support for health care in the sparsely populated regions and active outreach in areas where, for example, health surveys are to be offered to people who are not otherwise reached by healthcare. Hospitals today are under a lot of strain. In the region that I live in, Stockholm, it has been a pure drain of the publicly driven care that has affected the large hospitals. A reform on enhanced primary care is needed and will hopefully lead to the creation of air in the systems. However, reform of primary care should not lead to the dismantling of other health care or to the continuation of the ongoing down-prioritising of the number of care places and intensive care places. When it comes to close care, we believe that it is so important that it is organised in a way that does not mean that family members become carers to a greater extent than they do today and cover up when health care is lacking. There is already an overburdening of relatives today. The Left Party is very hesitant that more sicker patients should be cared for at home. If this is the idea, municipal health care must be strengthened, both with resources and with skills. Everything else is to put the responsibility on the family. Although we think that contact with a doctor is a very important issue, it can also be a matter of a permanent psychological contact or a permanent contact with a nurse. There must be a national structure for which specialities a health centre should have. It should not be completely the same everywhere, but there must be room for local adaptation. But we want to ensure that there is equal – equal – care throughout the country. Therefore, we want the government to give the appropriate authority the task of identifying where the needs of primary care units and health centres are at their greatest and developing criteria for this. We need equality in the country and equality for individuals. We need to eliminate the health gaps, reduce the market's influence on healthcare and remove the cream files in healthcare – the sickest first!
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-331	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for your thanks! Let me repay you. When you see that you have similar proposals, it is wise in a committee to reconcile them so that they can become a reality. It is a wise working method. Each party is working out its proposals. If they coincide with something else, you can find common ground. It is in this sense that I want to hear further with Karin Rågsjö. I note that the honourable Member, like us Christian Democrats, believes that the state needs to take a firmer hold on health care. I have been pleased to note that in the budget proposal there is a request – an announcement from the committee from 2017 – for the state to review the division of responsibilities within the healthcare sector. The government notes that this has not yet been met. I hope that the government will come back in some way in the future.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-335	Mr President, I would like to I think we have to do it. With covid-19 we have had a very rapid awakening in terms of what it looks like. The Left Party absolutely wants crisis management. In the case of crises, the State must have a firm responsibility. There must be national crisis management in the case of national crises, which are precisely pandemics. I also think we need to look at the structure. The Left Party would have liked six major regions. It would be a way to make sure there is a little better flow in the whole thing. We will look at the question. The Left Party does not think it is functional as it is now. These are guidelines that are not being followed. It's about a lot in health care. We cannot have 21 different parts in Sweden that do completely different things. I think it's going to end in a disaster. As I said, we will look at the issue, which we think is very important. It's about how it's to be controlled. The question is not easy.
i-F3g96of8wh933j3DNrXroC	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for the announcement! All too often, when we discuss organisation, I hear from certain parties that this is something that we cannot do because reorganisation is difficult. I think that is the wrong approach. We need to see the problems that still exist today. This morning I met with patient representatives who again told me that it feels like the care and treatment you receive depends on the postal code you have. The regions are not always based on medical assessments or guidelines, but depends on the region's economy. This is not satisfactory since we have a coherent health law. However, it is promising that we can approach this issue together and agree that the current organisation is not working. We may not be sure what the goal is or what the new one should look like, but we must be prepared to make changes so that it will be better than it is today. The state also needs to take a clearer approach so that care is equal. As I said, I thank you for the information. This means that we have something to work on in committee in the future.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-343	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we will look over the question. It feels extremely important and urgent. However, as the honourable Member knows, there is a need for internal discussion in each party, even for those who, for example, sit in the SMR and perhaps have a different view on the matter. Now I picked up a hot potato. However, the Left Party will review the issue.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-346	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by pointing out that I am extremely proud of Swedish health professionals. Sweden is at a high level when it comes to results such as survival and the like. Flexibility has also proved to be great, not least during the pandemic, when it has quickly changed to meet others and, in some cases, completely new needs. In general, the staff in primary care also succeed very well with their mission. Swedish public health is quite good, and life expectancy has increased over a period of years. At the same time, of course, we see many challenges in order to be even better forward. Just as Acko Ankarberg Johansson was involved in the political debate for more than 20 years, it has been about the need to strengthen primary care and clarify its mission. A number of proposals and reforms have been decided, but at the same time, the regions may have experienced a deterioration in conditions. There are far too few people who feel that they have reasonable access to a general practitioner or have the opportunity to have a time when they need it. Gradually, care has been fragmented. Of course, this has not happened because you want to impair something, but rather because you want to help the patient. So the intentions have been good, but the result may not always have been as desired. Of course, everyone who works in healthcare strives every day to do the best for the care recipients. However, I would like to take an example from one of my acquaintances. Anders is a man my age. He has several diagnoses and described his immediate future like this: Tomorrow I'm going to the nurse to get a cold shot. On Thursday, I'm going to the AK nurse to get information about my medication, when they found something on a sample taken two months ago. On Thursday afternoon, I have a counselor's appointment, and next Tuesday I'm going to the stroke nurse. The next Thursday it's time for a doctor's appointment again – no wonder the head is spinning! Mr President, I would like to I think this highlights the problems of primary care. It is often organised according to the needs and competence of the activities and how the activities have chosen to allocate tasks among themselves. It is not organised according to the care provider's needs. This seems to me to be the essence of a person-centred care. In the best of worlds, care would of course be organised based on Anders and his needs. Most of his problems could reasonably have been handled with one or possibly two visits and not six if the care was gathered around him instead of going around in the care. After extensive investigation work, where Anna Nergårdh has done a fantastic job, we are now ready to decide on a direction for a close and accessible care – a primary care reform. We have a historic opportunity together to make this a start on a change work that can actually bring about a real change. The fact that we have jointly agreed to clarify its basic mission is a strength. Based on today's decision, we in Parliament can give the regions the conditions and define the direction for developing good and close care. Today's decision, however, will not solve all the problems as if by magic. There are, of course, challenges. I would like to mention some of them. Let me start with the skills supply. It is particularly important that there are sufficient specialists in general medicine and nurses. For us to succeed, of course, we need enough people to educate themselves, but also that working conditions and working conditions are of such good quality that we want to remain in the profession. In my own home region, almost half of the medical services of primary care are made up of staffet physicians. This is a serious problem, as it makes healthcare both more expensive and worse for citizens. Another thing I want to raise is digitalisation. Primary care must be able to offer its services both digitally and physically. Not least this in pandemic times it has become very clear. There is a great potential here to streamline the work and reduce the load. The development of online medical services in private shows that the population has a great need for digitalisation, and we must be sensitive to the needs of citizens. However, in order for digital care to be distributed according to the same principles as any other care, i.e. that those with the greatest need get help first and equally across the country, digitalisation in the public sector must take off. There is much more to be done here. I want to say something about continuity. The proportion of the population in permanent contact with a doctor must be increased by developing and strengthening that function. It is important that those who are in great need of continuity do not have to see different doctors constantly and repeatedly explain their situation. Of course, continuity with other staff categories, such as diabetes nurse, curator or whatever you need, is also important. Of course, it is also very important from the point of view of health and safety at work that every doctor has a reasonable number of patients to handle. The last thing I want to highlight is the resources. I am convinced that resources for primary care must continue to increase. A substantial first step is being taken with the EUR 3.3 billion that is now being allocated. But more will come, and it will be needed. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, I am very pleased that with a united committee we can make this decision today. With this, I would like to call for the proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-360	Mr President, I would like to Kristina Nilsson! The number of health centres operated specifically in the private sector increased by 82 per cent between 2006 and 2017. This represents about 43 percent of the total number of health centres. The welfare inquiry, which submitted the report Order and order in welfare, proposed that the current law on freedom of choice be repealed and replaced by a new law on a system of freedom of choice. The study suggested, inter alia, that the Act should provide for municipalities and regions to ensure that agreements concluded under the freedom of choice system contain conditions allowing for the termination of the freedom of choice system. In this case, the proposal of the investigation has not led to any government proposal whatsoever. My question, Mr President, is: Why?
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-361	Mr President, I would like to We have spent a great deal of time in this House and in many other contexts discussing forms of operation. But we may not have made so much progress by constantly pushing and wetting this with the most efficient mode of operation. It is important to build on the needs of citizens. Freedom of choice is important for citizens. For me, freedom of choice means that you can choose between public and private-run health centres, choose based on geography and what you have closest to or choose from where the doctor or diabetes nurse is located that you have the greatest confidence in. I think that's important. I don't really know what Karin Rågsjö is after when she asks about this. I think that 82% on a private basis sounds like a very high figure. I don't really recognize it. It is possible that this figure is from Region Stockholm. Maybe that's where it could be. It is more interesting to discuss quality for citizens than to discuss precise form of operation. Then, of course, I think we need to see the problem of private individuals choosing to establish themselves in areas where there may already be good access to primary care, rather than establishing themselves where the need is greatest. But I think that is a question that we have to work on solving in a different way.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-364	Mr President, I would like to Maybe I was a little unclear. It was about the increase in the number of private health centres. This number increased by 82 per cent between 2006 and 2017. Of course we all want to be able to choose a health centre. But now it's true that not everyone can do it. For example, in some places, there are only private health centres, there are health centres that are not functional or there are few health centres. We find freedom of establishment interesting. It should go after public health. In those districts and municipalities where there is very high morbidity, one should of course be able to control the establishment of health centres. We think that is an important issue. Otherwise, there is not real freedom of choice for patients, but rather freedom of choice for companies. The whole system of freedom of choice and the law on freedom of choice also seem very problematic, Mr President, when we look at the establishment of online doctors in certain districts, municipalities and so on. It becomes a problem with the law of choice when so many companies choose to establish themselves in places where health is good, where patients are not so ill and where the money can flow in another way. Unfortunately, that is the case. What I asked and still ask, Mr President, is why the study's proposals have not been examined in the report on order and welfare. It was a very good investigation that has not slipped further into any care at the Ministry of Social Affairs, as I can see.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-369	Mr President, I would like to I'm sure there's a good reason to look at that investigation again. It is possible that this will happen in the future, but I cannot answer that today. I think, like Karin Rågsjö, that freedom of choice is hugely important for the care recipients. I also agree that freedom of establishment is causing problems. But I think we need to think together about how we do what is best for the citizens and what the citizens want and want. I do not believe in a simple solution, for example, that it only changes the right of establishment. I don't think that would make things much better. But, as I said, it is a complex issue. This thing with the net doctors is a question in itself. I mentioned in my main speech that it clearly shows that there is a need for citizens. At the same time, Karin Rågsjö and I can certainly agree that it controls resources from the most multi-sick and fragile elderly to us who may be a little healthier and do not really have as much need. Of course it's a problem. I think that together we should work on this in the committee in an open and wise manner.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-372	Mr President, I would like to The Member of Parliament Kristina Nilsson said many important and wise things in her speech. I took note of what was about digital solutions, which are so obvious to us in many contexts. If I have a problem, I lift my mobile phone and try to find a digital solution. Many people think the same way when they need medical care. However, we have a problem today. Medical care should be needs-driven. At the same time, there are many solutions where it is difficult to see that gatekeeper function that we have built into the system, so that you know that whoever has the greatest need goes first. On the one hand, this is linked to the fact that we have so different compensation systems and fee systems in the country. It's not like someone's trying to use the system. But if it is possible to create an activity in a region that has fairly favourable conditions, this can be used for the rest of the country as well. There is an imbalance and uncertainty – and also economic inefficiency, I believe – in doing so. My question to Kristina Nilsson is this: is it not the time to consider some form of national framework for fees and allowances? It is not about deciding what the fee should be, but about understanding how different parts of the solutions for physical and digital visits relate to each other. Should we not have a national view of where you pay more and where you pay less to ensure that you steer towards needs-driven care?
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-375	Mr President, I would like to This is a very interesting question raised by Mr Ankarberg Johansson. We know what it looks like today with the steering. We have regional self-government. Decisions are made in many parts. The way replacement systems are to be rigged is extremely complicated. I myself have worked in health care for many years, and I have seen how the compensation systems that have been designed have governed health care in a way that those who launched the systems might not have really imagined. This is an extremely interesting but complex question. Of course, we need to look at it from the perspective of digitalisation. Then I don't know how it's gonna be with gatekeepers. I am not so sure that citizens need gatekeepers to such a very large extent. For example, I think it could work very well if I could make an appointment with a doctor at the health centre digitally without first talking to a nurse. But there I feel that at least in my own region there is a very long way to go. If, with what we are deciding here, we can in some way drive progress in a positive way, we are, of course, prepared to discuss it.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-378	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, honourable Member, for that entrance! We need to rub it in the future. We see that there is a fairly rapid imbalance in the country. That is exactly what the honourable Member says. It has the best intentions when deciding on its own region's compensation and fee system. But it has consequences for other regions. All of a sudden there's going to be an oblique load. I also agree that it works perfectly well that, as a patient, I have a direct access to my permanent medical contact. But it's also about me building that relationship. If I know, we know each other and it works well, I can very well do it that way. But that is rarely the case today. As we have an increasing lack of accessibility, we need more gatekeeper functions. I would also like to see a time when we have a primary care that works well where you have your fixed medical contact that has a reasonable number of patients. It can then work just as Kristina Nilsson says. Let us work towards that goal and ensure that we find the systems that feed and support such development.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-382	Mr President, I would like to I did not think there was a direct question in Mr Ankarberg Johansson's last speech here. I simply note that I am pleased to belong to a committee in which we often find common ways forward and common solutions to difficult problems and that we can do so across both block and party borders. So do we in the regions. There, for example, the Christian Democrats run together with the Social Democrats in Jönköping. I think this is a positive example to highlight a region that is doing very well. What I would like to talk about here, however, is that I often hear from the Christian Democrat side – perhaps not from Acko Ankarberg Johansson – in the media and, like that, the constant cry for nationalisation. For me, it is a bit difficult to understand why, on the one hand, we believe that we should make major interventions in health care and that the state should take over when, at the same time, large-scale privatisations are being carried out in many regions and fragmentations of care and care choices that do not at all favour uniformity and equivalence. I'm not really making ends meet. I am pleased that we can work well together in the Committee on Social Affairs and hopefully move forward in due course.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-386	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is currently in a situation we have not experienced in generations. The full effect of the Corona virus is difficult to grasp today, but we all see how society is affected in one way or another. This is particularly clear in healthcare, where many businesses now work under tremendous pressure and where health professionals every day represent almost heroic efforts. The current situation in Swedish healthcare requires that those of us who are healthy do what we can to avoid infection. But it also requires us from the political side to ensure that Swedish health care is provided with the necessary resources to manage to maintain a functioning healthcare system throughout the country. Work to strengthen Swedish healthcare is currently ongoing around the clock, usually in broad political agreement and at all levels. But there is also a time after Corona, and Swedish healthcare is in great need of long-term, powerful reforms. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party has long been pushing for a new primary care reform that will enable safe and accessible care throughout the country. It was also something we brought with us the Liberals and the Government in the framework of the January agreement. Today we are putting one of the pieces of the puzzle into such a reform, a piece of the puzzle that will clarify the basic mission of primary care and make it more attractive to work in primary care. That care is there when we need it, it is a matter of security. The Center Party wants all people, no matter where in the country they live, to feel confident that there is an accessible and close care. Primary care is the care that should be closest to people. The fact that primary care works and is available throughout the country is crucial for the overall functioning and quality of care. Primary care should be the base of Swedish healthcare and the patient's first way into contact with the healthcare system. But if we look at primary care today, we can see that in many places it is not as accessible as we wish. Availability often varies depending on where in the country you live. A major contributory and serious reason why accessibility varies is that there is a large shortage of doctors in primary care. Without doctors, we find it very difficult to run a health centre and maintain access. We see that too small a proportion of the population today has a fixed doctor's contact or a fixed care contact. Especially elderly, multi-sick or chronically ill may be severely affected by not having a fixed doctor's contact or a high degree of continuity in their contacts with the care. One of the most important steps towards close care is that you and I get a firm medical contact that we know by name and that knows us and knows what needs we have, or what we needed help with before. But if we're going to have a permanent doctor, we need to deal with the medical shortage. Many health centers today are largely staffed by hired doctors, which means that many patients often meet several different doctors. The fact that so few doctors choose to work in primary care is often due to the fact that they feel that there are no conditions for doing a good job. Today, the primary health care doctor has little opportunity to influence his/her work situation and often has responsibility for a great many patients. We want to change this. Therefore, Mr President, we have now commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to develop guidelines and advice on a recommended number of patients listed per fixed doctor. The guidelines will strengthen the ability of doctors to have a safe and sustainable working situation and make it more attractive to work in primary care. Primary care should also consist of larger health centres and smaller clinics. In this way, it may be possible for a doctor with less start-up capital to start his own clinic with responsibility for fewer patients. Experience from Norway shows that it is possible to improve primary care by giving doctors more opportunities to run their own activities in their own right. A primary care reform that provides better opportunities to run small clinics increases the conditions for providing care in rural and rural areas. As part of this development, care choices also need to be developed in order to make it easier and more attractive to also establish yourself in smaller towns and in sparsely populated areas. Precisely efforts to facilitate the establishment of rural and rural areas are proposed by the Center Party on several occasions in the past. Tackling unequal access requires a deeper analysis. That is why, Mr President, I am pleased that the Swedish Agency for Health and Welfare Analysis has now been given a mandate to identify accessibility and quality today and to analyse how primary care can be developed in order to promote good health and accessible care. The primary care reform is a bit like putting a puzzle. Right now we have sorted the pieces, and we can see the picture before us how it will be once we are done. With today's decision, we've put a few pieces in place. But we're far from done. We will continue to put pieces in place as we go. All pieces need to be added, and all pieces are important for the puzzle to be connected and be able to be the base of Swedish health care. The pieces that we are putting now in particular with today's decision are about clarifying the definition of primary care and its basic mission. If primary care is to form the basis of Swedish health care, we must first agree on the definition of what primary care actually is and what the basic task consists of. That is, among other things, what we are deciding here today. According to the proposals on the table, we have tried to modernise and adapt the definition of primary care to the changes that have taken place in the area of health. However, while it is important that the definition is as clear as possible, it must also be general in order not to hinder further development, digitalisation and flexibility. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks for the constructive discussion that we had in committee and which led to the proposal for a decision that is on the table today, in which we have made the rehabilitative, preventive and health-promoting responsibility quite clear. These are pieces that should really be part of the primary care mission. The fact that we have broad majority and consensus is, I believe, an important success factor for us to be able to create long-term and robust primary care throughout the country. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-409	Mr President, I would like to Primary care, friends and colleagues, is extremely important, we all know that, for every person who needs wise medical assessment and treatment, care, prevention and good rehabilitation. Right now, the health care of the whole country has an unimaginably heavy mission under a pandemic that seems to be becoming increasingly mean to us. At the same time, of course, all common diseases remain, and even without a pandemic, we know that health care needs better conditions. Primary care must become a strong hub where help is close to us just when we need it, Madam President – whether we need it in a health centre, at home in the kitchen or in the phone in our pocket. The Nav should be there. It will coordinate and ensure that we get through what we have to go through in a safe and secure way. However, we should very rarely need to receive treatment in the emergency room than we do today. This and many other things lay the foundation for today's decision. I am very grateful that it is in broad agreement and broad consensus that we will take this decision. We agree that preventive care must be strengthened, mainly because lifestyle diseases cause great suffering, but also because diseases that could have been prevented take up a lot of time in healthcare today, time that other sick people need. There is also a need for more outreach care, of course, for those of us who are unable to ask for help themselves. I therefore call for the committee's proposal, for the proposal and for the additions from the various members of the committee that we have agreed on. But, Madam President, it should not stop at today's decision. That is the basis, but we must do more. We want to do more. The people of medical care, to begin with, are the key to all of this. No laws can help without knowledgeable, committed people. This is why, together with our partners, we are investing more than SEK 3 billion in the next year on skilled professionals and their competence development. It's absolutely crucial. Then I look forward to finally deciding, together with the rest of you, on a pharmaceutical reform. When we Liberals launched the proposal for a house doctor's reform in the 1970s, I do not think that anyone, fortunately, thought that it would take more than 40 years of patient work to bring it to fruition, or that we would succeed in introducing it just to see it teared up almost immediately the following year when the liberal minister handed over to an S-marked minister. Now the house doctor reform is finally coming to fruition, and it is not a day too soon. Each of us must be able to choose a family doctor, Madam President, who knows us by name. We'll be able to do that wherever we are and wherever in the country we live. The health centre must become this base that ties in and coordinates the skills that each individual patient needs. Every employee must also have a sustainable working environment, with time for the patients and with enough colleagues. We also work to make it easier to run small, caring health clinics all over Sweden. These decisions are not very far either, but these reforms need the basis we are laying today. Here and now it starts. It feels good that the club will fall this afternoon, Madam President. Primary care is absolutely essential for so many people, and it requires a political workshop so that the knowledgeable people who will provide care can then do their job and feel proud when they go home. Now a long-standing liberal dream soon becomes obvious everyday life. I am very pleased that we have been united and had discussions that made me happy every time our meetings have been concluded.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-419	Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament and those of you who may be watching the debate on some screen at home! These are really difficult times now. The trial time is here. We are currently in the greatest crisis since the Second World War. During this debate, we have learned that another 96 people in our country have died in the last 24 hours. All these people have lost their lives in the pandemic. All these people have loved ones, friends and colleagues, who now mourn them. Madam President, I would like It takes an average of five days from getting infected to getting sick. Then it takes another ten days before, if you are unlucky, you end up in a hospital. There's a delay here. Now everyone needs to gather their strength and stay home when you can. That is also why, a few days ago, the government went out and underlined the importance of this by introducing a new provision stating that general meetings may have only eight persons. It is a tremendous tightening up, a tremendous restriction, which we are now carrying out in our country. But it is really needed today. So please stay home! Don't go to the mall! Don't go to the gym! Listen to this advice! It may be difficult to make them connect, but it depends on the legislation we have. The most important thing is that you actually follow the advice and stay at home with the slightest symptoms and that the employers who can let their staff work at home and not go to work. It's serious now! But, Madam President, we are also here to talk about the bill that the government has put on the table of Parliament and on which we are pleased to be able to make decisions today. It is an important reform of primary care that we government parties are now carrying out together with our cooperation parties, the Center and the Liberals. It is part of the January agreement that we entered into when the new government took office. This is a green victory, I'd say. We have worked for a long time to broaden our mission to health care and for close care. Patients should be able to come to a doctor who knows them. It should be possible to receive preventive care so that we reduce the more serious cases of illness that we will then see. We are now implementing this in this reform. We have been pushing for a long time to seek help not only for physical symptoms but also for mental ones. We are doing this too. We broaden the mission and make sure that you can seek help from a psychologist when necessary. Madam President, I would like It's important that we work on equality. Here I see that digitalisation can play an important role. Out in sparsely populated areas, it may be easier to have contact with an online doctor when it is difficult to get to a health centre that is far away. This is where we have to work a lot more. We have seen in the corona crisis that net doctors and the digital part of care have played a huge role for many people. Sometimes you have not had the opportunity to go to a doctor physically because the spread of infection should be reduced and you should not risk getting infected yourself. We have seen how people have been able to be at home and be connected to a doctor who, for example, can help to read blood pressure. Many feel secure with that solution. At the same time, it is of course important that this does not impoverish care. Financial resources need to be increased, not reduced. It is important that we regulate it so that it does not become the case that a cold drains care on the resources available and that those who may need a much more complex care do not get it. We must ensure that this is regulated very clearly. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that we are now presenting this proposal, and I am pleased that we are sitting in various discussions and negotiations for the subsequent proposals that we will present and which will deepen this work. They will be presented during this term of office by the government and the cooperation parties: the Centre Party and the Liberals. With those words, Madam President, I would like to call for the proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-430	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for your speech. I noticed that it was a green victory that the bill came forward. Now I am pleased that we still made an adjustment in committee in terms of health promotion, outreach and rehabilitation. It is now being returned to the basic mission. However, since it was a green victory, I would like to ask Mrs Pernilla: what was the reason why the government did not include these elements in the bill from the beginning?
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-431	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Ankarberg, for the question. It is included in the amendment that there should also be health promotion in the mission. It's in this bill. We see it as very important that health promotion missions are carried out. That's why I'm glad it's in the bill.
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-432	Madam President, I would like In the Health Care Act, we will work to promote health. However, when the bill came from the government to clarify the basic task of primary care, health promotion, rehabilitation or outreach were not included. We contributed this in full agreement from the committee. What we have done in Parliament is good, but since it was a green victory my question was: What was the reason why the parts that we have had to supplement from the Riksdag were not included in the bill?
i-ca65ca921575ff9a-433	Madam President, I would like All parties agree that this should be done, and as I said, it is included in the law. But it is good that we clarified the mission in committee. It is very good that we are almost always united in our committee and that everyone actually emphasises these issues. However, the Green Party has been pushing these issues for a very long time. Our focus on health policy has been precisely to look at the whole person and have a public health perspective. You should also work with rehabilitation. In the wake of the pandemic, we now see that it will indeed be needed. We see covid-19 patients who suffer very much from the aftermath of their disease.
