i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-6	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me whether the government believes that a special investigation should be set up to look at issues relating to virginity checks and so on. Amineh Kakabaverh has also asked me what measures the government has taken and intends to take to counteract the issuing of a virginity certificate and the carrying out of so-called virgin operations. Innocent controls and virginity operations are unacceptable. They are an expression of honour-related violence and repression that restricts, in particular, the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms by girls and young women and, as such, are completely incompatible with Swedish health care legislation. Honour culture has no place in Swedish society; there must be no doubt about this. The Government has therefore taken several measures to strengthen national work in this area. On July 1, this year, a new crime, child marriage crime, was introduced, which can give prisons a maximum of four years. At the same time, a penalty for crimes with honorary motives was introduced. An exit ban was also introduced to protect children from being taken abroad to enter into child marriage or genital mutilation. In order to prevent violence in close relationships and men's violence against women, including honour-related violence and repression, the Government has adopted a ten-year national strategy that became effective on 1 January 2017. The Government also intends to commission a special investigator in autumn 2020 to develop a national strategy against violence against children, including honour-related violence and repression. With increased knowledge within the relevant professional groups, Sweden can become better at reaching those at risk of honour-related violence and oppression in time. The Government has therefore commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to provide in-depth training on honour-related violence and repression and genital mutilation for the social services and health care. In the budget proposal for 2021, the Government proposes that the national competence team at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland be developed and permanentized in the form of a national competence centre against honour-related violence and repression. The Government also proposes an initiative to increase the competence of professionals within agencies, among other things. On the question of an investigation and the specific issues that one should deal with, I would like to state the following: For the reasons set out above, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare produced a communication sheet in 2018 that makes it clear that virginity checks and certificates of innocence are incompatible with Swedish law. The Health and Welfare Inspection, IVO, supervises healthcare professionals. Anyone who does not meet the requirements of the Patient Safety Act for science and proven experience risks being criticised and to have their professional ID withdrawn. According to the same law, IVO is obliged to report to the prosecutor if the authority is able to suspect that a criminal offence for which prison is prescribed has been committed. If a virginity check has taken place without consent or if the victim has been under 15 years of age, the check may be considered as a sexual offence, such as rape or rape of a child, even though it has no sexual purpose. The fact that a check on innocence could be a rape is also highlighted by the Honorary Crimes investigation in the report A special offence of honour, which is now being referred to. Public funds should only be allocated to activities that are compatible with the fundamental values of society. Against this background, the Government has examined a clear, legally secure and uniform democracy conditions for the state grant and also a clarified democracy condition for state support to the religious community. The report proposes, among other things, that contributions should not be made to an organisation if it or its representative justifies, promotes or calls for violence, coercion, threats or other violations of the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals. The investigation into the review of state aid to religious communities proposes a clearer democracy condition for state support to religious communities. The reports of the two investigations are prepared within the Government Office. The authority for support to religious communities oversees the state-subsidised faiths. The agency has a dialogue with all religions about how they live up to the democratic condition. The Authority has launched a review of the Mandean community mentioned in the radio programme People and Faith. As this examination is under way, I cannot comment more on the case at hand. I intend to continue to follow this issue closely. If this proves necessary, the government will consider further measures.
i-FqDsFpZARFC7StirjexuPW	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren, for the answer and the statement! It is positive that the Minister for Social Affairs shares my view that so-called virginity checks and operations are unacceptable. It is also good that the government wants to combat honour-related violence and repression with new legislation, increased financial resources and training of various professions. This has been pursued for two decades, and it is very positive. It is also very positive that a review of state support for religious communities violates women's and girls' rights and cements honorary standards. Unfortunately, the Minister for Social Affairs did not answer my question as to whether she and the government believe that a survey of the extent of the virginity certificates issued and so-called virginity operations is necessary. The P1 program People and Faith recently sent interviews with representatives of religious communities and other people, and it emerged that there are religious communities that require such innocence certificates. In Sweden, this equal country in the world, the year 2020 is about to maintain the patriarchal structures of the Stone Age. This must not occur in health and long-term care. As the Minister of Social Affairs pointed out, resources should not go to such unscientific, stone-age and women's oppressive mechanisms as they can be called. With regard to the various causes of the problem of honour, it is important to remember that it is all based on innocence and on the chastity, purity and honesty of the woman. That is why it is very important, I think, to ensure that we get an idea of the extent of this problem and that we look at what we can do if there is no investigation. The government has come up with various investigations and with good legislative proposals. I myself – in my association – have been a consultation body. We have written about this, and I have mentioned it many times already in 2011, in this House. Cold facts did an audit of the virginity checks. Both in Stockholm and Malmö they issued a certificate of innocence and did so-called virgin surgery; it was talked about that it cost 8 000 – 15 000. I mean, this is unacceptable. We simply have to make sure that it is investigated. We need to know the scope and then perhaps have specific legislation in this area. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Social Affairs is: is the Minister for Social Affairs prepared to set up such an investigation?
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-24	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Amineh Kakabaveh, for raising an important question! Thank you for your commitment to the issue, and thank you also for giving me the opportunity to stand here and talk about it. I believe that we should not underestimate the importance of raising the issue and the importance of showing that there are many of us who do not accept honour-related violence and oppression. It has no place in a democratic society, as Sweden is. I would like Amineh Kakabaveh in her next post to tell you a little more about the picture she has of how common this is and so on, so I'll try to answer even better, if I can, to the question that Amineh Kakabaveh asks about setting up an investigation. There was a reason why the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare produced a message sheet in 2018. I refer here a little bit to my interpellation response. This is incompatible with Swedish law. There is no discussion about this, and it needs to be clear to all those who work in health care. IVO is obliged to file a complaint with the prosecutor in case of suspicion of a crime. I also described that if a virginity check has taken place, without consent or if the victim has been under 15 years of age, it can be regarded as rape or rape of children. I would also like to say that all health care should be conducted on the basis of science and proven experience. It is impossible to establish whether a woman is a virgin or not. It is therefore impossible to carry out such a check in any way. Nor is it possible to see whether such a check has been carried out. But there is constitutional protection against forced investigations. What health care must do in these contexts is learn more, understand honor-related violence and oppression, and the problems women live with. Different actors in public Sweden, not least in social services and health care, need to learn so much more. It is therefore very gratifying, I think, that there is a mission that this should be part of educations but also in knowledge development for health care staff. Of course, they also have an assignment, if it is a minor, to file a report for social services. They should also be able to meet the woman who seeks them, provide security and support and be able to refer further. It is not just a question of asking a question, getting an answer and acting, but it is so much more complex than that. And I certainly do not need to tell Amineh Kakabaveh that, but it may be important for those who might listen to the interpellation debate to understand that it is not possible to just ask whether there are innocent controls, because this is an illegal activity. We have to deal with it in different ways. We have to make sure we stop it. However, I find it difficult to see that an investigation in itself would go further. An investigation is of course many more times to provide a basis that in turn enables the government and parliament to take action and tighten up legislation. And I believe that the government has taken many steps to inculcate the seriousness of the crime and tighten the penalties for those who carry out various forms of honor-related violence and oppression but also to increase knowledge. I have a basis here with 35 – 40 points dealing with action plans, strategies, missions, knowledge, money, support phones and national centres. So much is being done, but an investigation into an illegal activity that cannot be controlled, I think, is very difficult to carry out.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-32	Madam President, I would like That is exactly why it is difficult to say exact figures. On the other hand, we know that this is happening. Why else had controls been carried out at two health centres, one in Malmö and one in Stockholm, if one had not had such a requirement for young girls and women, those who were married away or married in honour culture? Not only does it occur in one particular ethnic group, but unfortunately it occurs among most people, from India to the Middle East and parts of Africa. There is this culture, and it is also here among us. In 2011, the Government gave a commission to NCK, the National Centre for Women's Peace, in Uppsala, to conduct a survey. If I remember correctly, in 258 cases out of 500, virginity checks and certifications had been carried out. Even a representative of the community did not say no when a journalist asked the question. It became flukey and came to the conclusion that there are even calls on the community to carry out virginity control. In order to produce figures, it is good to have facts about what is forbidden. It is true, as the Minister for Social Affairs says in his reply, that this is totally unacceptable. But it is not mentioned in rape legislation and regulations or in any investigation that acts of innocence or virginity control could be rape. It is good if this legislation comes and if this ends up in honour. It is another question if it should end up there. We do not know enough about the extent of the problem. In order for both me and the Minister for Social Affairs to be able to find answers to this, a survey could simply be carried out. I think there are very good doctors, nurses and gynecologists who know the scope. It also emerged in the interview that People and Faith in Swedish Radio did with some experts. Everyone's wondering how big the scale is. That is why I believe that an investigation could give us more tools for legislation. I have been pushing this issue ever since three terms of office. Unfortunately, however, virginity checks are in place, and no case has been made public and no one has been convicted. IVO has not received any case either. In order for prosecutors to deal with such cases, we need to have a law in place.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-37	Madam President, I would like This is not unacceptable; it is illegal. We do not need an investigation and no evidence to tell us that this is behaviour, oppression and violence that we should be punishing. It's illegal. This is incompatible with Swedish health care law. It is subject to honor-related violence and oppression. There's a lot of work here. What is needed is knowledge among those who work, those who face all forms of honour-related violence and oppression and not least what health care meets. Part of this is so-called virginity checks or certificates of innocence. There are other oppressions that they also face and must see. I firmly believe that the Minister of Justice will be happy to discuss with Amineh Kakabaveh in the future. I am also absolutely convinced that Åsa Lindhagen is happy to have an in-depth discussion about how we take on honor-related violence and oppression widely. However, since this is incompatible with Swedish health legislation, it is extremely difficult to do a survey. I understand Amineh Kakabaveh when she says there's going to be an investigation, because it's not a mission review that should in and with hidden methods find out anything. A government investigation works in a different way. It is difficult to make a survey when it is not compatible with the legislation and there is no type of action code or similar to look at. We know it's happening. It is not that anyone needs to convince the Swedish Government or, I believe, the Swedish Parliament that it exists. This should not happen, and we need to increase our knowledge of it in different ways. I think it is very difficult – I maintain – to map out something that is illegal and that no one in the business can do. On the other hand, I would very much welcome the report to the Inspectorate for Health and Care and that this, if there is courage and security, leads to police reporting and prosecution. It takes a lot of work for women, children and young people to feel secure and know what society's safety net looks like so that they dare to take the step away from honor-related violence and oppression. Those who turn to care and want a so-called innocence certificate may not always say that it is a compulsion, but those who meet this desire must understand and must never hesitate that it is not the woman's own will and opinion that it is based on without honor-related violence and oppression. Punishment has taken place, and many measures have been taken. Amineh Kakabaveh referred to data from both 2011 and 2015. It shows that this has existed over time. I would say that a lot has happened since 2011. Many measures have been taken, and there is a great deal of knowledge. But that is not enough, because then we would never face the issue of innocence or honour-related violence and oppression in our society. On 7 October, the Honorary Crime Investigation presented its report, which proposes, among other things, the introduction of a special offence of honour. It is out for a referral, which expires on 19 January, and it is as I said Morgan Johansson who receives it. A lot has happened, and things are going on. We should certainly not stand still and wait for things to improve, but here we need hard work. I would like to say this once again: a great deal of knowledge is needed so that anyone who meets a woman captures the opportunity and does not miss the opportunity to help her out of a situation in which she probably does not want to be.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-47	Madam President, I would like Honorary standards and oppression are not something you see or talk about. It's taboo, and it's hard for a lot of people to tell you about it. When you come to health care, it's confidentiality, and that's why you dare to tell me. I myself have been in contact with some girls, and I know that we from the women's movement will never recommend a girl to have a so-called certificate of innocence if there is a requirement that she should. Many are forced, and these are not only little girls but also older women. This is not something you make up. Neither Swedish Radio, TV4's Cold Facts and other media, women's organisations or I have any reason to argue something that does not exist. This requirement exists and is widespread in many parts of the world. Even in France, legislative proposals are made on this subject when there are large communities issuing or recommending them. I believe that this is extremely serious. We need to ensure that the National Board of Health and Welfare, the IVO, the health services and all youth clinics receive guidelines and information that this is illegal and that they help the girls. In Sweden this must be removed. We must fight the myth of the innocence of women. It's about values.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-50	Madam President, I would like It's about values. It is a question of human rights and freedoms. It is not a gender issue and not a marginal issue, but it is fundamental rights and freedoms that all people living in a democratic society should have. I have no doubt that it exists. I am not questioning any of the things Amineh Kakabaveh writes or which emerges in any form of report. On the contrary, that is why the government has acted strongly, not only in words and feelings, but in actions and strategies. We should not say that it is a project that we have a year or two, but it is ten-year strategies that involve different parts of society. Healthcare has an important role to play in detecting and paying attention to the level of violence that exists. We must also ensure that the victims are provided with care and support. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has the task of providing knowledge support to municipalities, regions and student health. It also has a mandate to carry out in-depth training for those working in social services and health care. I believe that this is absolutely necessary for them to discover, understand and dare to act. At the same time, we have stricter criminal legislation, and we have, for example, the national centre within the framework of the County Administrative Board Östergötland, which works both with support phones and with various knowledge-raising efforts. I am convinced that it is with knowledge, determination and great unity that we have a chance to help those girls and women who are exposed to honour-related violence and oppression.
i-MgREzUYoocn7iPkLcoKK4	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister for the Environment and Climate Policy Isabella Lövin, Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde, Minister for Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind and Minister Lena Micko. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for the Environment and Climate Policy Isabella Lövin answers both general policy questions and questions within her own area of responsibility.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-56	Madam President, I would like The climate issue is central to humanity and one of the biggest challenges facing politics today. But unfortunately Sweden's emissions are decreasing too slowly to achieve our climate targets, and we need to speed up with the right measures in the right place. Forests are central to climate change. We want to build more wood, make clothes out of wood fibers and drive a car and fly with fuel from the forest. But the experts agree: If we are to take advantage of the forest in the transition, we need to increase the growth of our Swedish forest, without compromising important values such as biodiversity. Despite the fact that we already exempt more than a third of our Swedish forest from being managed, demands to protect more forest, and this makes it difficult to use the forest for everything we want. My question is therefore: how will the government ensure to increase the growth of the forest and take advantage of the Swedish forest in the climate transition?
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-59	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Rosencrantz, for raising an extremely important issue, namely climate change and how we can use the renewable resources we have at our disposal while preserving biodiversity. Not only do we currently have a global climate crisis, but we also have a biodiversity crisis – 1 million species are at risk of disappearing. It is therefore extremely important that we can balance these two interests at the same time. I see that there are great opportunities to use residues from forests and agriculture, but also cultivation on agricultural land, for example, for renewable energy and other resources that we need in society, for wood construction and for textiles and a variety of other goods that we can produce in a much more sustainable way by using our natural resources.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-61	Madam President, I would like Yes, we agree on where we want to go, but the challenge, as I mentioned, is that one third of the forest is already excluded from use. Many experts agree that today's forestry is not enough for all that we want to do today. That is why I am curious because the government's policy seems to be about protecting even more forest than we already do today. Does the Government see that it is possible to use the forest in the climate transition? Or, to put it another way, is there a stop to how much forest we can actually protect and yet achieve our climate goals?
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-62	Madam President, I would like The Parliament has just endorsed a goal at EU level to protect 30 per cent of the land area. This includes, of course, the forest. The government's policy to remove fossil fuels is very clear. We have now presented a fuel change, a reduction obligation, and will gradually mix much more renewable into petrol and diesel. This really gives clear signals to those who want to invest in renewable energy.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-64	Madam President, I would like If you are an adult and choose to join a terrorist cult like IS, you have made a conscious choice. Making this choice – joining a sect that decapitates and burns people – must provide clear consistency. You simply cannot expect to retain your Swedish citizenship regardless of the atrocities you commit. This issue is raised by the fact that four female IS terrorists are on their way to Sweden. Several EU countries are currently withdrawing the citizenship of terrorists, which gives a clear signal that it is not acceptable to join or associate with this vile killer cult. Already in 2014, the Swedish Democrats put forward a proposal to withdraw their citizenship. Had our proposal been heeded, we could have the change of law in place today. My question goes to Isabella Lövin. I wonder whether the government believes that people who have participated in or supported genocide, slavery and systematic rape should be allowed to walk freely in our streets and squares, or whether, with their support for the killer cult, they lose the right to their Swedish citizenship.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-67	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Katja Nyberg, for this question! As far as terrorist and war crimes are concerned, there is no limitation period. Swedish courts can judge even if the crimes have been committed abroad. It is extremely important that no one who commits a crime, no matter where it happens or what nationality you have, should have impunity. We have a good picture of the situation and knowledge of the individuals who have participated in IS so-called war and are connected to Sweden. We have also always been clear that prosecution and accountability should take place on the ground in the region, but that, of course, as a country, we should take responsibility for those individuals who have committed crimes and that they should be prosecuted and punished in Sweden.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-69	Madam President, I would like Today we have individuals in our country who want to kill innocent people. They have been affiliated to IS, and through their Swedish citizenship they have had the opportunity to come back to Sweden and take part of our welfare systems. We citizens have to pay for this with tax money. The government has not succeeded in expelling a single individual who poses a security threat to Sweden. Despite obstacles to enforcement, the security of the country should take precedence over the security of the extremists. Why does the government not want to explain these individuals as Sweden's enemies and deprive them of their Swedish citizenship?
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-72	Madam President, I would like The principles that Sweden upholds and upholds are the principles of the rule of law. Anyone who commits a crime, regardless of where it occurs and whether it is a terrorist offence or an inhuman crime in the name of a religious sect, shall be held to account and prosecuted. I would really like to emphasise that for those who have no state affiliation, legal uncertainty becomes immensely great. Of course, we will convict those who have committed serious crimes.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-73	Madam President, I would like I ask my question to Lena Micko, who is responsible for municipalities and regions. It is about that around our coasts there is a very beautiful archipelago, with islands and holiday homes but also with permanent residents who live there all year round. They've got kids going to school, and they're working on their own. There are also older people there, who need a doctor, transportation service and so on. And so we have a public transport law in our country, but it is not being enforced. Telecommunications also does not work very well on these islands. The service doesn't work either, because there's no one you can call.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-75	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Solveig Zander, for the question! This is an issue which concerns a number of different areas. I can agree with a description that it is tough in many parts of the country when it comes to the good functioning of public services everywhere. It is really based on the fact that there is an interaction between what we do at national level – the decisions taken here in Parliament, the government's initiatives and our authorities – and what we do locally. There will be even more to be done when it comes to ensuring that the public service exists, but that the way it is designed is different. In my daily contacts with regions and municipalities, there are many of these issues that are constantly topical, and there we are also trying to see how we can further improve public services.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-77	Madam President, I would like This is extremely important. I was visiting off the Uppland coast. There was no form of public transport. There were quite a few permanent residents all year round. As a minister, you have a responsibility to ensure that it actually works. Then I wonder: What does the Minister do? How do you push for this to work?
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-79	Madam President, I would like What we do in the government and parliament, the cooperation parties together, is always about finding different forms of a functioning public service. Where it is sparsely populated, it cannot look exactly the same as in a larger city, for example. Then you have to find other forms for it. It is a question of developing the digital infrastructure and of trying, together with the municipalities, to ensure that there is a common public service. I believe that we will see more and more in the future, and we will have to discuss more cooperation.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-81	Madam President, I would like Within the framework of the initiative Fossil-free Sweden, 21 roadmaps for fossil freedom have been received. These are road maps from the haulage industry, the forestry industry, the steel industry, the automotive industry and so on. Almost all industries expect to use more biofuels than today. If all these road maps were to be met, we in Sweden would need about twice as much biofuels as we do today. It goes without saying that we do not have enough raw materials to produce twice as much biofuels as we do today. With such a large production we would turn our living forests into monocultures for biofuel production. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to ask the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action how much biofuels will be produced within the framework of the roadmaps. How do you ensure that we maintain biodiversity and living forests?
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-84	Madam President, I would like I thank Jens Holm for raising a very important issue. The roadmaps that have been submitted to the government within the framework of Fossil-free Sweden are the industry's own assessments of how they can meet the goal of being fossil-free and having net zero emissions by 2045. There is currently no complete picture. Many roadmaps overlap and, of course, the roadmaps do not add up to future legislation and reforms put forward by the government, for example, for next year. The estimate of a double use is very rough. For example, we are already seeing how electrification scenarios in quite a lot exceed the Swedish Energy Agency's forecasts. We will follow this very closely. However, protecting biodiversity and the objectives we have for it is also an important objective for the government.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-87	Madam President, I would like The roadmaps have been kicked into the government, and this has been done within the framework of the government's initiative Fossil-free Sweden, where Sweden will become the world's first fossil-free welfare nation. That is a fantastic goal. I therefore believe that everyone expects that it is precisely the government that will come back with regard to the balance and the priority. Earlier Isabella Lövin said that biofuels should only be produced from residual products. I'd like to ask, is Isabella Lövin sticking to it?
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-89	Madam President, I would like As I said, this development is fast. It is primarily residues and the hierarchy that we see for how to use the forest that should guide us. Then biofuels are by no means produced only from forest residues but also from residues from both industry and agriculture. Sweden currently imports most of the biofuels used. It is now possible to open up to sustainable production of biofuels in Sweden.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-90	Madam President, I would like The crisis and the spread of infection are certainly not over. Developments over the past week have meant that restrictions have needed to be tightened up for an increasing number of regions, which means that the crisis is once again drawing in as an unpleasant hurricane on our country's entrepreneurs. Especially when it comes to small businesses in the tourism industry, the situation is extremely tough and critical for many. Many live in uncertain times and feel a great frustration, and many entrepreneurs are desperate. They need to review their activities and start firing people at the beginning of next year. On the assumption that we are now in the midst of a pandemic, many entrepreneurs believe that the withdrawal rule must be removed now, as companies receive only nine months of short-term support and then 24 months of withdrawal. Is the government prepared to make an exception during the current pandemic and temporarily remove this withdrawal rule?
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-92	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Brodin, for the question! It is true that we are in an exceptional situation, and the government has also been quick with exceptional measures to facilitate for companies and not least for employees around Sweden to mitigate the effects of restrictions due to the pandemic, which has not least affected the tourism industry. We have introduced very successful lay-off support, which means that many people have been able to keep their jobs during this difficult time. We have also given turnover aid and conversion aid to companies, which means that they are able to cope with this difficult time. We've removed employer's fees. We've taken responsibility for sick pay. We also intend to move forward with support for individual traders. Here there are many important instruments and different forms of help for those affected by the pandemic.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-94	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for an answer that does not answer my question. The question was, of course, the withdrawal rule, which means that companies that have received short-term aid for nine months are no longer entitled to receive it. Now they are waiting for what the government will do in the future. Will the government provide information on what applies? The Karen rule means that you do not receive short-term support during the next two years once you have had it for nine months.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-96	Madam President, I would like As I said, this is an exceptional situation. It is important that we strengthen those companies that are able to continue their activities when the crisis is over. The conversion aid is supposed to be a conversion aid, so that companies have the opportunity to adapt and not have to go bankrupt. It is an opportunity for a transition in order to cope with a longer period of the pandemic. That is the purpose of the whole thing.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-98	Madam President, I would like I, too, have a question for Minister for the Environment and Climate, Isabella Lövin. We are now facing enormous climate change and a huge climate disaster. To overcome this, we need to electrify, and then we need a steady supply of electricity. Now Isabella Lövin has the question of the disposal and an increased inter-detention on her table. The truth is that if the government fails to accept this, the stable electricity supply in the country will be threatened. Therefore, I would like to ask the Government whether we can expect the Government to take a decision and agree to go forward with precisely the question of disposal and inter-detention so that we can save the climate and do not have disturbances in the energy system.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-101	Madam President, I would like Joar Forssell is now linking the energy supply today and the climate transition to the question of the disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The question of disposal has been extremely unsolved ever since nuclear power was used in Sweden and in other countries. In principle, there is no country that already has a functioning repository. Instead, the world's spent nuclear fuel is present in various intermediate layers. Despite this, new nuclear power plants are being built, even though they are extremely expensive compared to adding corresponding capacity from wind or hydroelectric power, for example. This is the biggest case that the Ministry of the Environment has ever dealt with, and it is important that we make an assessment that is as safe as possible.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-104	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Government thinks this is important. Now it is true that the Radiation Safety Authority has said yes, and the municipalities concerned have said yes. The Land and Environment Court has also said yes, but believes that there is a need to supplement the matter of copper corrosion, which has also been done. The point of the system we have is that there are several controls along the way. What happens if we do not take a decision on this now is that we risk nuclear power stopping and that we will then see major disruptions in our energy system. It's bad for the climate.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-106	Madam President, I would like I do not agree with the conclusion that this issue is linked to the climate issue. The disposal of nuclear fuel has been an unsolved issue ever since commercial nuclear power was introduced into the world. We are talking about a repository that must be sustainable for 100 000 years, no more or less – 100 000 years! It is therefore important that it is ensured in every possible way that the system to be approved is a secure system.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-107	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask a question to Minister of Civil Affairs Lena Micko. The Coronapandemia has hit health but also Sweden's economy very hard. Therefore, the S-led government has come with a strong budget with large contributions to the local government sector. It is very much needed for municipalities and to get the economy going. Many municipalities are therefore looking at life fairly brightly during 2020 and 2021. Several believe, however, that the years after then, increased support to municipalities is needed, among other things, in order to cope with well-being. Will the government also provide funding for the coming years? Why weren't the supplements that now come permanent?
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-110	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Eva Lindh, for a question that I know many are discussing and thinking about right now! It is true that what we have done is historically very large. Through all the contacts I have with SKR, I know that the municipalities are satisfied with the contributions that have come. Great improvements have not been made which would otherwise have been relevant. This is mainly about the fact that there has been a weak tax base during the year. That is why we have made these major changes and see that we must prioritise what is about welfare. Schooling, care and care are the most important things to ensure that we continue to have good development in our country in this area. When it comes to the weak tax base, the government is constantly monitoring how it develops. We have given the information that can be given now and will, of course, continue to consider what might be further needed. This is, of course, part of the further planning for 2022.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-114	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. These have been important measures for the local government sector, and it is, of course, about managing well-being and also keeping the economy going. This is good, but some municipalities now have large surpluses in 2020. What can municipalities and regions do with these surpluses? How will the government deal with SKR's request for a temporary amendment of the law, which is abbreviated about greater opportunities to use state subsidies in the coming years?
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-116	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that we are now having a discussion about what to do with resources on the plus side instead of deficits, which we discussed a few months ago. I would like to say that what is prioritised is, of course, a local issue. What the government does is provide the conditions for giving local welfare priority, and it is the citizens who have to make these demands and expectations that resources go to welfare. It is possible to bring forward what would still be done in the future: investment, pensions and more. It can be wise advice.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-120	Madam President, I would like The government has previously stated that Sweden will have a leading role in the work of producing concrete proposals on how the issue of autonomous weapon systems, also known as killer robots, can best be pursued. It is easy to see the moral and ethical challenges we would all face if machines and not people decided to fire a deadly weapon or not. The fears should be taken very seriously. What happens, for example, if machines are given control in sensitive conflicts or if terrorists get hold of them? We have a responsibility to act while there is time. In the media in recent weeks it has appeared in answers from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs that Sweden now has conditions to push for an effective ban. I would therefore like to ask Ann Linde what the position of the government is as regards autonomous weapons.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-123	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Janine Alm Ericson, for the question! The government will be the leader in the work for an effective ban on deadly autonomous weapons systems that are incompatible with the requirements of international law. There are technical and legal challenges to defining autonomous weapons. For us, however, it is a fundamental moral conviction that there must be a person who can be held accountable. We want an effective ban to cover as many as possible, including, of course, those countries that are trying to develop the weapons. However, this does not necessarily mean that they actively support the design of the ban. The government's objective is as broad a consensus as possible. Sweden is pushing in the framework of the Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons for an effective international ban on deadly autonomous weapons systems that are incompatible with the requirements of international law. In line with this ambition, we have given a task to a working group within the International Law and Disarmament Delegation to come up with concrete proposals on how best to drive this work forward.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-126	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the clarification answer. I would also like to take this opportunity to ask what the Foreign Minister sees as the most important thing in order to achieve an effective ban.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-128	Madam President, I would like A broad consensus in the CCV, that is, the Convention on certain conventional weapons, would increase the possibilities for us to have a future effective ban covering all countries. All new weapons, including LAW – l ethal a utonomous w eapons s ystems – must comply with the requirements of international law.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-129	Madam President, I would like In Skåne, the coronapandemia has new and difficult effects. Those who are frontierrs and are now starting to work more at a distance are facing fiscal problems. Work is carried out for the workplace but at a distance. The tax rules require that work be physically carried out in the employer's country, and this is now causing economic and practical problems for workers in an already under pressure situation.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-131	Madam President, I would like I thank Mats Sander for the question. The government has presented a historically large budget for next year with major efforts to facilitate an economic recovery for Sweden after the coronapandemia. It is a budget of over 100 billion. That budget contains a number of measures that also address the particular aggravating circumstances that Sweden has suffered as a result of the pandemic. One is a temporary tax reduction to deal with increased labour costs as a result of the pandemic. That's $5 billion the government's spending next year. Then the government is constantly prepared to go forward with further simplifications to cope with the pandemic.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-135	Madam President, I would like On 27 September, the two rogue states of Azerbaijan and Turkey attacked a small democracy. With them they had bloodthirsty jihadists. We hear regular reports of major war crimes against civilians, and we know that in this conflict there is a clear victim in Armenia and the Republic of Artsach. In Turkey, we see recurring statements and propaganda that demonstrate Erdo中an's desire to build a great-Turkish empire, and it wishes to reflect itself and Turkey as the heir of the Ottoman Empire. There are very good reasons to be concerned about what we see. Mr Erdo中an himself has suggested completing what was started a hundred years ago, namely the genocide against Armenians, which the government has not, to this day, shamefully acknowledged. In view of this, Madam President, I would like the Foreign Minister, Ann Linde, to reply as follows: when will the government set its foot against Azerbaijan and Turkey?
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-138	Madam President, I would like I thank Markus Wiechel for the question. The government is closely following with concern the serious development and escalation of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. The reports of an increase in the number of civilian victims on both sides are particularly alarming. We actively support efforts to bring about the resumption of negotiations and, in the long term, the resolution of conflicts. Right now, the focus is on bringing about a cease-fire. Yesterday, I met the Minsk Group physically and practically, namely Russia, the United States and France, which are trying to bring about a ceasefire and the Special Representative for Nagorno-Karabakh, who also visited me yesterday at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. There is no military solution to this issue; it must be resolved diplomatically and politically.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-142	Madam President, I would like Pandemin is ravaging the world. So many people, families and communities have been affected. It is, of course, important that the world stick together, that we find solutions together to combat covid-19. Next week, the World Health Organisation will hold a meeting, which is of course of great importance in demonstrating the will to do common cause against covid-19. But Taiwan is not allowed in. China is blocking; China should have an interest in opening up to Taiwan. I know that the government supports the approach of inviting Taiwan, but the question is what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has done other than to support that demand – to raise the issue and demand that it be invited.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-145	Madam President, I would like I thank Kerstin Lundgren for the question. It is regrettable that China is trying to limit Taiwan's freedom of movement. The government's starting point is that we are working for the widest possible and comprehensive participation in international cooperation, including in the World Health Organisation. Both Sweden and the EU have an interest in Taiwan being able to participate in international organisations that do not require state status. Sweden has recognised, as have the other EU countries, the People's Republic of China. This means that we are following one-China policy, but that does not mean that we are not calling for Taiwan to be able to participate in, for example, the World Health Organisation.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-148	Madam President, I would like Today, the presidential term ends for Aleksandr Lukasjenko – perhaps the last dictator in Europe – in Belarus. However, he chose to swear himself back in, and this has caused the Berausian people to rise against the injustices and lack of democracy that exist in the country. Every Sunday hundreds of thousands have participated in peaceful demonstrations, but there has been increasing violence and an increasing number of oppositionists have been arrested. The EU has now finally, after much if and but, imposed sanctions. I think I and the Foreign Minister are fundamentally in agreement: Lukasjenko will resign, and new and fair elections will be held. Yet Lukasjenko remains, much on his support from Russia and Vladimir Putin. The question is, what do we do now? What are we doing to support the belarusian people's struggle for democracy? What can Sweden do within the framework of its OSSE Presidency starting at the turn of the year?
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-151	Madam President, I would like I thank Håkan Svenneling for the question. I am fairly sure that on the issue of the development of Belarus Håkan Svenneling, I and the government have no other view than that what is happening is very serious. These are escalating violence, repression of peaceful demonstrators and strikes. Workers are put in prison, and students are also put in prison. The government strongly condemns the use of violence by the Belarian authorities. The government has spent almost 120 million in support of civil society, and we have been pushing for the EU's money, a lot of money, to go to the fight against coronas not to be used by the state but by civil society.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-155	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Civil Affairs Lena Micko. During the current pandemic, our society has faced difficult challenges in a number of areas. We are now seeing local and regionally adapted control restrictions. On this basis, I would like to highlight the role and tasks of county boards in crisis and security work. Our 21 county boards have different conditions in terms of socio-economics, population data and geography, but they also have the same role to play in the role of the state locally and regionally. The regions with elected councillors have an important role to play from their perspective, but the presence of the state is the task of county boards. Visits to county boards and county governors often highlight the importance of cooperation between central government authorities and county boards. How does the Minister for Civil Affairs view the role of county boards based on the current pandemic and crisis management?
i-MZ8dn5ck6FrULHt8wjxHfV	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Per-Per-Arne Håkansson, for the question! Indeed, it has proved during this time that the role of county boards has been strengthened. We have a great dependence on being constantly updated on what it looks like in our country. The role of county administrative boards is also to keep the work done regionally between municipalities and between the region and other actors together. Not least now, it has been a lot about ensuring that the restrictions that exist are complied with and that we are constantly considering what more can be done in the reporting that the county boards regularly do to the government. Now that we have strengthened guidelines in several parts of the country, it is also a matter of county boards being able to go in and limit, for example, the number of people at various conventions. It is an important role that they have, and I very much hope that we will ensure that we continue to have good cooperation between these actors in the country.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-162	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Ann Linde. I was going to look back at the emergence of the pandemic, which is about unsustainable animal husbandry. Our animal consumption results in ecosystems being crowded away and animals being crammed into cages. Of course, this has consequences. This is happening not only on the other side of the world but also in Sweden, for example on our mink farms. Just now, nine mink herds in Sweden were confirmed to be infected, and yesterday Denmark announced that all their minks will be killed to prevent the spread of a mutated corona virus. Working preventively would cost perhaps 1% of the huge sums that go to deal with a pandemic, and according to Ipbe's report from last week, the government should work more proactively than reactively.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-167	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rebecka Le Moine, for the question. This crisis has already affected the global order. The outbreak of the new Corona virus has led to an unprecedented global crisis with enormous direct and indirect consequences, including the consequences that Rebecka Le Moine has in her question. Unfortunately, we have no control over how this virus develops, if there is a second wave – it does, but if there is also a third wave – and if the virus can mutate between animals and humans, which is now being discussed and taken action against in Denmark. The government is very active in international organisations, such as the WHO and others, to see how much data we can get on this and try to work as much as possible to prevent the future effects of the pandemic.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-172	Madam President, I would like I can continue with what Håkan Svenneling talked about – repression in Belarus, where we see that the risk of worse abuse from Lukasjenko and the Belarus regime becomes greater the longer the time goes by and even when the focus on foreign policy issues ends up elsewhere. Last Sunday 200 people were arrested, 3 of whom were journalists, and the vulnerability of journalists is only getting worse. That is why it is a good thing that Lukasjenko now looks to be brought under the auspices of the European Union. It is an important weapon that the EU has to use against human rights offenders. At the same time, it became clear after the belarusic elections and popular protests that it is difficult to get a common EU line through. The Moderates are pushing the line that decisions on, for example, sanctions should be taken by qualified majority instead of, as in today's system, by unanimity. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is how she views the question of a qualified majority in order for the EU to become a heavier player in security and foreign policy.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-176	Madam President, I would like I am in favour of that.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-177	Madam President, I would like France was recently exposed to a wave of brutal terrorist crimes. We particularly welcome President Macron's clear statement against Islamism and for secular democracy. It is, however, a message that is not shared by everyone. For example, in the light of the attacks, the leader of the so-called Islam Academy in Malmö has stated that France's secular tradition is a racist nationalist and worse than the Islamic state. He calls Macron a scoundrel and the President's clear statement against terror an attack on Muslims and Islam. All of this is a bit strange given that this person has received project money from the General Heritage Fund to counter violent Islamism or violent extremism. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Democracy why she believes that a person who expresses such clear support for violent extremism is appropriate in the work against it.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-181	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that the acts that we have seen in both Austria and France and all over the world are, of course, reprehensible and terrible and are to be strongly condemned. I cannot comment on an individual case or case, but my view is that organisations or people who in different ways take a stand for or express views that are not compatible with our democracy should not, of course, receive different types of support from the public. That is also one reason why we are currently working on developing uniform, strengthened democracy conditions for the provision of grants. For example, we are strengthening MUCF's ability to supervise contributions. This is happening in many different parts of our social apparatus. I do not rule out the need to do more, because it is important that we fight these issues vigorously.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-184	Madam President, I would like Over-indebtedness is a major problem. This results in poor health and affects entire families, especially children. Studies show that society's costs can be counted in billions of dollars. There is a clear class perspective here. Low-income people, single people, sick people and the unemployed are more often affected by over-indebtedness. People who are already in difficulties because of the decline in welfare, housing shortages and the deterioration of sickness benefits are getting even more difficult. Still today, people with debts are being drawn from the financial crisis of the 1990s. It is not reasonable for debt to become a life sentence. The Left Party wants to put pressure on the loan companies to make proper credit assessments and not to lend in any way. Borrowing companies that are sloppy should be allowed to take increased responsibility for their own recovery. We also want to introduce a limitation period of 15 years.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-188	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jon Thorbjörnson, for the question! These are really urgent issues, and we are doing a lot in this area. Further action can always be discussed, but it is a question of more stringent legislation and compliance with existing legislation. It is also a question of providing support to the authorities working on this and ensuring that there is an opportunity to have an effect on legislation in time. Prevention needs to be done locally and nationally. I see consumer guidance as an important contribution in this area, and I think it is very important that we can draw the attention of municipalities to the role of consumer guidance in providing information and services, not least for all the different groups of people who need extra support.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-191	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Civil Affairs Lena Micko. Legal grey areas exist in different areas. Beauty treatments are an area where there is a grey area, especially when something goes wrong. It's not a commodity. It also does not count as health care even if the boundaries are sometimes fluid. Sometimes you talk about beauty treatments as something superficial, but it's actually real to the person it's about. In addition, the demands for beauty treatments are unclear, resulting in various serious injuries. Among other things, laser treatments have given burn marks. Beauty treatments are popular, but the protection is weak. One problem for consumers who are dissatisfied with beauty treatments has been the fact that in many cases they lacked the opportunity to have their dispute tried in court. My question is what the government intends to do about this.
i-TNhNwrjCE62SwbXgH2LX7k	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Strömkvist, for the question! The government has presented a bill that is about strengthening the protection of this type of intervention; it can be about operations or other treatments. Only persons with skills and identification – doctors and nurses – shall have the right to perform this type of operation. It's a very important change. Once the damage is done – this is the second part – it is also about strengthening consumer protection. That is a very important question. Patient injury legislation applies here, as does consumer law. Arn has not previously had the opportunity to settle disputes, because they have not had that competence. However, it will now be possible to have it and add it to its meetings. This will enter into force next year, and the government hopes and believes that it will bring about changes.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-197	Madam President, I would like I have been contacted by many refugees who live in Sweden and who are Swedish citizens, both people from Iran and people who are in Turkey, after Turkey helped the Iranian regime to kidnap a Swedish citizen named Habib al-K abi. His wife and children live in Sweden, and they say that he was kidnapped in mid-October during a trip to Turkey. This is not the first time that Turkey has done so; they have sent several Iranians back into captivity. My question is: What does Sweden do? Will Sweden condemn this? Will we have the principled approach to Turkey and Iran that we protect refugees? In fact, Sweden contributes huge sums of money to Turkey to protect human rights. Now several people are in Iranian prison because they want freedom. This guy used to be the leader of the Ahvaz liberation movement. The Arabs are the most vulnerable.
i-KhQShpUShWPamsQapDn2Fj	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Amineh Kakabaveh, for the question. I was as late as two weeks ago in Turkey and then met my Turkish fellow minister. We had long talks on human rights, migration and several other difficult things. What Amineh Kakabaverh is talking about is human rights and the opportunity to have fair trials and not to end up in a situation where you cannot say, raise or express what you want. These are things that we constantly convey to Turkey and, for that matter, also to Iran when we meet Iranian representatives.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-200	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to the Minister for Culture and Democracy. In spring 2019, the Minister called a meeting with the Swedish Sports Federation and SKR to discuss what can be done to get more sports and sports facilities as well as new thinking about them. Boverket has then, according to the Minister, been commissioned to develop a basis for how knowledge of facilities and outdoor environments for sports and leisure can be developed, gathered and conveyed. This assignment will be presented on 1 March next year and implemented in consultation with the Public Health Agency. That's good – very good. But what I bring with me in meetings with municipal representatives is the concern about existing facilities. In many municipalities there are ice rinks and swimming pools from the 70s and 80s. They would require huge investments to meet even current legal requirements on accessibility, safety and the working environment. Will the investigation not contain this problem? If so, why not?
i-MADp6VSzZXvcugPgJmJRA	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for the question! This is an urgent issue that may have been somewhat in the shadow of the enormous challenges posed by the coronapandemy. I am pleased that we, from the government, have now taken this step and given this task to Boverket. It's a very transparent mission. I definitely see that this investigation has the freedom to also be able to look at the problem mentioned by Lotta Finstorp. We will see this as a first step. Let's see what the investigation finds out. SKR and the Swedish Sports Federation are in favour of us taking this step. Then we will have to continue and work on the basis of the proposals on how we can actually do it in the future. It is clear that the facilities need to keep up in order for children and young people to be able to play sports in Sweden today, in a growing society. Thank you for the question.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-206	Madam President, I would like If electricity generation does not cover demand, there is a shortage of electricity, as is the case in the absence of sufficient capacity to transmit the electricity. Sweden has moved into a situation of both power and capacity shortages, where margins have disappeared. Since the Green Party became a government party, the balance of effects has also decreased during each individual year. Last summer, a shortage of wind power, hydropower and nuclear power made it profitable for the first time in a long time to produce electricity in the oil-fired power plant in Karlshamn. Swedish power grids were forced to buy up operation at Ringhals 1 to improve margins. There have never been such large price differences since Sweden was divided into four price areas. This is serious. Yet there is nothing in the fallen energy agreement that addresses these problems. There is nothing in the current energy policy to solve the problems that arise with capacity and power shortages. That is why, Madam President, I would like to ask what measures the government intends to take to address the lack of power and capacity.
i-Vm4dB69KfUAD32gVkJSX7D	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, for the question! True, there are problems with effect. In some places these have existed for a very limited time. However, we in Sweden today have historically large surpluses of electricity. In some places there are local capacity challenges. This is not something that has arisen in recent years, but we have had a very backward expansion of power transmission in Sweden. What do we do to remedy this? In the long term, we need more transfer. Swedish power grids are now multiplying investments, and the Network Concession investigation has put forward proposals on how lead times can be shortened to give permission to build new power lines. In the short term, the government has commissioned the county administrative boards to identify these problems and to propose solutions. This has been done in Stockholm and Skåne together with local electricity grid owners, so that existing customers should have safe access to electricity all days of the year.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-211	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde. There are many of us who have believed in the transition to democracy that has taken place in Ethiopia. In the last six months, however, we have seen an increase in concerns, not least regarding ethnic tensions. Sometimes this has happened with a fatal outcome. Several opposition politicians have been arrested. The other night, while there were presidential elections across the Atlantic, strife broke out between the federal government and the regional state of Tigray. Sweden and Ethiopia have long been linked to each other. It is difficult to see that there is a military solution to this conflict, but it must be done with dialogue – both national dialogue between the parties in Ethiopia and dialogue between the warring parties. My question, Madam President, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is this: how does the Minister for Foreign Affairs view the role of Sweden and the European Union in this?
i-Mxzfdn7vQjv32RetUY2fwg	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Petter Löberg, for the question! Ethiopia is in an extensive process of change. In parallel with reforms that strengthen the country's democracy, violence and conflicts have continued. The events of the last few days, with a large number of deaths in Welega on 1 November and the military escalation between federal and regional levels in Tigray, are particularly worrying. Violence cannot be the way forward, and it risks destabilising Ethiopia and the region. The conflict can only be resolved through dialogue between the parties concerned. The government and the EU fully support the reconciliation between Ethiopia and Eritrea. The agreement opens up a historic opportunity for positive and sustainable development in the Horn of Africa. At the same time, the process seems to have stalled, and we had, of course, hoped that the effects of peace would be felt more clearly by the common people at this point in time.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-217	Madam President, I would like This morning we were able to read that Solresor has gone bankrupt, which naturally means that Solresors's activities are now ending. Sun trips, which have been Sweden's fourth largest charter organiser and which was founded in 1989–31 years of travel, competent employees and happy travelers– are now going to the grave. Solar travel and other companies in the travel industry have ended up in an extremely tough financial situation due to the coronapandemine and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' travel restrictions. Most trips have been cancelled since spring. It can almost be said that they have been banned for almost eight months, and the future does not look very bright. Other direct payments have been decided by the government but not by the travel industry.
i-626PmPdNbVg38XLCLtJDJK	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Alexandra Anstrell, for the question. Yes, the government has presented exceptional support to help all companies over this crisis. We have gone in with special support for our regional airports. Swedavia has also had the opportunity to cope with this crisis. We have gone in with support, among other things, to partly state-owned SAS. We have gone in with very large general support that all companies receive, as we have removed employers' contributions, companies receive conversion support and we have taken on sick pay costs. That goes for everyone. Then we can see that the pandemic situation in the world, with the restrictions applied by other countries, makes it particularly difficult for the travel industry and the companies that organise trips abroad. This is not something the government has control over.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-222	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for the Environment and Climate, Isabella Lövin, who also answers general policy questions. During the current pandemic, under pressure from the opposition, compensation has been introduced for people at risk to stay at home and not expose themselves to dangerous contamination. However, the government's actions have been unpredictable, and this has put many people already at risk. At the end of September, an extension was announced, but it only turned out to be applicable to the application period. Only when the opposition pressed on came an amending budget with an extended payment period until the end of the year. The Minister for Social Security informed earlier that there was no intention at all from the government to extend after 31 December, but after the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Left put a joint initiative in the Social Security Committee, the government changed. And suddenly, as was said in the initiative, an extension was announced until March. It is good that the government is acting. But how is it that the government has been so reluctant about this contribution? They tried to stall and did not act until they realized that they had the majority against them and that the race was over.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-227	Madam President, I would like The government, Sweden and the world are in an exceptional time with a pandemic that has hit the world in a way that we have never seen before. The government has acted very forcefully and very early to save businesses, to make it easier for people, to provide resources for health care and also to relieve regions and municipalities of the additional costs of the pandemic. Now, as Mrs Julia said, we have announced that we will extend the compensation to risk groups until March. After all, the government has presented a budget for next year of over 100 billion, a historically large budget. We have come forward with more than ten additional amending budgets this year. And we will continue to do everything we can to ensure that people are not unduly affected during the pandemic.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-231	Madam President, I would like The murder of French teacher Samuel Paty has shaken everyone who defends democracy and freedom of expression. What happened in France could also happen in Sweden. According to representatives of the Swedish teachers' unions, teachers do not feel safe to teach about democracy and freedom of expression. They lack the support of the government and society. Teachers are threatened if they mention the Holocaust or say something that annoys Islamic fanatics. This undoubtedly leads to self-censorship and erosion of our free society and human rights.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-234	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Boriana Åberg, for an important question you raise! Sweden must and must protect freedom of expression. It is, of course, absolutely terrible to have this kind of expression where it is a question of not being able to stand up for freedom of expression, of feeling threatened and hated and, not least, of censored to silence. This is a problem that we have been pointing out for a long time and which I, as Minister for Democracy, have been working on. No matter where you are exposed, you risk being intimidated into silence and thus not making your voice heard. We have an action plan against threats and hatred, which we have been funding for a number of years. We will now look further towards the coming years at what we will focus our work on the future. Then I see that issues of freedom of expression, the risk of self-censorship, threats and hatred should continue to be high priority.
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-239	Madam President, I would like I have a general political question. Despite the government's promises of more police officers, the police density is now lower than ten years ago, and the Swedish police density is among the lowest in the EU. Today, every fifth place in police training is empty. The police profession is one of the most honorable occupations one can choose and should also be paid accordingly. If the attractiveness of the police profession is not increased, the target of 10,000 more police workers will not be reached. Politics is about prioritising. In this context, the government chooses to spend almost twice as much money on international aid as on the police. The Moderates give a different priority and have proposed, among other things, a special salary scheme for the police, paid police training where the student debt is written off after five years of service and measures to reinstate retired police officers. My question to Isabella Lövin is: Why doesn't the government do more to increase the attractiveness of the police profession?
i-b0a9d051ae54e3f7-244	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magdalena Schröder, for the question! The government has set a target for us to have 10,000 more employees in the Police Department by 2024. Now we're halfway there. By mid-2020, the number of employees had increased by more than 5,000 since this initiative began. It's proof that the Police Authority is now an attractive employer. The figures also show that fewer and fewer police officers are stopping and more than one in four police officers have been reinstated. Police training goes for high pressure. In the last round of applications, there were over 20 000 applicants to 1 000 places. To receive the influx of new police officers, the government has decided to start two new police training courses, in Malmö and in Borås. The government's investment in 10,000 more police employees is solid. At present, growth is faster than forecast, and according to the Police Authority the target will be reached.
