i-Rs1LbzFghMZjpAAWcofsMw	Mr. Old President! What we are going to debate now is the Committee on Transport's report No 13, Prohibition of use and display of vehicles with unpaid parking errors. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 1. Mr. Old President! Proposal 2019/ 20:67 proposes legislative proposals aimed at solving problems with vehicle-related debts and the problem of vehicle goaltenders. We would like to emphasise that it is positive that measures are being taken that make it difficult for vehicle keepers to own vehicles and to incur large debts. On the other hand, the proposed measures in the proposal are not comprehensive in order to solve the problem. Error parking fees and vehicle tax are among the largest individual debt types in the Swedish Enforcement Authority's register. A significant part of the debts can be attributed to vehicle goaltenders. By using a so-called goaltender, the actual owner of the vehicle avoids liability for vehicle-related taxes and charges as the liability rests on the goaltender. In February 2018, the 100 most indebted vehicle holders had debts of SEK 367.6 million. The same persons were simultaneously registered owners of 25 019 vehicles. At the turn of 2017 – 2018, the total amount of debt in relation to vehicle liabilities amounted to SEK 1.9 billion. The situation speaks clearly: it takes tightening up to get to car goaltenders, goaltender vehicles and vehicle-related debts. The goalkeeper pays neither taxes nor fees, and the state thus misses out on large revenues. This is currently almost SEK 2 billion in vehicle-related debts to the government. There is a need for a rapid investigation into how best to solve the problem of these goaltenders. The Swedish Democrats have proposed a number of measures to tackle the problem: the management of vehicles, a larger mandate to the Swedish Enforcement Authority, shorter respite time, that the total debt of the vehicle should be the starting point, a ban on debt-claiming persons becoming new owners of more vehicles, debt relief for vehicles in the event of execution, and that inspection fees should be counted as vehicle debts. Mr. Old President! When a debt on a vehicle amounts to SEK 5 000, the vehicle should be disposed of without delay until the debt is settled. If the debt is not settled within the time limit, the vehicle should be sold through the Swedish Enforcement Authority. At six months' respite, as in the proposal, there is a risk that the car keepers will incur even greater debts. A more reasonable period of time is 30 days. The total liability of the vehicle shall be the basis for disposal, regardless of the previous owner. This will prevent a vehicle from being moved between different goalkeepers, thereby making intervention by the authorities more difficult. No distinction shall be made between the parking error fee and the inspection fee. As a result, an inspection fee may also involve a vehicle-related liability. Private-law claims relating to the ownership of vehicles, including inspection fees, shall be liable to result in a prohibition of use. This should be done in combination with a ban on use under the bug parking fee law. A debtor should not be able to register as the owner of vehicles, and a ban on becoming the new owner of more vehicles for persons with vehicle debts exceeding SEK 5 000 needs to be introduced. In essence, the Swedish Democrats are in favour of the bill, but we urge that it be tightened up in accordance with our reservation No 1.
i-XVmPtTvUgHGbGXwK9Qbw4v	Mr. Old President! The statistics of the Swedish Enforcement Authority show that vehicle-related debts to the general government are increasing over time despite the fact that a large part of the claims are time-barred each year. At the turn of the year 2017/ 18, the total amount of the debt amounted to SEK 1.9 billion. Of the approximately 100,000 debtors with vehicle-related liabilities to the general government, the 100 most indebted in February 2018 together had debts amounting to SEK 367.6 million. The same 100 debtors were registered owners of 25 019 vehicles in February 2018. Of these 3,908 vehicles were registered on a single debtor. He's probably got a big garage. Four persons were registered owners of over 2,000 vehicles, 13 were registered owners of over 500 vehicles and 35 were registered owners of over 100 vehicles. Error parking fees and vehicle taxes are, in terms of the number of debtors, among the largest individual debt types in the Swedish Enforcement Authority's register, and the amount of the debt for these debts at year-end 2017/18 amounted to 1.5 billion. According to the Government, the amount of debt for parking errors and vehicle tax has increased over time by an average of approximately SEK 100 million per year. Mr. Old President! In the bill, the government proposes that it be prohibited to use a vehicle with unpaid parking fees and that a police officer or a car inspector should take care of the vehicle registration plates if the prohibition of use is violated. The Christian Democrats note that the Government's legislative proposal aims to tighten up the legislation against vehicle goaltenders, which is a good thing. However, the use of vehicle goaltenders is a growing social problem, which means that the state loses large revenues and also complicates the police's investigation work. We share the government's desire to strengthen the Swedish judicial system's ability to intervene against vehicle guardians, but we do not believe that the proposal is strong enough to have the desired effect. We believe that the deadline for imposing a ban on use should be set at 3 months instead of 6 months. Several consultation bodies support the proposal that a vehicle should not be used if parking errors amounting to more than SEK 5 000 have not been paid and it has been at least 6 months since the last payment was due, but many consultation bodies point out that they want the government to take further action. For example, Motormännen has doubts as to whether the proposal will have a significant impact on the number of vehicle goaltenders, while the City of Malmö points out that there is a risk that the vehicle will be used even though it has a ban on use. Uppsala Municipality proposes that the time for notifying a ban be set at 3 months instead of 6 months, which is a proposal that we support. We believe that a police officer or a car inspector should have the right to dispose of a vehicle when a prohibition of use is infringed and the vehicle is used without a registration plate. The Government's proposal means that the vehicle's registration plates shall be capable of being taken care of by a police officer or a car inspector if the vehicle is used in violation of a prohibition of use. We note that several consultation bodies point to the risk of vehicles being used even without a registration plate. We want to emphasise that the Swedish Motor Insurance Association believes that the police should have the opportunity to confiscate cars whose debts are not paid. The government comments on this proposal that it would be an overly intrusive response to the offence of not paying their parking errors. At the same time, the Government considers that the purpose of the prohibition of use is that the vehicle should not be used at all. We believe that legislation should be designed in such a way as to prevent unauthorised use of the vehicle. We also believe that the main problem is not about misparking charges, but about how the policy should close loopholes that serious criminals have been able to exploit for too long. I just want to remind you of Al Capone in the '30s and '40s. You couldn't get to him through ordinary law enforcement. He was finally taken on the tax side. Mr. Old President! The Christian Democrats are behind their reservation No. 2.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-18	Mr. Old President! Today we are dealing with the report on the ban on use and the display of vehicles with unpaid debts. This is an important step in remedying the problems we have had regarding parking debts, vehicle goaltenders and goaltender vehicles. The bill presents various efforts that have been made so far to address these problems. The authorities have worked together to find solutions, and new legislation has been introduced. On 1 July 2014, the Act on the right to use vehicles for claims on certain taxes and charges was introduced. Certain amendments were also made to the Act on the Movement of Vehicles. The Act on the right to use vehicles provided for the possibility to use vehicles with unpaid debts. The amendments to the Migration Act and the Migration Regulation mean that it is possible to move misparked vehicles with unpaid and due fault parking fees and that such vehicles need not be returned to the owner until the debts have been paid.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-19	We now see that the rate of increase in vehicle-related debts has slowed down somewhat. A large number of vehicles with unpaid parking errors have been moved and removed from traffic under the new rules. Relatively few vehicles, on the other hand, have been used under the law. We note that the legislation introduced in 2014 has had positive effects, but the stakeholders are said to agree that further action is needed to address the problems. The proposal therefore proposes that the sanctions may be applied to vehicles with unpaid parking errors. I do not think we can rest and believe that we have solved all the problems with, among other things, vehicle goalkeepers. It is incredibly important that we continue to work on this issue in order to close the gaps that will exist. However, this is a step in the right direction. We in the committee agree that the proposal is a good one. What separates us is how long you should have to pay your debt and when the vehicle is to be used. Some people want tougher rules. Others want to go a little softer. As early as September last year, the government therefore commissioned an investigator to carry out a review of legislation on, among other things, the movement of vehicles. That investigation shall be completed by 1 September 2020. Mr. Old President! Finally, I would like to endorse the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-23	Mr. Old President! Today's debate is about the Committee on Transport's report on aviation issues. These are issues that are highly topical. They are not only relevant in the current crisis with the corona, but they have also been up to date since a long time ago. The aviation industry is facing major changes, and there are no clear political guidelines from the government as to whether aircraft should be developed or phased out. Unfortunately, the issues we discussed last year at this time still remain. The Arlanda Council has not produced a final report. The government has different views on Bromma's being or not being and on how the new runway at Arlanda will be, depending on which party's government representative is speaking in the media. There is also a lack of a roadmap for the switch to electric aircraft. In addition to this, the crisis affects all infrastructure, especially aviation. Because of the coronan, flights are more or less stable throughout the world. The airports in the Stockholm area are listed on the black list by the European Aviation Safety Authority, as we have not been able to prevent the proliferation of coronans. Some airlines in Sweden go bankrupt, and others fire more than half of their staff. Regional airports are dying of soot death without state aid or airline revenues – airlines that cannot operate today. The government has come up with some support measures, but that is far from sufficient. The regional airports are important for a functioning infrastructure, so that the whole of Sweden can live and function as before. The risk of the loss of businesses and jobs is now high. Regional infrastructure has been built up for many years. If it disappears now, it's not likely to ever come back. If Sweden is to continue to function, we must be a welfare nation, and it is not good for Swedish business if our regional airports disappear. It is also directly dangerous when the ability of local preparedness to act quickly is taken away. Mr. Old President! Today's debate, however, is about issues that were topical before the coronapendem, and there are some things where we from the Moderates have different views from those of the government parties. A major and important issue concerns the survival of all of Sweden's regional airports. Sweden needs workable domestic flights in order for the whole country to function and stick together. It is also important to ensure life-saving community functions such as ambulances, fire planes and emergency flights. Domestic aviation will be needed in both the short and long term in Sweden. Many regional and municipal airports find it difficult to reconcile the budget. National money in the form of operating grants will be required for airports to survive. It is not really a question of spending money, but more of the state actually paying for the commitments that we want in crisis situations. This applies, for example, to the ambulance flight, which is important now under the coronapndemine. We want the fire plane, too. We remember all the fires that have been around Sweden during the summers. From the regional airports you also fly to Arlanda and Bromma, which is operated by Swedavia. Swedavia could therefore compensate regional airports with operating aid. That's how we use taxpayers' money wisely. In the wake of the corona, we Moderates have also put forward a proposal for an aid package directly addressed to regional airports of SEK 100 million. The money will be needed and is a direct survival issue, so that the airports are not at risk of being shut down, as is now happening in Ängelholm and soon in Västerås. Now it remains to be seen whether the government and its support parties also support this when the proposal is to be debated and voted on in this House later. Mr. Old President! As important as a functioning domestic flight is international air traffic, in order for Sweden to be able to develop and create strong companies and more jobs. Many international companies put their Nordic offices around Arlanda and the Stockholm region, as the region has been dynamic and easy to get to and from. If we seriously want Sweden to attract business and tourists, Arlanda must be rebuilt and expanded. In addition, expansion would lead to major environmental improvements and preparation for infrastructure around, among other things, electric aviation. A modern, competitive airport could have increased capacity, equipped terminals and improved public transport to and from the airport. It is therefore both serious and very tragic that the work in and around the Arlanda Council has not been of any use. The Arlanda Council needs to take up its work and continue to develop Arlanda and Swedish aviation. I have already spoken warmly for domestic aviation, but I have not mentioned the issue of Bromma airport enough. Bromma is not a local Stockholm Airport, as some parties sometimes want to claim. Bromma is Sweden's local airport in Stockholm, a prerequisite for quickly and easily reaching our capital. By flying to and from Bromma you can get from every corner of Sweden from door to door in a few hours. Bromma airport connects Sweden and is needed for the whole country to live with fast access to our capital. Mr. Old President! There is so much more to talk about when it comes to the flight, and there is so much more we could do if only the will existed. I hope that in the future aviation will have an increasing place in our discussions and in the continued discussions on Swedish infrastructure. Air traffic will play a crucial role in climate change, but then we cannot ban and make it more difficult for aviation. It is not aviation itself that is the problem, it is the fuel. Mr. Old President! We Moderates are, of course, behind all our reservations, but, in order not to mention too much of the precious time of this House in these times of crisis, we are today opting for the approval of reservation 1 only on the importance of regional airports for the whole of Sweden to live and develop.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-40	Mr. Old President! We are going to discuss report 12, aviation issues. First of all, I would like to say that the Swedish Democrats support all our reservations in the report, but in order to save time at voting time, I only ask for reservation 8. Mr. Old President! Flying is living. That's the title of a book that I have at home in the bookshelf. Although the book is based on the fighter pilot's sense of being one with the air sea, it can easily be transferred to aviation and its development as a vital part of our infrastructure. The Swedish Democrats see the great importance of aviation in Swedish society. Air transport meets both citizens' and business' needs for travel and transport. However, the strategy for a competitive Swedish aviation industry does not only extend to aviation as a mode of transport. All modes of transport should be included in comprehensive transport and infrastructure planning. In a well-functioning and sustainable society, conditions must be in place for the Swedish aviation industry to interact with other modes of transport, whether it concerns the supply of food to a local store in the Swedish countryside, the carriage of vehicles to the international mining industry, regional passenger transport or national business trips. Central government practice and important societal functions such as defence, civil protection, health care and police are also in great need of aviation as a means of transport as well as its associated infrastructure. Mr. Old President! The current pandemic has certainly highlighted the importance of a well-functioning infrastructure, not least our need for functional regional airports. There are 34 non-governmental regional airports in the member organisation Svenska Regional Airports. The principals of airports are mostly municipalities, but there are also other ownership constellations. Non-governmental airports have been severely affected by the crisis and the travel restrictions imposed by the new virus. By comparison, travel at state-owned Swedavia's ten airports has decreased by 60 per cent in March to 1.3 million passengers. In April, the decrease had increased to about 97 per cent. The impact of reduced travel is also significant for non-state airports across the country that are losing their revenues. Several airports have been forced to leave short-term staff, and the member organisation warns that most airports will limit or cease the activities necessary to keep airports open to traffic. In addition to being of strategic interest in meeting business needs for communications, regional airports have an important role to play in receiving socially critical traffic such as ambulances, fire-fighting aircraft, police and military. Mr. Old President! The pandemic has had a negative impact on aviation, and the effects risk affecting our country's future ability to offer fast and efficient transport, especially in the north. Flying, like other infrastructure, is an important piece of the puzzle in our society. The need to move towards a more sustainable way of flying is a matter of course, and we see a series of new technical solutions that can contribute to a more sustainable flight in the future. Research on electric flights should be monitored, although some obstacles exist to compete on a large scale with the existing industry. However, research in the field of fuels is progressing in all areas, including battery and charging infrastructure. For example, when the energy conditions between today's fuel and tomorrow's batteries are evened out, electric aviation will be more competitive. This can in the long term benefit Sweden, as Swedish electricity production is already largely free from fossil emissions. The Swedish aviation industry contributes about 40 000 direct jobs, and the industry is both directly and indirectly linked to all types of companies throughout the supply chain regardless of size, corporate form or profession. The industry also cooperates with everything from local service companies to global multi-companies. The aeronautics industry is also research intensive with a close relationship to, for example, the space industry and other high-tech areas. Trainings, access to adequate labour and reputable Swedish companies in the aviation industry also result in Sweden being well placed to continue to operate a strong Swedish aviation industry. The importance of a functioning air transport operation in the country and a well-functioning airport structure throughout the country have been talked about earlier here from the speaker's seat. Whether we live in Vilhelmina, Gällivare or on Gotland, it should be easy and fast to move around. This applies both to those who work in the industry and to the transport of health professionals. It's extremely important. The flight is an important cog in our entire infrastructure. We must protect our Swedish aviation industry.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-56	Mr. Old President! We have all been dealing so far with the difficult situation now prevailing in the country and throughout the world as a result of the covid-19 pandemic. I think we are all very much in agreement on how hard this has hit the aviation industry in all its parts. It is therefore important to make it easier for the aviation sector to overcome the current situation in the future. We must point out that major consequences have been caused by the proliferation of covid-19. In the context of the urgent work to reduce the climate impact of the transport sector, we in the Center Party want to point out that the principle of chasing emissions, not transport, should, of course, also apply to aviation. It is not the flight itself that is the problem, but the emissions it generates. The flight is one of five modes of transport. That is why it is important to maintain and make aviation accessible to people throughout the country. The Center Party would therefore stress the need for a sustainable aviation sector and the importance of the introduction of effective instruments that lead to technological development and reductions in aviation emissions both internationally and nationally. The Centre Party believes that the pace of change for the increased use of renewable fuels in the aviation industry needs to be increased, and this requires several different measures. It is therefore important to focus efforts on research and development of biofuels for aviation. Furthermore, it is important that consumers have access to information on the emissions generated by air travel so that demand can affect the supply of air travel in particular. As the climate impact of aviation is global, cooperation at international level is important in order to find joint actions that contribute to reducing aviation emissions. We therefore believe that Sweden must be a driving force in international negotiations in order for aviation to pay for its climate costs. Mr. Old President! The Center Party, together with the government and the Liberals, has reached a substantive political agreement. We in the Center Party believe that it is very positive that the January agreement includes a point aimed at reducing the climate impact of aviation. We would also like to point out that in the January agreement there is a point where there is a requirement to introduce mandatory inclusion of renewable fuel and to review the possibility of introducing environmentally-governing take-off and landing charges. The Center Party would also like to point out that there should be financial incentives for a high level of interference with sustainable renewable fuel and that when an aviation fuel tax system is in place, it should replace today's ticket tax on aviation. Mr. Old President! We would like to point out that Sweden's great distance means that people are completely dependent on aviation, and for business it must be easy to get to other destinations within the country and then further out into the world. As regional airports connect Sweden and create jobs, they increase opportunities for tourism, and they are responsible for, for example, fire and ambulance flights operating throughout the country, we from the Center Party believe that it is important that the government systematically works to strengthen the conditions for Swedish flights. In the long term, we also need to work to ensure that Swedavia's profit sharing model should be reviewed in order to strengthen the functionality of regional airports, as in several cases they have a difficult economic situation. This has been exacerbated by covid-19. The Government has set up an airport review to review the long-term role of the State as a support provider for non-state airports. However, we note that this review has not yet been reported. The Center Party would therefore stress that it is urgent for the state to create long-term sustainable operating conditions in order to facilitate the provision of regional non-governmental airports. Mr. Old President! We would like to emphasise that the environmental and climate impact of aviation must be reduced in order to contribute to Sweden's national climate goals and international commitments. At the same time, this must be done in such a way that the accessibility target is not jeopardised. There is today a rapid technological development in aviation where electric and hybrid flights will be on the market within a few years. We believe that the introduction of electric flights should be facilitated, and greater government commitment is needed to exploit the full potential of electric flights. Unfortunately, the flight strategy adopted in 2017 deals with electric flights a little. Sweden also lacks a political target for electric flights, which can be compared to Norway, which has an explicit target in the Norwegian Government Agreement. There is a clear policy objective for electric flights, which means that domestic flights should be electrified in 2040. We therefore believe that the Government should give the Swedish Transport Agency, the Swedish Transport Agency, the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority and the Swedish Energy Agency a joint task to analyse the conditions for the introduction of electric flights in Sweden, investigate the conditions for an innovation procurement of electric flights for the procurement of routes with public service obligations and consider a national target for electric flights. Mr. Old President! Of course, the Center Party supports our reservations and specific opinions in the report on aviation issues, but we shall not ask for the approval of all reservations but have decided to ask for the approval of reservation 3, regional airports.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-70	Mr. Old President! We will debate aviation issues today. Before I go into the areas where we Christian Democrats have reserved, I note that we are talking about an industry in crisis. For my part, I sat on the Transport Committee and was responsible for aviation issues when the United States was subjected to a terrible terrorist attack on 11 September 2001. If you look at the fall that occurred at the time, it was considerably less than the total shutdown that is taking place at the moment. Over 90% of all international flights are stationary, and it will take years before communications are restored. The government has taken some steps to parry this, but unfortunately it is all too obvious that the environmental party's ideological blockage in aviation has prevented the Swedish airlines and airports, as well as the companies serving this part of Swedish public transport, from receiving the same support as in our neighbouring countries. This reluctance to support in a crisis situation risks damaging aviation for a long time to come, which in itself will hamper Swedish business and make it more difficult for individuals to move around in and outside Sweden. Mr. Old President! We believe that the regional airports in Sweden have a major role to play in ensuring that communications in Stockholm and other destinations in Sweden and the world work. Through Swedavia, the Swedish State has registered the major airports. The smaller non-governmental airports are located throughout the country and are mainly owned by the municipalities with the support of the regions and the state. These airports are very important for the regions, while they find it more difficult to create a range that makes them bear their own costs. We believe that the financing of small airports needs to be reviewed in order to create long-term sustainable solutions. It is therefore a good thing that such work is under way, and we look forward to seeing the investigation under way in the Government Office, according to the Minister for Infrastructure. Today, it is the State that procures air traffic on designated routes through the Finnish Transport Agency, which is not considered interesting for commercial air traffic. On the other hand, regions or municipalities may not procure routes, even if the requirements for public service obligations laid down in the EU air transport regulation are met. However, municipalities and regions that own local airports have the right to support them through ownership support. The current regulatory framework therefore means that passive support is okay, but that active support for the traffic that is deemed necessary to develop its own region is not allowed. Instead of this type of passive aid, municipalities and regions should be given the opportunity to procure regional air traffic. Air transport is an important part of public transport that serves the whole country. In other parts of the EU, both the state and regions and municipalities have the opportunity to decide to procure air traffic, and we find it unsatisfactory that this possibility is lacking in Sweden despite the fact that our country is one of the most geographically extended countries in Europe. We are protecting regional airports, which is why we want to make it possible to procure regional traffic. Mr. Old President! Given the very difficult situation that has now arisen as a result of the covid-19 pandemic, we can unfortunately see that the aviation industry in all its parts has also been hit extremely hard. We therefore believe that it is important to make it easier for the aviation sector to get through the current situation, and we would like to point out the importance of dealing with the major consequences that have affected the aviation industry on the basis of the proliferation of covid-19. We would like to emphasise that the environmental and climate impact of aviation must be reduced in order to contribute to Sweden's national climate goals and international commitments. At the same time, this must be done in such a way that the accessibility target is not jeopardised. There is currently rapid technological development in aviation, where electric and hybrid flights will be on the market within a few years. We believe that the introduction of electric flights should be facilitated and that greater government commitment is needed to exploit the full potential of electric flights. Unfortunately, the flight strategy adopted in 2017 deals only with electric flights in summary terms. Sweden also lacks a political target for electric flights. It can be related to Norway, which has a stated objective in the Norwegian Government Agreement and also a clear political target for electric flights that means that domestic flights should be electrified in 2040. We therefore believe that the Government should give the Swedish Transport Agency, the Swedish Transport Agency, the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority and the Swedish Energy Agency a joint task to analyse the conditions for the introduction of electric flights in Sweden, investigate the conditions for innovation procurement of electric flights for procured routes with public service obligations and consider a national target for electric flights. In conclusion, we believe that Sweden should continue to be at the forefront of the green conversion of air traffic. That is why, among other things, we have allocated 100 million in our budget for research on more environmentally friendly aeronautics. We also believe that Sweden should work within the EU as well as other international bodies for common rules that reduce the climate impact of aviation. Mr. Old President! We note that in recent years there have been reports of several serious incidents involving drones in the protected airspace. These incidents have involved the risk of aircraft accidents, severe financial losses for airlines and delays for passengers. We note that it is already prohibited today to fly drones in the vicinity of airports without permission and that owners and pilots of drones flying in protected zones are thus committing an aviation crime. In order for this to be prosecuted and to counteract infringements, we believe that manufacturers should introduce some kind of signalling system that identifies the drone and connects it to the owner. Against this background, we believe that the government should initiate a system whereby each drone can be linked to an owner. Mr. Old President! I support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 4.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-86	Mr. Old President! Today's debate is on aviation issues, and I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' reservation No 5 on the Swedish regional airports. Mr. Old President! Just over six months ago, when the parties in this House tabled their motions, we had no idea that the whole aviation area would collapse in the spring. We thought from the point of view that we must make aviation more climate-neutral and that airports in Sweden must have reasonable conditions in order to be able to conduct healthy business. Then came the coronavirus, and suddenly the conditions changed completely. What was previously planned was no longer at the top of the list. A whole industry was set on the bar slope with no income in and large wage costs and fixed costs to pay out. This was shared with many other industries in Sweden and is still shared both in Sweden and globally, but aviation was hit extremely hard due to travel restrictions. No one wanted people from other countries before they got control of the virus nationally, and nationally they did not want to spread the virus between different senders. Today 80% of domestic flights and 90% of international flights have been put on the ground. These are figures you can barely take in, and they look the same all over the world. Now it has been three months without revenue, and the result can be seen in the extreme notice put forward. SAS has announced 5,000 people, 40% of its personnel. The airline Bra is in reconstruction and has announced virtually all personnel. Norwegian has announced 400. The Swedish Civil Aviation Authority has announced 500, nearly 50 percent of its personnel. Swedavia has announced 800, well over 30 percent of the staff. It's a long list, and it's just the biggest organizations. The organizations are bleeding, and individuals are severely affected. In the event of such a loss of competence, the possibility of re-starting aircraft is also made more difficult. Mr. Old President! We want strong government action to save the aviation industry. The measures taken so far have had some effect, but the big ones speak clearly. It has not been enough, and if Sweden is to maintain a functioning aviation industry in the future, strong action is needed now. Both airlines and the Swedish infrastructure in the form of airports, traffic management and ancillary services must receive targeted efforts as soon as possible. I and the Liberals are convinced that there is broad support in Sweden for us to have a fully functioning flight. It is necessary for us to bridge the long distances in our elongated country, so that we have a reasonable opportunity to travel home, no matter where we live, and many destinations to choose from our major hubs to get out into the world without having to start from Oslo, Copenhagen or Helsinki. Private individuals want to be able to travel on vacation and discover other parts of the world or just visit family and friends. Air travel is also a prerequisite for our many international companies to be able to meet customers and suppliers and transport goods with short delivery time. This is fundamental for a country like Sweden with our great export dependency. Sweden also plays a very important role in different global contexts in relation to our size. If we want to continue to influence at that level, we must have good conditions for being physically in place. This, Mr. Old President, became a fire speech for the flight. But we in the Liberals are convinced of the important role of aviation in the future of Sweden and its inhabitants. In the short term, the economic downturn is the biggest threat to the aviation industry. If you don't make any money, you can't go on in the long run. Direct support is therefore required now. In a longer perspective, it is aviation's impact on the climate we need to focus on and solve in order to retain the benefits of aviation. For the Liberals, it is not aviation itself that is the problem, but emissions. That's where we want to focus our efforts. We believe that air travellers think that the choice between paying a few hundred extras for biofuels or not flying at all is quite easy. It was the emissions we focused on when we wrote our exercise, in another time. Liberals still believe in effective instruments that lead to technological development. Reduction obligation for aviation is an important measure that gradually and together with technology development can reduce emissions both in Sweden and globally. Targeted efforts are needed in research and development of biofuels. With regard to take-off and landing charges, we should, in the short term, follow developments in our environment so that we do not punish Swedish flights and as a result have a further weakened aviation industry and significantly higher costs in the long term. In essence, however, the charging system should be developed to take account of the amount of biofuels used in flights. The Liberals, in line with our idea of reducing aviation emissions, also want to introduce a system of aviation fuel tax based on emissions and thus replace today's air fare tax. As most of the Swedish climate impact occurs globally, it is also important that we work together at international level to reduce emissions and that we push for aviation to bear its climate costs, for example through an aviation fuel tax. We also believe that it is important for consumers to be able to see the climate impact of different trips and look forward to the investigation that will propose a climate statement for different trips, including flights. Mr. Old President! In addition to biofuels, electric aviation is an important opportunity to address the climate impact of aviation, in Sweden as well as globally. The area also has, based on Sweden's extensive aviation expertise, an opportunity to become a new industrial branch in Sweden. Liberals believe in the potential of technology. The state should therefore invest in research and development in this area. Electricity has the potential to make short-haul flights between different regions and not least between different Nordic cities profitable, which also points to the importance of regional airports as a complement to the major hubs. I welcome the fact that, in January of this year, the Government commissioned Traffic Analysis to carry out an analysis of appropriate measures to promote the development and use of electric aircraft. It is also important to review the role of regional airports in the forthcoming airport strategy. I exercised last autumn that a study should be set up on what measures are needed to promote Swedish electric flights. Since the Liberals have been involved in drafting the directives for the investigation, I have put forward our proposals from the motion in a separate opinion. Liberals will closely monitor developments in the field of electric aviation. In conclusion, Mr President-in-Office, I would like to say that we must work together to ensure that the aviation industry in Sweden takes off again and starts making money. Only then will it be possible to manage the major investments in new technologies and biofuels needed to make aviation climate neutral in the long term. As aviation's climate issues largely fall within the scope of the January agreement, we have presented our climate action, including those relating to electric aviation, as specific opinions. We therefore support reservation 5 on Swedish regional airports today, given the economic situation of aviation and the strategic importance of regional airports for future electric flights, the country's preparedness and the ability to connect the country.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-108	Mr. Old President! Today we are dealing with the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism. My speech, Mr President-in-Office, would have looked quite different if we had not had a pandemic to consider. The current pandemic has hit our society hard. That is why I should first like to express my condolences to all those who have lost one of their loved ones. Mr. Old President! As we have heard here from the speaker, the Pandemin has hit the aviation industry hard above all. In one week in March, nearly 90 per cent of passengers disappeared. It is a harsh reality that struck an industry that had already begun to get declining figures. People began using other means of transport to reduce the impact of climate change in particular. The industry itself had started to take big steps to find a way to become more climate neutral. A lot of good things have happened. One example is Heart Aerospace, which hopes to get an electric flight in the air already in 2025 – only a few years away. SAS and Airbus work together to develop larger flights that should be more environmentally friendly. They expect to have a climate-neutral aircraft with 100 seats in the air by 2030. Svenskt Flyg has developed a roadmap for how Swedish flights will become fossil-free. The flight plan shows how domestic aviation can be completely fossil-free by 2030 and how flights starting from Swedish airports can be fossil-free by 2045. These important steps that are being taken must not stop, but can hopefully continue and be further strengthened in spite of the situation we are in. Let me be clear that aviation is needed and that Sweden, which is an elongated country, is dependent on aviation. That is why it is important for us elected representatives and the aviation industry to hook our own arms and make the best of the situation we find ourselves in. Maybe we have a chance to reset faster than we thought. For this we need to help each other. Mr. Old President! We know that the flight has been hit hard. That is why a lot of decisions have been taken to help the aviation industry. Everything from short-term lay-offs to credit has been developed. This is important in this situation, but there is also one more important thing: When the pandemic ends, we will restart Sweden and the economy. It is important that we do this in such a way that we get many people at work and that we restart Sweden as green as possible. For example, Swedavia will prepare all its airports for electric flights, and we know that regional airports are already doing this. Sweden should be ready for the future to come. In January 2020, the Government gave a commission to Trafikanalys regarding a general analysis of appropriate measures to promote development and a transition to a greater use of fully or partly electric aircraft. The assignment to Trafikanalys is part of the agreement between the January parties. The mission includes developing knowledge on the capacity of electric aircraft and on the appropriate measures to promote development and transition to greater use of electric aeroplanes. The report will be presented on 7 October this year. Mr. Old President! Airplanes are good, but they need airports. The Pandemin has clearly shown that, as an elongated country, we need access to airports as an important part of the social infrastructure. Therefore, the traffic was quickly procured to meet the needs of Sweden. We know that even if we procure traffic, it is not free to operate an airport. Therefore, support for municipalities and regions has not been earmarked but can be used to support not only health care and heroes there, but also public transport and airports and the heroes who continue to work so that we can have a functioning society. We also know that when Trafikverket procured the traffic, several operators announced that they would resume the traffic on certain routes. It is a positive thing to do that, because we want a functioning market. Mr. Old President! The report also contains a section on drones and what the future means to us; it is about innovation and other things. You could now use drones to inspect the railroad or check if there are fires anywhere. Last year I told you that it is important that we have common rules. EU common rules will enter into force on 1 July 2020. It is above all a matter of security. The new rules are close to the Swedish rules, but there will be new requirements for registration of almost all operators and drones and for training of pilots. Drones also receive a new classification into categories based on the level of risk. We welcome this. Mr. Old President! Finally, I would like to support the proposal of the Committee on Transport and Tourism in its report TU12 and reject all reservations.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-118	Mr. Old President! We have just heard a speech in which regional airports are celebrated, as well as the ability of aviation to connect Sweden. I think it feels really positive! We are currently in a situation where airports around Sweden are bleeding. I myself come from Västerås. We are faced with a decision, and Denis Begic's party friends in the Social Democrats want to close the airport. I wonder how the Social Democrats view regional airports in the current situation, both from the point of view of the report and from the proposal that we Moderates have put forward for extra money directly to regional airports.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-121	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Åsa, for the question! As I mentioned, I think regional airports are incredibly important. I myself come from Örebro, not far from Västerås, and there we also have an airport there. And I think it is incredibly important that we look at what the strategy should look like throughout Sweden when it comes to regional airports. How important they are also showed the pandemic, especially when we started purchasing air traffic up to Norrland, where the need for medical supplies and other things to come to those parts of Sweden was demonstrated quickly and efficiently. It is clear that we need to think about what the entire Swedish stock of airports needs to look like. For example, an investigation is under way into emergency airports, which will be reported on 15 June. It will also cover joint regional airports. I think we will have to wait a little until the pandemic has calmed down, so we can see everything that has happened in the aviation market in Sweden with regard to regional airports. Then maybe we can sit down and discuss what this is going to look like, because we need to be prepared if the pandemic comes again.
i-AQL6fxEsKtensUs7QQt4pr	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your answer, Denis Begic! We note that Sweden's regional airports are bleeding here and now. We don't know when this pandemic will be over. We don't have time to wait. We have put forward a concrete proposal for more targeted money for regional airports here and now. The risk is that more airports will have time to close down around Sweden during the pandemic, and then it will be very much more expensive to restart these airports. It is not taking responsibility for taxpayers' money. Let me put another question to Mr Denis and the Social Democrats. But let's first look out a little bit, think a little bigger and look at Arlanda and Arlanda Council's work, which is still not finished. How does the Government representative Denis Begic view the development and future of Arlanda and Arlanda?
i-62AQaQ95NLdUUo1Cdk3vRh	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Åsa, for the question! It is always easier to be in opposition and spend a lot of money on what you at the moment think is important. The state and the City of Stockholm have an agreement that extends to 2038 when it comes to Bromma and Arlanda, for example. And I think it is incredibly important that Arlanda is a hub in both the Swedish aviation industry and the aviation industry. It would be incredibly unfortunate if we did not have an airport this close to Stockholm, especially an international airport. I would like to see many, many more aircraft, I would like to see the third runway at Arlanda, etc. For all of this, a discussion between the state and the City of Stockholm needs, of course, to come to the fore. We still have time to discuss these issues. Above all, it is about what the City of Stockholm wants to happen and to be done. What I'm worried about are fast routes between Jönköping and Copenhagen, for example, and which will be Jönköping residents', Halmstad residents', Malmö residents' and Helsingborg residents' airport. Yes, it will be Kastrup instead of Arlanda. What will it mean when, today, in the situation we are with the pandemic, we cannot go over to Denmark? These are questions that I will really look at very closely when I know how everything has gone in the name of the pandemic. How will we be prepared for the next round of the pandemic?
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-133	Mr. Old President! Flight issues continue to be very topical. They have been a good time, and now they have gone from current to exciting and dramatic in a way that none of us had planned, of course. Developments in recent years have been positive in that there has been a dynamic reduction in flying, which of course is needed from a climate perspective. The development of the past few months is something completely different and something that I do not think anyone in here wants. Of course, the flight must be reduced, and quite a lot, but of course not in this way. Let me also make it clear that flights should be reduced from the previous levels. The reason for that is rather simple mathematics. Swedes fly a lot. We fly about five times the global average. It is flying at a level that is in no way compatible with the Paris Agreement. And that is incompatible precisely because there are no technical achievements in the near future in order to drastically reduce emissions from aviation. That is precisely why this level of flying is not sustainable in any way. Biofuel is highlighted as a solution. Then I'll be very clear that it's only a partial solution. It is not a main solution, it is a rather small part, and it is for two reasons in particular. The first is that biofuels also have high altitude effects. At a high altitude, biofuels also contribute to emissions that have a significant impact on the climate. The second is that biofuels are, of course, also scarce. There's some people who've been doing a little math on this. They have looked at the levels of Swedish flying and scaled them up on a global level and seen what would happen if you simply replaced all fuel with biofuels based on needs. It then lands on the fact that the entire earth's surface would have to be cultivated in order to be able to reach the volumes of biofuels needed. So it is really only a small part of the solution. That is why the issue of reduced flying is a matter of simple mathematics. It just doesn't make sense if we fly as much as we do in Sweden. Let me respond to some other myths and arguments about aviation that have been expressed here today, among other things. A very popular argument is that it is not aviation itself but fuel that is the problem. It is simply an error of argument, and for the reasons I have mentioned before. Today, aviation is synonymous with emissions. It is not possible to distinguish flights from its climate impact. It is a physical and technical reality that reflects where we are with the aviation market today. As I said, there are no technical achievements in the near future that can drastically reduce aviation emissions. Therefore, it cannot be said that the flight itself is not a problem, because it is. It is synonymous with a major climate impact. Far into the future, of course, we will have technology that can contribute in part to reducing emissions from flights per passenger mile, but it is not here and now. The second argument that has been raised, which is related to the first, is the electric flight. I really am a strong supporter of technology development. That is why I believe in taxes and instruments for technological leaps and general technological development. The other day the company Magnix tested an electric aircraft for the first time – very exciting. As I said, I am in favour of this, but I am not naive. To rely on electric flights as the solution to the climate impact of aviation in the short and long term is to be naive, because electric flights will not be able to take the number of passengers that current flights take and are far from the capacity of the railways. Let me take the concrete example of the test flight. It is not a commercial route that has opened without a test flight of 9 people. Compare it to an X2000 train that takes 330 people. There's a huge difference in capacity. We should be aware that these small electric flights will not be able to operate long distances. This means automatically that the railway is almost always preferable because it is more powerful and much better on short distances. The few exceptions that of course exist are, for example, if you have the type of nature that Norway has with fjords and the like. Then it is of course an advantage to be able to cross these fjords by electric flights because it is a bit too expensive to build a railway. But for most routes in Sweden, the railways are much better, especially and clearly Stockhol m– Gothenburg. The last reason why electric air traffic will find it difficult to compete with the railways is, of course, energy efficiency. It is again a question of simple physical laws. What is energy required to move such a heavy body up into the air compared to moving a long line of wagons where the locomotive takes the air resistance, the wagons follow and the train uses gravity to slide iron towards iron. The railway is simply superior in virtually every way. The third argument I will respond to concerns the question of a new runway at Arlanda. It is particularly interesting that the Moderates raise this issue, because the Moderates tend to strive for cost-effectiveness in their policies and are rarely in favour of subsidies here and there. Flying decreased quite drastically even before Corona, and now it has decreased even more. I find it difficult to see that flying comes back to the same levels as before, and it is also not desirable from a climate perspective. Therefore, the question must be asked: How can an additional runway at Arlanda be justified in any way – also from a capacity perspective? The capacity ceiling at Arlanda is not reached. Heathrow, one of the world's largest airports, has two runways. Arlanda has three. It would be the destruction of capital by monumental measures to throw away tens of billions of dollars on another runway at Arlanda. It is especially remarkable that this comes from the Moderates, given their large aversion to the high-speed lanes. I remember when the Alliance, led by Fredrik Reinfeldt, launched the construction of Sweden. It was a drive for the future with optimism and faith that in the future we could transport ourselves sustainably. Municipalities and regions supported this and were willing to invest in housing and local business, if the state pointed with all its hand and promised to build these paths. But now they are faltering and are instead willing to throw away tens of billions of dollars on yet another roller coaster that in no way can be justified, either from a capacity perspective or from a climate perspective. These are policies that do not make sense. In common with the three arguments and myths that I have addressed, those who present them have a so-called renunciation. They do not deny the climate threat, but they deny what it takes to deal with the climate threat. It is important that it becomes clear that not everyone agrees that the climate threat should be addressed. Some deny the response society should give to meet the challenge. I have already oversold my speaking time, but let me quickly review what we need to do in the future. We need to scale up work on night rail traffic. Now we have decided to have a night train going down on the continent. There's some crux to solve, but I'd like us to develop this even more. A night train to Oslo would be excellent, and there are more stretches to look at. I have already mentioned the high-speed lanes. It is clear that Stockholm – Gothenburg should not be the most common route in Sweden; it is in every possible way completely unreasonable. It is much better that we transport on rails. We need to get biofuel production going. We Greens have pushed for investment aid for new biofuel plants that will, among other things, produce biojets. Finally, it would be reasonable to look at a congestion tax at the major airports. People have realized that Arlanda has capacity problems, but that is not the case. Even less capacity problems would have existed if landing charges had been differentiated on the basis of congestion. Then it had been seen that there is absolutely no capacity challenge at Arlanda. If we proceed with these measures, we can reduce flying and emissions. I support the committee's proposal.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-154	Mr. Old President! We have heard a speech that was anything but a fire speech for aviation. It becomes very clear that the Green Party intends to phase out aircraft instead of developing aircraft. You don't see any problem with the airline industry going bad and that it affects business and jobs around Sweden. It may not be entirely strange when it comes from a party that does not like growth either. Nevertheless, I shall ask the Green Party's Lorentz Tovatt a little the same question that I put to the Social Democrats, because the Green Party is actually in the same government as the Social Democrats. The Environmental Party has also been a member of the Arlanda Council, whose work is finished. However, there has been no final report. You have talked a lot about runways at Arlanda, but the Arlanda Council's work involved much more than that, for example the Bromma question and the question of changing Arlanda to a more environmentally friendly airport with easier ways to travel collectively to and from Arlanda. How does the Environmental Party view the work of the Arlanda Council and the development of the Arlanda area?
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-158	Mr. Old President! I thank Åsa Coenraads for the question. We do not want to phase out flights, but aviation must be reduced to sustainable levels. That's two completely different things. People will continue to fly in the future but not in a way that is dangerous to the planet and future generations. This is the starting point for green policy in general. I think the Moderates have a different attitude. They don't seem to care as much about future generations. Åsa Coenraads is welcome to correct me if I am wrong in my assumption. Arlandarådet generally worked with Arlanda's development. The Council submitted a report to the government, but it has not yet been published. What I understand is that, among other things, the Council is proposing an additional runway at Arlanda Airport, which cannot be justified for either capacity or climate reasons. I think the report has therefore been stopped. Then it is probably true that there are a lot of other exciting things in the roadmap, and we are working on these parts. These include the incorporation of biofuels. There, thanks to the Green Party's contribution, the government has worked to produce the reduction obligation, which will force biofuels into the tank. There are a lot of things that we can do to make aviation more sustainable without making the foolhardy investments that are about increasing the capacity of an airport that already has overcapacity.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-163	Mr. Old President! We did not get answers about what is happening to Arlanda and the future of Arlanda, but it was not entirely unexpected. It is interesting that Lorentz Tovatt mentions the reduction obligation and the incorporation of biofuels and the like, which are very important things. This is important for aviation and for the future. We have seen that a lot of things are being tested, such as bio-interference, self-produced biofuels and electric aircraft. However, this is not only done in Stockholm, at Landvetter and in Skavsta, but is often done at the small regional airports. Now we are seeing a situation in which regional airports around the country are dying of soot death. Ängelholm has closed, and Västerås is closing, thanks to Lorentz Tovatt's party together with the Social Democrats. How will we continue to develop the good, environmentally friendly parts of aviation if we are not able to test drive them? We have put forward a proposal with extra money for regional airports. It is money that could be used to develop, among other things, electric aviation and the refuelling of biofuels produced locally. What is the position of the Green Party on the initiative we have proposed?
i-NHp16iSdyW9qAhJmQvxCG4	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Åsa Coenraads, for the line shift! I was going to answer the question with a counter-question: How much can the Moderates think of tax subsidies for flights in Sweden? The flight is already exempt from VAT. You pay no tax on your fuel, you have a low flight tax, which the Moderates also want to scrap, and you are exempt in a lot of different ways beyond that. And then, in addition to all these liberations, you have huge public subsidies. The last thing I heard about Moderates' economic policy was that there was at least some idea not to unilaterally subsidise and pump money into an industry that cannot stand on its own feet. Västerås Airport closes because for many, many years they have gone hundreds of millions of slopes each year. To then imagine that the public will pump taxpayers' money in just so that some rich people can take the flight from Västerås to the Spanish solar coast – what is this policy? What is this economic madness where money is pumped into an activity that cannot stand on its own and is also directly climate-damaging? I have never understood this priority from a right-wing representative. The answer to the question is that the Moderates are guilty of how much they really want to pump into this industry.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-170	Mr. Old President! I listened carefully during Mr Lorentz's speech. I can tell you that we may not be in diametrically different corners when it comes to aviation, but that we are quite far apart. What we have in common is that we see that there is potential for biofuels and also for electric flights, although we look at the potential of electric flights differently. What fascinates me is that the Green Party and Lorentz Tovatt focus a lot on the trains when it comes to saving the climate, but unfortunately it is not possible to take the train to the USA or Africa. In terms of emissions in Sweden, 94%, in the way it is calculated now, comes from road transport. That's why the Liberals focus on them, to reduce climate emissions. The impact of aviation is not very great in relation to the 94 percent, even in terms of global impact. Our position is to be able to invest in biofuels and develop electric aviation. In order to retain the benefits of flying, we want to work with carbon capture. I would therefore like to ask: how do Lorentz Tovatt and the Green Party feel about not focusing on a dramatic reduction in aviation but instead doing as much as possible with environmental measures and compensating for carbon capture in order to have a climate-neutral flight?
i-J9wMzf2qSCwpYyPLxBLhm7	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Helena Gellerman, for the questions! First, I want to correct Helena Gellerman a little. The fact that 94% comes from road transport is not true if you include international flying and add high altitude effects. Then the share of flying is considerably higher. You should have with you that flying is a very large part of the common Swedish emissions. Helena Gellerman tells us that it is not possible to take the train to the United States or Africa. Then the follow-up question is: Can you take the electric flight to the United States? No. Can you take biofuels to Africa without high altitude effects? No. That's where we stand. I very much appreciate that Helena Gellerman listened carefully to my speech, but I went through the technical conditions clearly. I made it clear that the technology available today does not work from a climate perspective. It does not take us all the way to being in accordance with the Paris Agreement. And the last time I checked, the Liberals signed that agreement. This brings us back to what I was talking about: response denial. Helena Gellerman, of course, means well, wants the climate well and wants to achieve a reduction in climate-hazardous emissions, but nevertheless it boils down to denying the response that we, as a society, must provide to tackle emissions. Now we didn't have much time to talk about capture. I believe that CCS technology in various ways will be important in the future. However, I do not believe that this is the most important thing for aviation, but it is better to reduce flying.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-177	Mr. Old President! I thank Mr Lorentz for the answer to my question. My view is that if anyone denies the benefits of aviation, it is the Green Party. I don't think I got an answer to my question. When we in the Liberals look at the aircraft, we look at it in general and at what we can do in reality. We believe in the flight and that it should remain large. What can you do? Well, at a short distance, it is now, of course, at the beginning of the flight that can cover a large part of the flight requirement. That's why we in the Liberals work with biofuels. We believe that the Swedish people are prepared to pay extra to pay for biofuels in order to be able to go on holiday to different parts. The same applies to companies. These are the two measures that we see. Nor do we believe that using biofuels or high-level emissions will remove all emissions from aviation – of course not – but that is why we are saying that it should be possible to compensate for emissions. In terms of aviation as a whole, it should be able to become climate neutral, and the same applies to shipping. You go as far as you can with the technology, and then you have to work with carbon capture. My question remains: does the Green Party believe that it should not be able to take advantage of aviation but simply say that it should be cut back on it, rather than premium CO2 capture?
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-182	Mr. Old President! Thank you for Helena Gellerman's line. There's a lot I'd like to say. Let's see if I have time for everything. First of all, I do not deny the benefits of flying. They're quite obvious. Air transport has a great advantage over long distances compared to other modes of transport. You can of course take the train long distances as well. There are those who take the train to Africa, for example, which Helena Gellerman could not imagine before. But there are obvious benefits. What I do, and which Helena Gellerman unfortunately does not seem to do, is to have the climate as a starting point. I'll put the planetary boundaries first. I put them before people's right to fly. I think it should be a reasonable starting point for all politicians that we have a common planet to take care of. We have future generations that we must protect. We have our children who we must protect. I cannot understand why this is not the reference to the policy that is being pursued. And I cannot understand those who would rather give the aviation industry priority over our common future. I'm going to say something about the electric flight a little bit more quickly. Domestic fossil flights that could be replaced are very small in comparison with the total emissions of aviation. Therefore, the electric flight is a partial solution but a rather small sub-solution. Long-distance electric flights are more or less excluded. Lifting and flying an 80 ton heavy aircraft across the Atlantic would require a battery more than twice as heavy. To lift 80 tons, you need up to 180 tons of battery. It goes without saying that it is unreasonable. As far as CO2 capture is concerned, it is a competition for that. We have lots of industries that want to capture carbon dioxide and that will have to capture carbon dioxide if we are to become climate neutral in the long term. If I'm going to be a little constructive in the end, I think electrofuels will be the most important part of aviation in the long term.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-188	Mr. Old President! Today we are debating the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs 16 on new long-term objectives for the Eastern Partnership. I would like to take this opportunity to support the proposal in the committee's opinion. Mr. Old President! The Eastern Partnership celebrated ten years in 2019. The countries included – Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine and Belarus – have undergone different degrees of change over the past ten years. In most cases, the changes have been positive. It is about increased prosperity, more respect for human rights and the rule of law, etc. In some cases there have been setbacks, with the result that the EU has been allowed to act with sanctions or reduced financial support, among other things. The Eastern Partnership has clearly increased the level of ambition in the EU's relations with partner countries. The longest development has been made in Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine, which have concluded association agreements with the EU. The citizens of these three countries also have visa-free status in the Schengen area following a series of important reforms in this area. Cooperation has also developed in various ways with Armenia, Azerbaijan and Belarus. The main focus of the partnership is on each partner country's bilateral relationship with the EU. In addition, multilateral cooperation has been established with the aim of supporting bilateral relations and creating the conditions for cooperation between countries. Multilateral cooperation takes place through biennial summits, annual foreign ministers' meetings, meetings, seminars and workshops at expert level. Cooperation is also taking place between the European Parliament and the parliaments of five of the countries through Euronest, between regional and local authorities and through civil society. Mr. Old President! The proposed new long-term objectives are resilience, sustainable and integrated economies, accountable institutions, the rule of law and security, environmental and climate resilience, a resilient digital transition and resilient, fair and inclusive societies. It is welcome that a new proposal for long-term objectives has been drawn up. Several of the Eastern Partnership countries have taken major steps, not least in the development of democratic reforms and prosperity. But these are fragile steps. It takes time to build trust among the population and not least reasonable expectations, where the deficit of democracy and transparency has been clear and unfortunately negatively impacted on people's daily lives and human rights. Corruption, lack of good distribution policies, lack of fair taxes that lead to welfare, whimsical justice systems, and more, do not create trust or trust. That is why the EU's cooperation with each country is so important and guiding. It is also important in the current covid-19 pandemic that the EU's involvement in the Eastern Partnership is both intact and taking new steps forward. At this time when the EU is pooling economic effort to get the social wheels going within the EU, we must not forget our partner countries and not reduce support, dialogue and cooperation. Prime Minister Löfven attended the Eastern Partnership Summit some time ago, and the aim of the meeting was to strengthen relations between the EU and the partner countries in connection with, among other things, covid-19. Mr. Old President! There are a number of issues that still need to be highlighted. The conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh is difficult and multifaceted. In this respect, the EU must take further steps in the dialogue with Armenia and Azerbaijan and the other participants in the peace talks in order to find a reasonable solution and sustainable peace. It is also particularly important that the EU continues to have an open but firm dialogue with Belarus. Support for human rights needs to remain strong and support for civil society actors needs to be further developed. It is also urgent that the political opposition continue to be supported in contributing to democratic development in Belarus. Nothing here can be left to chance. It is sad and a poor failure that Belarus is still under the sole control of the opposition without reasonable opportunity to act as opposition parties do in functioning and transparent democracies. Mr. Old President! The fight against corruption is very urgent. There are few things that, like corruption, can overturn democracies. It is about citizens' trust in the state, local decision-makers and more. In practice, when trust is broken, it is impossible to get operational financing models in place for welfare development. People who do not trust the system simply do not pay tax, and it is noticeable in country after country. Tax collection is therefore a matter of trust that must be resolved by every parliament and government when they make promises in elections. The fight against corruption and nepotism is thus fundamental in any democracy – fragile as working. It is therefore sad that Azerbaijan has fallen downwards in the Transparency International corruption index and is in the lower range. Here the EU must be particularly observant and firm in the bilateral dialogue with Azerbaijan – more for more, less for less. Mr. Old President! Finally, the Eastern Partnership works well despite some shortcomings and setbacks. It is basically a success that the EU has managed to bring together Eastern neighbours to conclude various forms of agreement with the EU. Participating countries have gradually begun to promote stable institutions and good governance, including resilience to external change. They have started to develop market opportunities through economic integration and trade agreements. They have started to ensure energy security and better interconnections for energy and transport. And they have begun to increase mobility and people-to-people contacts through negotiations in the framework of the visa dialogue. However, the Eastern Partnership takes into account not only governments but also the views of civil society, the perspectives of local and regional authorities, the views of business leaders and the views and views of parliamentary assemblies. The process is very much alive. The new long-term objectives, presented by the European Commission and the High Representative, are a positive continuation of the more than ten years of cooperation. Finally, Mr President-in-Office, I would like to point out that last autumn, in collaboration with the Government, Parliament organised a seminar in the Swedish Parliament to highlight the tenth anniversary of the Eastern Partnership.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-202	Mr. Old President! The case we are now debating, UU16 The Eastern Partnership after 2020, I believe is an extremely important matter. It is about cooperation between the EU and our immediate neighbours – some countries are in Europe, and some are just on the border with Europe. The Eastern Partnership, Mr. President of the Age, was initiated in 2009, when Sweden was the President of the EU, Sweden and Poland. The Eastern Partnership was then and is still of great strategic importance for the EU and was a priority on the EU's agenda, which I find very gratifying. If we are to have positive developments not only in Sweden but also in the EU and in our neighbourhood, Mr President of the Age, then we must cooperate with the outside world. We must have workable cooperation, and that is what the Eastern Partnership is partly aimed at. Of course, the partnership also aims, as the previous speaker said, to create more growth, better environment and more digitalisation. Above all, however, it aims to create a society that is better for its citizens – a society that respects human rights and a society of democracy and the rights that we here in the West take for granted. The partnership has been developed in accordance with the individual interests, ambitions and progress of the parties. It has made it possible, and will continue to build on, differentiation and a flexible and inclusive partnership to address common global challenges. In developing the partnership, not only governments and EU institutions have been involved, but civil society, academics, businesses and financial institutions have also been included – all in order to achieve a broad and strong roots in society. The island partnership is common between the countries involved and the EU. It aims to strengthen democratic institutions, the principles of the rule of law, the environment and the climate. It aims to develop the economy and trade, support the digital transformation and promote a fair and inclusive society. Developments in EU countries are of great importance. As I mentioned, they are our neighbours, and we can contribute. In the Eastern Partnership there are agreements which also aim to increase trade, which in turn strengthens the economy. It creates more jobs, Mr President-in-Office, and enables more people to gain influence over their lives. I would also like to highlight the call for principles of the rule of law, good governance, transparency, accountability among society's institutions – which in turn is a basis for democracy, Mr. President-in-Office – and for corruption to be curbed. In many of the eastern countries, there are problems of corruption, and it is not the case that the EU should solve those problems. Instead, the countries themselves must do so. However, through its cooperation, the EU can have a positive impact on development. You can contribute with tools and motivation for a change. Ultimately, it is a question of motivation to create a better life for citizens. I also mentioned the environment. The Eastern Partnership includes measures to comply with the Paris Agreement, to reduce CO2 emissions and to develop climate neutrality. This is important for our common future and very much an issue of great importance for the Eastern countries in the partnership. I mentioned the purpose of strengthening democracy. I myself have travelled a great deal through my missions within the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. I have participated in election observation, Mr President-in-Office, and I have seen both how the work on building democracies is going on and the problems these societies are facing. I believe that the European Union here can reach out one hand to make sure that it influences development – as we have done. I also mentioned that the Eastern Partnership was created in 2009, and that was not a coincidence. The countries suffered then, and are still suffering, from being states of the former Soviet Union – which was not a democracy and which did not have a governance that had a positive impact on citizens' rights. This is where our cooperation from the democratic countries comes in. Mr Niemi mentioned covid-19, which shows the need for cooperation. And yes, in times of international crisis, as during this pandemic, international cooperation is needed more than ever. Issues that need to be built up – and it turns out very concrete in this context – are about health care structures and opportunities for preventive work. But it is also about opportunities to support business and work, so that the countries and ultimately the population are not hit even more negatively by covid. In this context, I should also like to mention Ukraine, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ukraine suffers from Russian aggression, but cooperation with the Eastern Partnership also gives Ukraine access to support to develop its democracy and to work against corruption and internal strife, for the security and security of its citizens. I think this is important, because otherwise Ukraine would stand alone with an aggressive neighbour who does not shun any means. We must work with the world around us, Mr President-in-Office, and we can do so through the Eastern Partnership. I would also like to mention that on 8 March the High Representative of the European Commission for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy presented his proposal for the long-term policy objectives of the Eastern Partnership after 2020. I would like to quote Josep Borrell here. The strength of our neighbours is also the strength of the European Union. The Eastern Partnership remains a key element of EU foreign policy. Our proposals will further strengthen our six partner countries, reflecting the priorities and challenges we share, while maintaining the emphasis on delivering concrete and positive results for all citizens. .....................................................
i-R5FiM8KXfkCV6t9YX7TPKT	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Per Bolund, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist, Minister Ardalan Shekarabi and Minister Matilda Ernkrans. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government Per Bolund answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility. Military cooperation with Finland and a Swedish NATO option
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-216	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. The Parliament will soon decide on a new law on enhanced military cooperation between Sweden and Finland. We welcome this from the Moderates. But in order for a Swedish-Finnish defence cooperation to be strong, credible and realistic, it must be linked with our other defence collaborations – within the Nordic region and with, among other things, the USA. There will also be a need for deeper cooperation in security policy between Sweden and Finland. Sweden and Finland differ here. Finland has a NATO option in its security policy line and has stressed that this has become increasingly important as the security policy situation deteriorates, while the Swedish government is only maintaining military alliance freedom. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Defence whether the government is willing to review the possibility of introducing a NATO option into the Swedish security policy line in order to achieve greater coherence with Finland.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-220	Madam President, I would like Sweden and Finland have strong, credible and realistic defence cooperation. We also have strong, credible and realistic cooperation with our neighbours. In the years in which we have been in government power, we have also strengthened the transatlantic link. We have done so through our developed agreement of 54 points with the United Kingdom, our bilateral agreement with the United States – Statement of Intent – and our trilateral agreement between Sweden, Finland and the United States. We have not had such agreements before. The exercise we are conducting together between these countries today is at a much higher and more advanced level than before. The government does not intend to introduce any change in the form of a so-called NATO option. Sweden and Finland are two military non-aligned countries that cooperate from that position. I do not feel that we have any problems with it from either the Finnish or the Swedish side.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-222	Madam President, I would like We would like to stress the importance of ensuring that defence policy and security policy are interrelated when we enter into the enhanced cooperation with Finland. This applies not least to our relationship with NATO. Finland's NATO option is a strong signal to Moscow – increasing Russia's pressure on Finland reserves the right to apply for membership of NATO. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Defence why the Swedish Government makes a different interpretation to the Finnish one regarding a NATO option. I would also like to ask the Minister for Defence why Sweden's freedom of security policy is being restricted by not having a NATO option.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-224	Madam President, I would like One can of course engage in some kind of theoretical exercise about the differences between Sweden and Finland. We have deep and good relationships. We stand on an equal basis. Our common signal to Moscow is clear. At the same time, the policy we have rests on the basis of international law, in which the sovereignty of each nation is to be safeguarded. During these years, we have done a great deal to deepen cooperation between Sweden and Finland and with other countries. It is a clear signal of security policy to our close world, and we are perceived as someone who gives and contributes positively to security.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-225	Madam President, I would like In the special debate on the mortality in covid-19 among older people, I likened the government's management of the pandemic to an eating testup, which is perhaps known now. Instead of using life - sustaining medical equipment such as oxygen, the death of the elderly has often been speeded up with morphine. Wrong priorities and constant reductions in care for the elderly have meant premature death for thousands of people.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-227	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to take a very sharp look at that illustration. The government of course thinks that every single death that occurs in Sweden or in another country is a huge tragic event that affects the loved ones extremely seriously and of course also harms both family and country. The government has done everything in our power to suppress the spread of the disease and ensure that we do not get an unmanageable infection that our care would not be able to deal with. We have also managed to reduce the spread of infection so much that we have always had the capacity to take care of it. On the other hand, we note that there have been shortcomings in retirement homes, not in all but in some, in terms of medical procedures, staffing and skills to repress the infection. We must learn lessons there. We must ensure that we can constantly pass on information and learn from mistakes. We must do everything in our power to protect every individual human life.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-230	Madam President, I would like What Prime Minister Bolund is talking about successfully, I am talking about as a failure. I think that one has completely failed in one's strategy. Despite previous denial of the existence of some kind of excess mortality, it has now been shown that the excess mortality rate in Stockholm is 100%. A truth investigation is really needed to see what has gone wrong. Does the government guarantee that older people are never elected again?
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-233	Madam President, I would like Ann-Christine From Utterstedt is now guilty of mixing numbers and times. That number doesn't add up. We don't have that kind of excess mortality at this point. On the contrary, we are now seeing a decrease in the spread of infection and a decrease in the number of people treated in ordinary health care and intensive care. This means that we can now take further steps forward and start testing on a large scale, which the government has now announced that we will ensure that there are resources for. We will also set up a Commission to evaluate the pandemic and the measures taken. It will produce results in the future.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-234	Madam President, I would like Several media have during the past week drawn attention to the Pension Authority's distress call regarding the possibility of implementing the increased age limit and the introduction of the target age in the pension system in accordance with the Pensions Agreement of December 2017. For those of us who are working on this issue, this is not news. The Pensions Authority has made this point since last winter. The issue of longer working lives is the single most important factor in raising the levels of our pensioners and the pension system. It is therefore a key element for the pension agreement to be maintained. I am concerned about the risk of this being delayed.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-237	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Zander for the important question. I just came from a meeting with the Pensions Agency. We will intensify the dialogue in order to give the Authority the right conditions to enforce the parts of the pension agreement for which the Pension Authority is the executive. It will require re-priorities. But let me be clear on one point. In no way do we contrast the pension agreement with the need to increase pensions in 2021. Those who have built up our country and prosperity will have increased pensions next year. It is absolutely essential that the pension supplement be implemented next year because we know that the economic downturn at the moment can lead to a negative indexation of pensions. Swedish pensioners deserve increased pensions and not reduced pensions.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-240	Madam President, I would like I would like to draw the attention of the Government to the fact that I did not set the pension supplement against an increased retirement age. I wonder what guarantees can be given that both can be implemented in the appropriate order. It is extremely important for current pensioners and for the future that we raise the retirement age. I would like to know what proposals the Minister has made to prioritise and make both possible.
i-FyuVKnP8uD43PTgDwbZo8h	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Solveig Zander! We will work with an intensive dialogue with the authorities so that they get the right conditions. It is a matter of priorities, but of course it is also a question of resources. It is absolutely right that the implementation of the pension agreement is a long-term step towards raising pensions in the long term. However, today's pensioners also deserve higher pensions. If we do not act, pensions will be reduced next year. It is therefore important that the pension supplement be implemented so that those who have built up the well-being and prosperity of our country receive increased pensions. They deserve it.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-245	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Social Security Ardalan Shekarabi. During the coronapendemin, thousands of people have had their planned operations but also other treatments in the healthcare sector and various types of rehabilitation under the employer's direction postponed, which of course is reasonable. Many of these people have not been able to work and therefore use sickness benefit to support themselves. But in Sweden we have had a very inflexible health insurance and an inflexible sickness benefit system for several years. This means that after six months you cannot continue to receive your sickness benefit, and you are tested against the whole labour market. You can't make a living if you're not very seriously ill. It creates a very big problem for all those who have had their operation postponed. How will the Minister of Social Security resolve this issue?
i-NiaZM23GHimhm8W8PPKTgE	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Nooshi Dadgostar, for the question! It is true that cancellation of rehabilitation efforts and cancellation of operations may risk people becoming part of sickness benefit with the regulations we have today with the examination of day 180. Against this background, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the Government have conducted an active dialogue. As a result, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has taken a decision on a legal position whereby it is exempt from that examination at the moment. That Decision applies temporarily until October. We have just received a letter from Försäkringskassan proposing how we can change the regulatory framework. It also touches on the proposals made by the inquiry into better health insurance to the government. We give priority to this work. It is important that the Swedish people feel and know that we in the government and parliament are doing what we can to ensure that people get financial security in the event of illness even in these difficult times when there is a great debt of care due to growing care queues and cancellations of rehabilitation efforts in the light of priorities made in healthcare.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-254	Madam President, I would like This is nothing that just happens in a pandemic. This has happened several times before the pandemic. You're in the middle of rehabilitation and you're coming in today 180. Suddenly you lose your sickness benefit because Försäkringskassan starts to test against the whole labour market. Does the Minister of Social Security think that it is a problem in general that we have a sickness benefit system that is so inflexible and that makes people insured instead of going back to work as a nurse, nurse or teacher?
i-VqU2ykeLHxpA8bTXLBYhNE	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Nooshi Dadgostar! The direct answer to that question is yes. I think it's problematic. It is very problematic that we have shortcomings in the regulatory framework with regard to the examination of the right to sickness benefit made at day 180. It prevents people from rehabilitating themselves and coming back to their jobs. It is a problematic regulatory framework. The regulatory framework needs to change. That's why we set up an investigation. Now we have suggestions on our table. We are working on the referrals that have been made to these proposals.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-258	Madam President, I would like It is satisfactory that the sickness benefit in the form of preventive sickness benefit is now on the way. It's about people who are at risk. They have a disease or a state of health that makes them extra vulnerable should they suffer from covid-19. Then it is necessary that we also assist them with a protective system if they cannot give up work or work from home. But we lack two parts of the government's proposal. It is about those who are related to risk groups and pregnant women. In the case of pregnant women in particular, we have recently seen that there is an increasing concern about the effects covid-19 would have on the pregnant person. This applies both to the woman herself and to the child. Those in the healthcare staff who are pregnant have not been given the opportunity to change jobs or use pregnancy allowance even though they work with covids disease. There are therefore two problems that are related to risk groups and pregnant women that the Riksdag has highlighted to the government, and you are not making any proposals.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-263	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Ankarberg Johansson, for the important question, and thank you for the very good cooperation between the parliamentary parties and the government on this issue! We have tabled a proposal for a regulation that has been discussed with the parliamentary parties. The referral period for that proposal expires today. We look forward to receiving all the referrals on the subject of pregnant women and the point concerning relatives. It is of course very important that we have good financial security for people who are to be protected from this infection. The government is closely following the work of these groups of the authorities to take the necessary measures to ensure the financial security of these people.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-266	Madam President, I would like I am also pleased that the government has come up with proposals and that we have been able to meet in talks about it. In the first part, the government has put forward a proposal. That's fair enough. But the other two parts are completely missing. The Parliament took a decision on 16 April. Now the government says: We are following the question, and we do not yet know what to do. It's still quite a long time. People are standing there looking for an answer. We've left our referral. I want an answer. When will there be an improvement?
i-MdJubNGxjF6xwNgVL2c9rs	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Acko Ankarberg Johansson! At the department, they work day and night on this issue. At the same time as we are standing here, the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs are sitting to analyse the referrals that have come in for the question, which also applies to the pregnant and the relatives. It is also important to stress that if pregnant women work in professions where they come directly into contact with the infection, there is of course pregnancy allowance. In addition, they have the possibility to take out parental benefit early. There are already opportunities that can be used by those in that situation.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-272	Madam President, I would like Today, I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the problem of cheating at national colleges and universities. I ask the question: How many chances should a student really get? It's about cheating on exams, plagiarism and submitting information that you haven't produced yourself. We have several examples of horrors where warnings and suspensions have been given, both one, two and three times. It seems that there is no limit to how to behave at the country's universities and colleges. I don't think that's reasonable. It is not fair to all other students who struggle daily to have their studies graded so that they can take a step further in life. There is also another problem that we want to come back to today. It's the college exam and the cheating at the college exam. Now the referral bodies have responded to the Government's proposal for grades at the university test. That's where they support the investigation's proposal to keep grades. The question to the Government is what she thinks on this issue.
i-3qBFugnseBsrqgfepn9PDZ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roger Haddad, for important questions! It is a commitment that we have in common to ensure that cheating within the university is eliminated. You should not be able to cheat your way through the university test and thus take a place for someone else. It's also about having a hard and structured job so that you don't cheat once you're in college with exams and so on. For this reason, the government has set up both one and two investigations, which have made their proposals. They have been out for a referral, and we are now doing a consultation contract. My absolute hope and ambition is that the government will be able to return to Parliament with wise and good proposals for decisions so that we get a better order and can feel more confident that we can get rid of cheating at the university.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-281	Madam President, I would like My first contribution is that we have to come back on suspensions and tighten up the rules for that. It is unreasonable that you can be suspended three times and continue as if nothing has happened. The second, Madam President, is that I am not being told by the government. I would like to know what the Minister for Higher Education thinks about those who cheat through the university test. The investigator says you should keep your points. I think the signal should be crystal clear: if you cheated the point, don't have it. What does the Government think about this?
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-284	Madam President, I would like Let's say this: An indication of how seriously I view this issue is that it was myself who set up the investigation on how to handle points that you have taken if you have cheated your way in via the university exam but then obviously passed parts of the education and got points. That's why the investigation was set up. It's been out for a referral, and now we're doing the referral. Then I will have to come back to this House with wise and good proposals for decisions that can also work out in reality.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-287	Madam President, I would like Last August, the government agreed with the Center Party and the Liberals on an economic addition to the defense of 25 billion by 2025. That's a 40% increase. The worrying developments in the outside world and in our neighbourhood corresponded to and explained the increase. At the same time, the pandemic has brought to light many other areas such as economic security in the event of unemployment, financial support and guarantees to save jobs and businesses and, in particular, health care needs. Civil preparedness must also be rebuilt from low levels.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-290	Madam President, I would like 25 billion is an enormous amount, and this is a deal that applies for the years 2021 – 2025. It will be able to provide substantial reinforcements in both the army, the navy and the aircraft. We will be able to see a further increase in military capabilities – the increase in capabilities that began with the previous defence decision in 2015. It gives this economy room for. Then the pandemic and other phenomena have highlighted the need for a commitment to civil defence. It is a work being prepared within the framework of the Ministry of Justice. The defence committee has also previously presented a report called Resistance. What we are preparing is a total defence bill that will deal with both the military and the civil defence as a whole.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-294	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Defence, for your answer. I have a brief supplementary question. How does the Minister of Defence see that the coronapndemin will affect defence planning in the future, both in the short and long term?
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-296	Madam President, I would like We have been able to see in the wake of the coronapndemin, among other things, quite extensive disinformation and influence operations, especially from different countries that want to divide Europe and create a situation that undermines the democracy we have. This is one aspect of the whole: increasing efforts in relation to resistance to misinformation and this type of operation. Among other things, we have proposed the creation of a psychological defence agency.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-299	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Per Bolund. The Coronapandemia has put a lot of things in society at its head. People's lives, health and economics are at stake, and the world as we know it has been rocked. When country after country opens up, the question is how the wheels can start to spin is crucial to ensure people's livelihoods and social development continues. However, the Corona crisis is not the only crisis we face. The climate crisis has not stopped because a global pandemic has occurred. Drastic measures to reduce emissions are needed as much today as they did last year. Therefore, my question to the Government is: what measures and inputs does the government have to ensure that the recovery of the economy, which now needs to take place, is precisely green and helps to resolve the climate crisis?
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-303	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Janine Alm Ericson, for the question! This has been a difficult time for Sweden and the world, which is why the government, together with our partner parties, has also made great efforts to be able to come up with economic incentives. When we come to have better control of the infection and feel that we can start to bet and look ahead, we also need to get the economic wheels going. Then our conviction is that we do it best by also modernising our society and making investments that at the same time make Sweden more efficient and smarter. There we all have the opportunity to resolve not just one crisis but two crises at the same time. We can make green investments and green investments that will get the economic wheels going after the coronapndemine and that we will also build away our fossil dependence and become the fossil-free welfare country that we have set as our goal. There we have support from, for example, Konjunkturinstitutet, which says that socio-economic investment from the public sector is an effective method of getting the economy back on track.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-307	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would like to emphasise that it is incredibly important that we have put in place rapid measures to save businesses, jobs and lives at this stage. But we now also need to look at investments later. That is a happy answer given by the Government. But should I interpret it as meaning that we will also be working to get a more circular economy with renewable energy and that we keep the economy so that it develops, but within the limits of the planet?
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-309	Madam President, I would like It is incredibly important that we now streamline our economy. There are many market failures which also lead to severe environmental problems. There's now a chance to take a big hold. It is about making investments on the energy side to ensure that our energy comes where it is needed. This is true in the transport sector, where we know that we have a great commitment to reduce emissions quickly. But it's also about getting green jobs started that enable us to equip our country and, for example, make available our fantastic Swedish nature to all those who now long for it. Here we have every opportunity to think in new ways.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-313	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Secretary of Defense. My question is precisely about misinformation. On the Swedish Armed Forces' website we read that the Corona virus has caused a widespread dissemination of false information. To counteract this is, of course, about critical thinking and a safety awareness. It's more important than ever. The Minister of Defence mentioned the long-term work to equip Sweden with disinformation. But something is also needed in the short term. The WHO is talking about an infodemi. There is false information that is spread both from other countries and in Sweden.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-317	Madam President, I would like A Russian - speaking site posted that Swedish soldiers on behalf of Ukraine were training war criminals who had been guilty of the death of 119 children. They posted names and passport numbers. We reacted immediately on behalf of the department. I went into the media and said that this was completely unreasonable and indecent. We reacted here and now, immediately and immediately. That is how you have to do sometimes in relation to this type of activity: mark very strongly in order to thus raise the level of awareness that this is going on. It's part of leadership as I see it. At the same time, we are following up what is happening in these areas through our authorities. For example, MSB follows this in a very good way. We work on this all the time – here, now and right away.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-321	Madam President, I would like What the Minister of Defence mentioned is one of all these misinformation attempts that have been made that we are aware of. But there is much more, and there are different methods for this. What measures does the Minister of Defence intend to ensure that the government takes to ensure that we reach out wider? This applies not only to what we know has been done against the defence; I am also thinking of the Home Guard and other rumours that have spread that Sweden has said that the covid virus is not dangerous.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-323	Madam President, I would like There is no one who can conjure this away or make any kind of decision that will make it disappear with immediate effect. This is something you have to work with all the time, every day, and at different levels try to counteract. It is also about the fact that even those who sit in the Riksdag in their leadership can react to various phenomena and clarify the extremely negative in these kinds of things. I'm trying to do it from my level. We are also trying to activate our authorities. But the best thing is an increased public awareness.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-326	Madam President, I would like Denmark and Norway have decided to open the borders between their respective countries, but they still keep the border with Sweden closed. Greece, Cyprus and most recently the Netherlands have announced that this summer they will open their borders to tourists with the exception of Swedes, who will thus be banned from entering these countries. The reason why Swedes are no longer welcome in many parts of Europe is that many countries estimate that the Swedish government has handled the corona virus in too bad a way. We have not managed to control the spread of infection in the country, and we still have too many deaths on a daily basis. Anders Tegnell was out the other day and was self-critical. He said you should have done some things differently. Madam President, I would like My question is whether the government agrees with this and whether it now regrets that it did not adopt a better approach to managing the coronavirus.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-330	Madam President, I would like It is easy to draw firm conclusions. I would like to avoid doing so because we are still in the midst of a pandemic that is going on. We have reason to do everything we can to stop the spread of the disease, to protect the vulnerable groups at risk and to ensure that we have the capacity to take care of those who are ill. We still have a great deal to do there. We will set up a Commission that will evaluate the whole process that has been around the pandemic and how the government, our authorities and other actors have acted. As regards the international decisions taken, there is a constant dialogue between Sweden and other countries. It is clear that there are some misconceptions, such as the one expressed by Henrik Vinge that the spread of infection would not fall in Sweden. It does. It's sinking fast. We are now also making efforts to get further control of the infection. That is also something that we are very clear about in our relations with other countries. Sweden's position is that we should open Europe to travel as soon as possible.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-333	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. After all, it is a fact that many other countries make the assessment that Sweden has handled this too badly. This is also the reason why Swedes are excluded and are not allowed to travel to other countries in Europe. That is not what I am saying, but the assessment made by these countries. It is also a fact that Sweden has chosen a different strategy for managing the coronavirus than many other countries and that it now seems to be working worse. That is why my question remains: does the government regret that it did not choose a better strategy to deal with the coronavirus?
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-336	Madam President, I would like It is easy to draw generalistic conclusions. At the same time, it is very clear to science and to those who follow these questions that different countries have ended up in different phases. There are also different situations when the infection has entered the country in different ways. That is why all countries have also chosen to have a strategy that is suited to that particular country's situation. That is also what Sweden is doing. We have worked actively in different phases. We are now entering a new phase in which the spread of infection is decreasing and where we can also go back to testing anyone who shows symptoms and also the detection of infection. We will continue to work to do all we can to control the infection.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-339	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Secretary of Defense. Like so many other major meetings and conferences this year, this year's Military Service Congress has also needed to be moved, from April to the end of October/November. The Conscription Congress is the highest decision-making body for the participation of conscripts and the ability to influence their educational situation. I and the Minister have discussed in the past the importance of strong participation in an activity in which young people are called up with duty. The advanced conscription congress has now made a mess for the five elected representatives of the Plikt Council. The members of the Council have plans to start studying and working in the autumn but now need to continue to secure their participation until the next Council of Duty can be elected in the autumn. In order for us not to risk standing without an active duty council in the important work, there would be a need for financial compensation for this mission even until the next congress. I wonder how the Minister sees the possibility of replacing the members of the Plikt Council on a part-time basis until then.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-343	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. I have not been confronted with this before. That is why I intend to check what this is all about and what the conditions are. Then, of course, the authority also has its responsibilities in this context. We will have to come back to this in another forum.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-345	Madam President, I would like I would like the Minister of Defence to come back to this. It is an important issue, which we have talked about on previous occasions, that involvement in duty activities works in the best possible way. I hope that we can come back to this individual discussion but also to be able to review the organisation that is now in place for participation. Even the regulation that exists, I think, would have to change a little.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-346	Madam President, I would like What I am prepared to come back to is to check precisely the conditions surrounding the deferred Congress, the financial compensations and how to look at liability issues, whether it is the authority's responsibility or not. The rest, of course, we can have a broader discussion on, but in general we must ensure that this influence is safeguarded. We have also held continuous discussions with the Swedish Armed Forces to ensure that this works in a good way. I know that this is the view of the armed forces.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-347	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Ernkrans. The pandemic we are currently in the midst of is of course creating a great deal of concern both for health and for jobs and income in the future. Today, we had a visit to the Education Committee by the Public Employment Service, which mentioned, among other things, that it had received 168 000 new entries since 1 March 2020. Fewer people get jobs today too. Those most affected are those who depend on entry-level jobs.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-350	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Gunilla Svantorp! I now have an opportunity to talk about the whole of the Swedish strategy. We have, of course, focused on limiting the spread of infection in order for healthcare to be built up and for us to be able to receive and intensively care for our patients. We've done well with that. But a large part of the strategy is also about cushioning the impact on the national economy. It is a question of us also taking responsibility for people having a job to go to or a job to look for a completed education. In this, there is a lot of investment in enterprises and businesses, municipalities and regions, but also in major training efforts. We are making a big effort on summer courses this summer and a big effort on summer jobs. We also have major training efforts in the autumn so that you can train yourself through the crisis.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-353	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that, Minister. What you're most concerned about is the young. Today we were told that 11.3% of young people are unemployed. Many might have planned to work for a year and then come back to study.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-356	Madam President, I would like This is extremely important. It's hard to face adult life if you get to do it in unemployment. That is why we need to take joint responsibility for the fact that as many people as possible can actually study. We are investing heavily in education. It's high school, komvux, vocational adult, polytechnics and colleges – and not least there are 6,000 new summer courses this summer that I really hope will be able to meet this need in a good way.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-358	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Minister Bolund a question, and it is about Södertörnleden. A month ago, a new port in Norvik was opened to replace the former port located on Loudden inside the city. The state has been involved in the entire preparation of this matter, so I ask the question: Why has the state, or the government, not been involved in the construction of Södertörn Trail? Now all the tonnage and trucks are allowed to drive from Nynäshamn to the Southern Link, turn around there and then drive down on the E4. It's about 100 miles from the harbor. If you build Södertörnsleden you shorten the distance by about 80 km per truck. My question is: Is it environmental reasons that the government does not want to build Södertörn trail, or what is the reason? The government owes us an answer.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-361	Madam President, I would like The government has a long-term infrastructure planning where we set out a 12-year framework for infrastructure. It's been at record levels. We have never spent as much money on infrastructure expansion as we have under this current government. It is also gratifying that we are spending money on a sustainable transport system, i.e. a very large part of the resources for new investment goes to rail investment, which is also suitable for goods. As far as Södertörnsleden is concerned, I am not Minister of Infrastructure and therefore do not have detailed control on each individual project, but as I recall it is part of the twelve-year planning framework and is therefore part of the planning of the Finnish Transport Administration. But when we make decisions on infrastructure, we obviously also have the commitments that the Swedish Parliament has put on us by having a high climate target. As far as traffic is concerned, this means that we will reduce emissions by 70% by 2030. It must, of course, be involved in guiding the investment decisions we take.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-363	Madam President, I would like Many Swedes had planned to travel abroad in spring and summer. It won't be like that. The advice of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs from all non-necessary journeys is currently valid until 15 July. Under the existing regulations, the consumer is always entitled to reimbursement if the journey is cancelled. This is not changed by the fact that the EU is now encouraging travel companies to make vouchers attractive. If consumers want money back, they should get it too. Many turn to the General Complaints Board, whose cases have increased by 140 per cent. They probably get right there, but that doesn't help, because travel companies have no chance to comply with the law. We had a general spread of infection in the country on 16 March, according to the Public Health Agency. Today we write on 4 June. My question to Minister Bolund is therefore: why is the government doing nothing about the situation?
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-366	Madam President, I would like It is a unique situation that Sweden has ended up in because of the Corona crisis. The government has also made unique decisions. We have so far contributed to the order of SEK 250 billion to support our business community. It is widespread in the form of conversion aid for those companies that have lost turnover, but it also takes the form of short-term lay-offs and many other measures. This means that many companies have the opportunity to continue their operations despite the fact that the customer base has decreased very much. With regard to the precise circumstances surrounding travel compensation, we have principles that prevail, such as that the General Complaints Board examines this type of case. They have also received additional resources so that they have greater capacity than before. As a minister, I cannot go in and decide in individual cases whether or not to receive compensation, but the large amounts of support we have given to companies also, of course, provide companies with greater opportunities and capacity to be generous to their customers. Of course, that is something that we are also encouraging.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-369	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. Last week in the municipal worker we were able to read about how the health debt is growing. So far, 44 000 operations have been cancelled. It is also reported that there is a deep concern about growing ill health as a direct effect of the Corona crisis that we are currently going through. This affects how our sickness benefit works. With current regulations, an examination is made after 180 days, and you risk instead of receiving sickness benefit being referred to Arbetsförmedlingen to apply for a job – a common job. At the moment there is a legal exception, but, as we know, it only applies until October. Last week, Försäkringskassan went to the government with a request to make a longer-term exception to guarantee people sickness benefit.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-373	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Mattias Vepsä! We are concerned about the development of the right to sickness benefit after day 180. The focus on rehabilitation has become weaker. The focus on economic security has become weaker with legal application and development. We see that around 25 percent were refused continued sickness benefit after day 180. I'm not sure that the 25% recovered between day 179 and day 180. On the contrary, we need to strengthen rehabilitation and return to regular work. This is reinforced by the health debt that has arisen as a result of the Corona. As Mattias Vepsä says, a special exemption is currently being applied by Försäkringskassan. That derogation applies until October. We work to act and change the regulations so that we offer everyone financial security in the event of illness. The whole social security system aims to provide security and rehabilitation for returning to work. That is what we need to focus on, and that requires regulatory changes.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-378	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by correcting Minister Bolund on a task. He said the number of covid cases is now dropping rapidly. I'm afraid that's not true. On the contrary, there are now reports that we see an increased number of cases in Sweden, not least in my own home region Västra Götaland. It is important to remember that Sweden is bigger than Stockholm. Now to my question. There was a recent press release from the Swedish Council for Higher Education. It was a very positive and gratifying one, namely that the search pressure for health education is record high. It is very pleasing and very positive. We need more applicants for health care training, and we also need quality care training. This government has expanded the number of training places. Unfortunately, we have sometimes seen that this has led to lower quality and that universities and colleges have found it difficult to meet the target.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-382	Madam President, I would like Thank you to Johan Hultberg, who highlights what I also find very gratifying in this crisis, namely that it seems that more people are looking for education and also for health education. We know that there is a demand on the labour market, and healthcare has also been in focus right now. I think there are many people who see what important work they are doing there and who are also prepared to invest in training in this area. This means, among other things, that we want to be able to respond to it, so that more people can learn in those areas. I hope we can do that. But as always, we need to focus on quality. It is the responsibility of each higher education institution to keep its focus on quality, but there is also a national quality assurance system in place that UKÄ monitors and reviews. It is also very important for this government that we maintain good quality in our education.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-385	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad stole my question from Minister Ernkrans. The investigation referred to by the Government regarding sample fraud explicitly suggests that sample fraudsters should be allowed to retain their grades. However, withdrawal of admission shall take place. It is to compare m ed someone who has passed the run-up and got his driving license but then revealed by having cheated on the theory test. Can the cheater keep his driver's license? Will the government allow those who are exposed as cheaters to keep their grades? That is what the investigation is proposing. And how will the withdrawal of admission take place? Can the cheater leave student housing and the university within a week, or what will happen?
i-986eYigYn75YQRWsCcZf3E	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Robert Stenkvist! I say again that I appreciate the commitment to this issue. As I said, I set up the investigation, because I thought it was important to get things right. When you have obviously cheated your way in through the university exam and get caught with it, you have to leave your place of education. But there has been uncertainty as to how any points should be dealt with. These are points that you have still taken and shown that you have managed during your studies. The investigator has looked at it and returned with a proposal. It's been a referral. We are now compiling the referrals. I hope to be able to come back to the House with a sensible balanced proposal that also works in practice. We know that the vast majority of people in higher education are doing well. And, of course, we want more people to continue to behave. It should never pay to cheat.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-393	Madam President, I would like The pandemic we are in has certainly demonstrated the need for a good, sustainable society. For a good and sustainable society, it is not least important that everyone has a place to live. The need for housing is great. The pace of housing construction has also been high. But now it is feared that the construction activity in Sweden risks falling by at least 10 per cent as a result of the Corona crisis. This tracks, among other things, the Forecast Center in a recent market analysis. At the same time, it is important that what is being built is long-term and sustainable. It's supposed to be climate-proof. Wood construction is a long-term sustainable way of building, especially industrial wood construction. It can happen out in the country, where the forest is, and create jobs and development here and now. We also need to look to the future. Construction cranes are a proof of development and belief in the future. The government has adopted an important wooden building strategy. How does the Minister of Housing view an increased investment in wood construction in the wake of the Corona crisis?
i-3ZtLnzvq9NaVfaSFzd2z4A	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Isak From, for an important question! We need a high level of housing; we have a growing population. Unfortunately, far too little has been built for far too long in our country. I am therefore pleased that, since the start of the Red Green Government, we have had a very high level of housing construction historically. For this year too, the government's forecast is that we will receive 41 000 new homes in 2020. This is clearly higher than the average since, for example, the 1990s. However, we are not satisfied. We want to do even more so that everyone can have access to good housing. That is why we have, among other things, a more active housing policy than it has been in place for a long time, with investment aid. We will now also start with climate declarations that clearly show that, for example, wood construction has good environmental properties. We will also continue to develop more proposals for industrial wood construction, so that we can cut costs as well as increase efficiency and reduce the environmental impact of our construction. It's high on my agenda.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-400	Madam President, I would like The issue of good infrastructure and the future of aviation has been discussed a great deal, not only during the Corona crisis but also in the past. Air travel is currently in a catastrophic situation. The regional airports around Sweden are not doing well, but this also applies to the airports owned by Swedavia. The Moderates want it to be directed to regional airports. That issue will be discussed in plenary later. I hope for a decision to direct more money to regional airports. My question concerns the Arlanda Council, and I address it to Per Bolund. The Arlanda Council has not completed its final report. That's a problem in itself. But I wonder how the Minister views Arlanda's development linked to the financial industry and Swedish business in the long term.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-403	Madam President, I would like Air travel is an important part of the transport system, but far from the only one. We need to ensure that Sweden has a transport system that delivers the services that the population needs as a whole. We also have major plans for investment in high-speed rail, for example, which will allow us to have fast internal transport. There are international examples that high-speed trains can replace some of the air transport that is currently being carried out. The Corona crisis has put an end to flying in principle. We need to re-assess how we think the development will be for aviation as a mode of transport. Many assessors believe that we will see a change in behaviour. Even before the Corona crisis, we saw that the measures taken by the government, among other things, have led to a reduction in flying in Sweden. We must also take this into account when deciding on infrastructure in the future. The government needs to analyse the situation and the need for aviation infrastructure. Then we will come to you with a message.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-407	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. This autumn we will hopefully take a new defence decision that will apply for the period 2021 – 2025. An important factor in getting to that decision and for it to work seriously is that it becomes a total defence decision, that is, for both civil and military defence, and that it is established and financed. The problem is that the civil defence process is at least six months behind, compared with military defence. Will the Government ensure that this autumn the Riksdag can take a real total defence decision where central parts such as both military and civil defence are included?
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-411	Madam President, I would like The responsibility for these issues in terms of military defence and those parts of civil defence that support military defence lies with the Ministry of Defence. The Justice Department prepares and is responsible for the second part. The ambition is clearly that those processes should ultimately be coordinated in such a way that we will present a total defence bill covering the whole field.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-414	Madam President, I would like I have a question of the general political nature of this situation for Minister Per Bolund. On May 25 this year, the racist murder of George Floyd, committed by an American police officer, was the start of a number of protests and demonstrations in the United States but also worldwide. The protests have been met several times with assault, not least from the U.S. police. Those who follow the media have also seen Swedish journalists in the United States few weapons aimed at themselves. The United States is one of our closest allies. And it's a democracy. For this reason, we can make tougher demands on the United States than on other countries. I therefore wonder what the government intends to do to ensure that universal human rights are respected in the United States? For example, will the ambassador be called? Will we condemn the racist violence that we now see in America?
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-417	Madam President, I would like I share Joar Forssell's view that it is extremely sad to see the development that is now taking place in the United States. We believe that racism and police abuse must be combated everywhere in the world. We think it is necessary to exert force. Of course, threats and violence against journalists are startling. We see their professional practice as an extremely important basis for a functioning democratic society. We have been clear, not least within the European Union. Sweden also acts within the EU when it comes to our relations with other countries, such as the USA. A clear statement has been made by the European Union, which is critical of the development that we are now seeing. It calls on all parties, not least the US administration, to take great responsibility in this situation and to reduce polarisation and to work towards peaceful development in the US.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-419	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that, with regard to the overall objective of the EU's foreign policy – to increase stability, prosperity and resilience in our neighbourhood – we obviously have no objection in substance. A well-functioning and prosperous neighbourhood could serve our interests and also save us a lot of problems that otherwise in one way or another will go to Sweden. So far, we have no objection. On the other hand, with regard to the implementation and reporting of the Union's work in the Eastern Partnership, we have some points of view. First of all, I would like to mention aid. Aid is a limited resource which is very likely to be even more limited in the future. We believe that it should primarily be focused on those countries that need it most. The countries supported by the Eastern Partnership are Moldova, Ukraine, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia and Belarus. These are countries which certainly have a lower standard of living than the Union average but do not belong to the poorest countries. According to the OECD Development Assistance Committee, all members of this group belong to middle income countries. Nor do they have major humanitarian difficulties, disregarding what is happening as a result of the conflict in Ukraine. Exactly how much the EU has spent in aid to these countries is difficult to see because it goes through both the Union's authorities and the Member States and multilateral channels. But only the support that goes through ENI, The European Neighbourhood Instrument, amounts to about SEK 40 billion, which is a considerable amount of money. There are more and less appropriate initiatives here. For example, the support that is usually called technical assistance, i.e. expert support through Taiex or twinning, is something that we support. We believe that other types of investment, such as infrastructure, should instead be carried out through development banks. We are also sceptical about the Union's direct financing of small and medium-sized enterprises in these countries. We do not think this is appropriate at present. As far as performance management and reporting are concerned, we naturally support the incentive-based approach of more for more and less for less. We have talked about the principle less for less within Swedish aid in general. One might well ask why the government apparently supports the principle of less for less when it comes to EU aid, but at the same time refuses to implement it resolutely within Swedish aid. The issue is somewhat outside this report, but it is worth considering. As far as the success of the Commission's communication is concerned, it is intended, among other things, to have succeeded in changing the way in which it operates. Under the heading, key achievements of the Eastern Partnership, it states that in 2015 EU Member States and partner countries welcomed the review of the European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP) in the context of the EU's global strategy. The countries called for more differentiation, increased ownership, better focus and greater flexibility. The consultation has shown that the Eastern Partnership has largely achieved these objectives. ..................................................... The Commission then explains how it has managed to implement this and gives a concrete example with Ukraine where work on decentralisation has progressed satisfactorily. The Commission also points out that progress has been made on some of the 20 objectives for 2020, but not on the rule of law, the fight against corruption and organised crime. This is very important, and I will therefore talk a little more about it. In view of the fact that these particular areas are absolutely crucial for the other results to have a chance of keeping over time and for countries to manage at some point without external support, I have to say that the discussion about why things have not gone satisfactorily in these areas is largely due to their absence in the communication. I would have liked to have seen an in-depth problematisation of it, but one is missing. As regards the work on the rule of law, corruption and organised crime, the Commission announces that further to the incentive-based approach, there is a need for clearer guidance on specific reform priorities, with objective, precise, detailed and verifiable benchmarks. This sounds great. This is exactly what we're always going on about. It is very important to follow-up objectives in the field of aid. As a taxpayer, however, I am very keen to know why the aid that we have been funding over the last ten years has not had the intended effect in this area. This is a very important issue. If you are to succeed better in the next ten years, you must also examine why you have not succeeded in the last ten years. I think that is a reasonable starting point. For example, if you look at objective measurements of the progress of these countries in terms of corruption and democracy, you can see that Moldova, Ukraine, Armenia and Azerbaijan have lost during the period of the partnership – according to The Economists' Democracy Index. So they've gone backwards. At the same time, according to Transparency International, Georgia, Belarus, Azerbaijan and Ukraine have deteriorated their corruption indices. It is also in the nature of things that reforms in the judiciary, for example, risk not having the intended effect if imposed from outside. Reforms that are being pushed through in return for support risk leading to cosmetic changes that are a little bit to make lenders or contributors happy but are not real and honest. This is a very important question that needs to be considered. A comparison could be made with the reform that the EU is pursuing in dealing with accession negotiations with candidate countries. There is now a new Rules of Procedure. In fact, the chapters dealing with the rule of law will be placed first. This is clearly being done because these issues reveal whether countries are honest with their reform agenda. We therefore think that the same approach should be adopted within the partnership. That is to say, if we do not make measurable and sustainable progress in terms of democracy and the rule of law, the Union will not provide support in other areas. One could say that one adopts a principle which means that one gets less of everything if one performs less in a specific area, namely the rule of law. We think that is a reasonable approach. Nor would I say that the work against organised crime and corruption is easy in any way. That is absolutely not what we are saying. Let me give a clear example of the problems we are facing. It is also an example that I think other parties in this House may not really take the seriousness that it deserves. Azerbaijan is, of course, a less well-functioning state, in order to use a diplomatic expression. In the parliamentary elections held in February, President Alijev's party, called New Azerbaijan, won big. The OSSE describes the election as follows:................................................................................................................................................................................ It is widely known that the regime in Azerbaijan is in close contact with organised crime in the country, and it is probably difficult to draw a precise line where the government begins and the mafia ends. We know that the regime is deeply corrupt and involved in international money laundering and that it has even managed to bribe European politicians and journalists. We also know that the regime does not hesitate to imprison journalists who write about it. At this point, one has to ask: how can one work with a certain government against organised crime and corruption if that government is the very source of organised crime and corruption? And is it appropriate to spend Swedish tax money on support, for example, for small and medium-sized enterprises in such countries? I'm not so sure about that. That is a question that we are asking ourselves and which all parties in this House should be asking themselves. Finally, I would like to refer to the association agreements. The Swedish Democrats have been sceptical about these because they include visa facilitation, which we know has led to a large number of totally unfounded asylum applications from people from, for example, Georgia. We also know that a number of theft leagues from these countries have been able to ravage Sweden, partly as a result of visa facilitation. On the other hand, we are of course behind the DCFTA free trade agreement, which it has developed since its inception in 2014. Perhaps we have some point to make about the fact that this free trade agreement also includes support for small and medium-sized enterprises, but that is something that is happening to a rather limited extent. A positive sign in this context is that, despite the deep crisis that that country is experiencing, trade with Ukraine has steadily increased in recent years. To conclude, I would like to stress to the House that we do not have a dogmatic or ideological view on the issue of the Eastern Partnership. I believe that we are the only party to remain pragmatic in this way. The European approach of the partner countries is not something we oppose, as long as it is cautious and with respect for how it affects ordinary people, the risk of crime and smuggling, and EU spending. The government's position on a membership perspective for Ukraine is something we have discussed here before. That really only means that countries that meet the requirements should be able to join the Union, as long as the Union's capacity to absorb new Member States is taken into account. That's about what it means. This is not something that we are opposed to specifically. On the other hand, we differ in our view of the Copenhagen criteria and how tough it is to be when it comes to meeting them. We know that the Union has made quite serious mistakes in this regard in the past, and we would like to do what we can to ensure that it does not happen again. Nor do we see EU proximity or membership as an end in itself, but as something that must depend on the circumstances of the individual case at all times. We think this is the only reasonable position.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-443	Madam President, I would like The Eastern Partnership is based on an understanding that our security is linked to the security of our neighbours. When we saw what happened in Georgia in 2008 and the war between Russia and Georgia, it became quite clear that more needs to be done to build common security. It was this that was a bit of the basis that we began to work in a structured way with our eastern neighbours. The EU also has a job with our southern neighbours, but it is not quite the same way there, you can say. The Eastern Partnership includes countries that are part of Europe. For us, Europe is an open opportunity. For countries wishing to join and cooperate on a common basis of values, it shall be possible to join the EU. This was, of course, also a matter for the Eastern Partnership, of which Sweden and Poland were mothers, although it was two gentlemen who signed the first texts. Since 2009, the Eastern Partnership has been gradually developed and formalised. The aim has been to maintain strong, differentiated and mutually beneficial cooperation with all six partner countries. However, we saw quite soon that it was differentiated paths that had to be chosen, because the countries saw different futures ahead of them. For us as a small country, it is self-evident to stand up for each country to take its own security and foreign policy path. This has also been a clear reason for the Eastern Partnership. Throughout the past ten years, Russia has been seeking to undermine this in every possible way, including by moving borders by military means. This is something we never accept whether it is Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova or anyone else who is affected by it. This has nevertheless been a successful path. During this period, we have developed association agreements – we were at the forefront of Armenia, which, however, had to cancel under pressure, and we were at the forefront of Ukraine, with which we have an association agreement today. But this is also linked to the conflict that became visible in the events in Majdan. Then the Russian finger was clearly present, and so are the Russian weapons now. So it has been a success. Some countries chose association agreements. Of course, we have a way forward together there. Others did not choose this, but we also have free trade agreements to enable countries to also strengthen their economic development and improve the prosperity of their population through a more diversified trade exchange. This was formalised to 20 targets for 2020. These objectives have been evaluated in the areas also identified by the Eastern Partnership. I think there is reason to recall in these covid times that we in the European Union have been strong in trying to support our eastern neighbours. EUR 883 million for short and medium-term support for social and economic recovery is one example. We now have on our table a Commission communication for the June summit – to take the next step. It is based on a process in which talks have been held within the EU but also with the Eastern partner countries. We were a number who went to Batumi in Georgia last summer to attend a conference on the Eastern Partnership. There is an impatience in many countries, and one considers: What is the next step? 20 points for 2020 were a clear strategic way forward with targets. Citizens have been able to see results with the Association Agreement, the Free Trade Agreement, visa facilitation and visa freedom. And the role of the EU and the joint mission have become visible. Now we are faced with a process of the future, based on the reasoning that has been. Five points have been added for increased resilience, which has been commented on in the past. Visibility is beyond 2020. Here, of course, there are reasons for the EU and Eastern Partnership countries to set clearer deadlines and time frames. Beyond 2020 can be very far away, and if you want to achieve it, it is important that you become clearer. It is about being clearer in terms of time frames that are differentiated for different countries and citizens. What is to be achieved strategically together? What are the choices you have to make? What does it take to reach and do if, for example, you aim for membership? Here the EU needs clarification, especially if it means more for more. What is to be achieved in order to get more? And what else does it mean if you have achieved something? This requires a process forward to clarify the content of the framework, which also makes it operational and leads the way forward. In this context, I think there is reason also to consider whether the European Union, which we want to see as a global player, should be fully suited to the conflicts that exist with our eastern neighbours. The Normandy process is one of those. The EU could naturally play a role, just as it did when the Iran Agreement was discussed, in trying to move forward and complement what is otherwise going on, where it wants to see more of bilateral superpower solutions or individual bilateral agreements. I believe that there is scope in several areas, Madam President, for the EU and our Eastern Partnership countries to develop the proposal now for the June Summit. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-457	Madam President, I would like The Eastern Partnership, which among other things Sweden was the initiator of, turned ten years during last year. During these ten years, much has happened, and both the world and Europe have changed. Unfortunately, we see the work for democracy, human rights and the rule of law being challenged and threatened both globally and in Europe. Against this background, I am convinced that the work of the Eastern Partnership can be an important counterweight and help to strengthen democracy, human rights and the rule of law. Over the years, Sweden has been a committed player in the Eastern Partnership. An example of this is the seminar held here in Parliament in 2019, hosted by the Speaker and the Foreign Affairs Committee, on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of the Eastern Partnership. It was attended at a high level by all six Member States – Azerbaijan, Armenia, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine. Today's opinion is based on the joint EU Communication outlining the new long-term policy objectives of the Eastern Partnership after 2020. I share the committee's positive view of the overall policy framework for strengthening resilience as a pervasive theme. This concerns a number of areas, such as the economy, institutions, environment and climate, digital transformation, justice and an inclusive society. But, Madam President, for there to be stable and long-term development, respect for human rights must be strengthened throughout the Eastern Partnership. Some countries have gone further and have taken important steps in the right direction, while others have not gone as far. I would particularly like to mention Armenia, which I have had the pleasure of visiting on two occasions in 2019. Armenia has replaced large parts of the parliament since the so-called velvet revolution of 2018. Both government and parliament are largely reform-friendly and relatively young people from civil society backgrounds. And in the political discourse, democracy and human rights play a central role. Steps have been taken in the right direction, but of course the situation is very fragile and much remains to be done. In Georgia and Ukraine, too, we have seen in recent years that a series of reforms have been implemented. We also see positive developments there, but there are still major challenges there. In the case of countries such as Belarus, Belarus in particular, and Azerbaijan, too little has happened. In this respect, I think that there is reason to make a sharp criticism of serious shortcomings, particularly in the area of human rights. No matter how far the countries have come, there is a need for exchange and dialogue with all these countries. It is important, however, that reform should pay off. It is therefore right that the most reform-friendly countries receive the greatest support. Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise in particular the importance of strengthening civil society within the Eastern Partnership. It is often in civil society that we find the people who push for democracy and change. It is people who stand up for and defend human rights even when the social climate is tough. Civil society organisations are also, at least to some extent, represented in the countries where the challenges are greatest, and often operate under difficult conditions. The role of civil society needs to be clarified in cooperation. Civil society must also receive strong economic and political support. A group that is particularly vulnerable are LGBTQ people and their organisations. Unfortunately, we are seeing persecution and harassment of LGBT people increasing rather than decreasing in several of the Eastern Partnership countries. Sweden should therefore raise the issue of the vulnerability of LGBTQ people within the partnership. I share the view of the government and the committee that gender issues need to be further addressed in the Eastern Partnership. Women are still too poorly represented in parliaments, governments and other leading positions in society. Unfortunately, domestic violence against women still occurs too often, and women are discriminated against in a number of areas. Increased respect for women's rights, women's political participation and gender equality are central to peace, security, democracy and sustainable development. This must therefore be highlighted in the context of the European Neighbourhood Policy in an even clearer way. Another important issue is the problem of corruption. For real economic development, strong action must be taken against the widespread corruption that is still too common in many of the partner countries. We can see some change in the right direction, but much remains to be done. A related issue is the importance of strengthening the independence of the rule of law. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of intensifying climate and environmental work within the Eastern Partnership. Climate and environmental issues are the greatest challenge of our time, and therefore the work of the partnership must also be linked to the UN's global sustainability goals and the Paris Agreement. We must make strong efforts to improve people's lives without impoverishing our environment. We know that climate change, the over-exploitation of natural resources and air and water pollution often hit unequal societies harder. Therefore, the work for the environment is also linked to the work for democracy. I am convinced that Sweden has a lot to contribute in this area. This could include support for better waste management, conversion to green energy and transport, and sustainable business and more. Sweden has been active in cooperation within the Eastern Partnership, and we should continue to be an active partner in the future. It is particularly important that we continue to raise environmental and climate issues as well as human rights issues at large and gender equality in particular.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-474	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Eastern Partnership, that is, the EU's political framework for deepening relations with six Eastern European countries: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine and Belarus. The policy is designed as a partnership with these countries. The Eastern Partnership is part of the EU's neighbourhood policy. The aim of the agreements is for the countries concerned to step up their political association and economic integration with the EU by implementing reforms and commitments. The partnership was launched in 2009 as a strategic partnership based on common values and rules, mutual interests and commitments, and shared ownership and responsibility. It aims to strengthen and deepen political and economic relations between the EU and partner countries, and aims to help them achieve, inter alia, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Madam President, I would like Last year, the partnership became ten years old. Since then, a lot has happened. The EU has deepened its cooperation with partner countries, which is even more important in a troubled time when countries such as Russia and China are moving forward their positions. Russia's actions in particular have left their mark on the implementation of the policy. At a time of great internal problems and challenges in the wake of the Corona crisis, the EU must not turn its back on these countries in our neighbourhood. The EU has a strategic interest in continuing to pursue issues relating to the rule of law, the protection of human rights, the fight against corruption and discrimination, independent media, the role of civil society and gender equality, etc. Madam President, I would like Closer cooperation and integrated Eastern Partnership enhance security in our neighbourhood and strengthen integration and respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty and reduce their dependence on Russia as a trading partner. The Christian Democrats would like to stress the importance of Sweden strengthening cooperation with the Eastern Partnership countries in order to further the process in line with the goals set for the establishment of the Partnership. Much is at stake in the region. On and off, tensions between countries are increasing due to regional disputes such as the conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia over Nagorno-Karabakh. A free, democratic and peaceful neighbourhood benefits not only the security of our neighbours, but also the Nordic countries and the rest of the EU. Madam President, I would like Russia's development is going in the wrong direction, and its military expansion and aggression have hit Ukraine and Georgia in particular. In 2008, Russia attacked Georgia, and in 2014 it entered Ukraine, where it actively contributes to increased armed conflict in the eastern part of the country. In addition, the Crimean Peninsula has been annexed. Sweden and the EU need to mark and act against the Russian policy of aggression in Ukraine. Russia must respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of its neighbours. The sanctions imposed by the EU against Russia should remain in place until the sovereignty of Ukraine is accepted. Madam President, I would like The focus should continue to be on the objectives of democratic development, the rule of law, the protection of human rights, the fight against corruption and discrimination, independent media, the role of civil society in the construction of society and gender equality. The partnership also enhances the stability and prosperity of these countries, not least through greater respect for human rights. Democratic development, but also trade, contributes to the reduction of tension and increased community. Over the last decade, trade between the EU and the Eastern Partnership has almost doubled, making partner countries the EU's tenth largest trading partner. Madam President, I would like The EU's incentive-based approach(more for more and less for less) is important and will benefit those partner countries that are genuinely committed to reforms for greater democracy, respect for human rights and gender equality. They receive more support from the EU. This principle of cooperation has shown great success, as we see that several partner countries have made democratic progress. Deepening economic integration with and between partner countries, FTAs and bilateral agreements boosts the growth and prosperity of citizens and has also contributed to greater security and easier mobility of citizens across national borders. Madam President, I would like The EU should continue to increase cooperation with these partner countries through trade agreements and association agreements. Much remains to be done, but the ongoing and future reforms and commitments to cooperation will result in better development and economically sustainable societies with less corruption, increased democracy, respect for democratic development and respect for human dignity, in which the equal and inviolable value of all people is respected. To conclude, Madam President, I would also like to stress the importance of integrating climate and environmental work, such as the EU's green gift, into the partnership. CO2 emissions do not know any boundaries, and the EU, especially in its immediate vicinity, should be leading and driving the process of achieving the Paris Agreement and a temperature increase of not more than 1.5 degrees.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-489	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I am pleased that the climate has been brought into the report and that, as a result, there has been an increased focus on resilience on the climate issue. I am also pleased, Madam President, that several parties who have been up in the speaker's seat before me have also put a great deal of emphasis on the climate issue. It is not possible to build sustainable societies or develop democracy, create long-term peace and freedom for people, unless the climate issue is also resolved. It is ultimately a threat to our rights and freedoms. Having said that, I would like to say that in an increasingly shaky world, in a world where democracy and human rights are going in the wrong direction in several places, cooperation becomes more important. It becomes more important that countries such as Sweden, one of the most advanced countries in the world in terms of human rights and democracy, take a great responsibility to push for cooperation and ensure that cooperation revolves around the fundamental values. We have done so with the Eastern Partnership. As the partnership is now to develop and continue to be strengthened in the future, it will be important to keep in mind that it is fundamentally good if the EU can continue to develop and expand. We shall ensure that peace is preserved on our continent and that freedom is growing on our continent. More countries will go to the EU instead of being tricked into going to Russia, or even worse, being attacked or threatened by Russia. For this, the Eastern Partnership is an incredibly important tool. Madam President, I would like Perhaps there is no greater threat to freedom in our surrounding world than Vladimir Putin and the Russian regime. The aggression that Russia shows against its surrounding world makes this type of cooperation increasingly important. Basically, human rights and our rights and freedoms must come first and foremost in such cooperation. It is also obvious that when countries such as Armenia make progress in these areas, we should be generous and help and encourage. When countries like Belarus go the wrong way, we will make sure to respond by being tougher back. It is also obvious that developing the partnership must be complemented by tough sanctions against Russia. You have to work on both methods at the same time. Madam President, I would like Nor should we forget the importance of economic relations between countries. I am pleased that this issue is being highlighted here. It is not possible to build a rule of law and democracy in the long term unless we also ensure that there is prosperity, unless we ensure the eradication of poverty that creates inequality, unless we ensure that human rights that are at the root of prosperity are also protected. It is therefore the case for those who support the market economy and capitalism in the sense of universal and equal ownership. Without that kind of human rights, without the right of people, goods, capital and services to move across borders, for people to care for their own home, without those rights it is not possible to invest in the climate in the future. Then it is not possible to invest in breaking social divides and highlighting minorities if human rights are not also safeguarded. I am pleased that the Eastern Partnership highlights resilience in the economy. Fundamentally, the free economy is also about human rights. Madam President, I would like One thing that the European Union, Europe and our eastern neighbours who are part of the Eastern Partnership are also struggling with is something that we have in common, namely that there are leaders, forces, who want to combat human rights, who want to discourage the emergence of minorities, who want to roll back the rights of LGBT people or issues of sexual and reproductive health and rights. There, the Eastern Partnership must be a force, a method and a tool to get those types of countries at risk from such ideologies and leaders on the right foot. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Sweden has taken a leading role in the fight against corruption, the construction of the rule of law, the spread of human rights, the market economy and trade. I look forward to the Eastern Partnership continuing to develop in a direction that means more resilience and a more coherent, open and free Europe.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-498	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has in its report If the worst should happen, examined how the government and the responsible authorities work with the safety of nuclear activities and how to plan to prevent and manage a possible nuclear accident. The report shows that safety work is largely carried out in an effective manner, and that is of course positive and extremely important. However, the Swedish National Audit Office also finds that there are shortcomings in a number of important areas. The Swedish National Audit Office therefore considers that the state's work to prevent and manage nuclear accidents is not entirely satisfactory. One of the recommendations made by the Swedish National Audit Office in the report to the Government is that it wants to commission MSB, in collaboration with other stakeholders, to develop a national strategy for clean-up after a nuclear accident. The Government's response to the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendation is that it agrees with the assessment that a more developed national strategy may be needed, but it does not go further than that. Madam President, I would like For the Swedish Democrats, the safety of this type of activity is always a top priority. A nuclear accident or an attack on a nuclear facility, resulting in the release of radioactive substances, would have very serious consequences for human life and health. In order to be able to prepare effectively, for how to deal with both short-term and long-term consequences of radioactive emissions, a national strategy needs to be developed. This must be done in such a way that there is no doubt whatsoever about which authority has any responsibility at any given time. The Swedish Democrats therefore consider that the government's response in the letter to consider only giving MSB this task is substandard. The Swedish Democrats therefore propose that the government commission MSB to develop such a strategy as soon as possible. Madam President, I would like I therefore support the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 2.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-504	Madam President, I would like Significant parts of the state's safety work to prevent and manage nuclear accidents have certain shortcomings. The work is not entirely satisfactory. This is stated by the Swedish National Audit Office in its conclusions after reviewing the state's work to prevent and manage nuclear accidents. It's pretty serious. For us, security work is crucial. It is also noted that a large part of the security work works properly, but the Swedish National Audit Office's conclusion is that the shortcomings that exist are serious and that they have existed for a long time without being dealt with or corrected. Madam President, I would like Sweden is currently in a pandemic of a rare kind. Here it becomes clear that our society has difficulty protecting its functionality and protecting people's lives and health and property. If you have a lack of preparedness in normal cases, it becomes particularly evident when a crisis comes. It is therefore important not only to identify risks and vulnerabilities but also to address them before a crisis occurs. Therefore, the Center Party believes it is particularly serious that the Government does not propose sharp measures according to the Swedish National Audit Office's report. Madam President, I would like Crisis preparedness based on the principle of responsibility needs clearly defined responsibilities. Unfortunately, the Swedish National Audit Office notes that the division of responsibilities between MSB, the Radiation Safety Authority and the county boards of affected counties is unclear, which may actually make the handling of a nuclear accident more difficult. This ambiguity can definitely contribute to inefficiency and delays in developing robust nuclear accident preparedness. Seriously, the Swedish National Audit Office also writes that MSB and SSM give different advice. The government certainly believes that it is important that the role and tasks of MSB and SSM are clarified, but only vague promises are made to review the division of responsibilities. We think that this is far too weak a way to deal with, given the sharp criticism that exists. We hope that the Government will take on board the Swedish National Audit Office's report harder than that. Madam President, I would like Perhaps the most serious thing about this is that the preparations for the clean-up of land, water and property are inadequate. That's because we don't have a national strategy. This is also due to the unclear division of roles between authorities. Overall, the Swedish National Audit Office says that this jeopardises the effective management of the long-term consequences of a nuclear accident. That is, of course, serious criticism. For us, it is remarkable that the government is not doing anything sharp about this, but that this is where we are at the vaguest. The government states that it is considering giving MSB the task of developing a national strategy for clean-up in collaboration with the relevant actors. For us, it's far too vague. We want to see stronger efforts. In conclusion, the Center Party feels that the entire letter is too weak and vague. I therefore support the Center Party's reservation No 1.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-517	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the state's work to prevent and manage nuclear accidents. The Swedish National Audit Office has examined whether the Government and the responsible authorities The Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency, MSB, the Radiation Safety Agency, SSM, and the County Administrative Boards of Uppsala, Kalmar, Halland and Västmanland County are working satisfactorily with the safety of nuclear activities. The review has aimed at both preventing the occurrence of nuclear accidents and to be prepared to deal with events that still occur. The conclusion of the review is that the safety work is largely carried out in an effective way, and that is reassuring. However, there are elements showing shortcomings, which is why the Swedish National Audit Office has submitted some comments and recommendations. Among other things, it is noted that there is a lack of a national strategy for clean-up and that it is not clear in the relevant authorities when the clean-up is to be carried out. The Swedish National Audit Office has made the following recommendations to the Government: 中 Clarify the division of responsibilities between MSB and SSM in coordinating preparedness actions. This should be done by amending the official instructions. 中 task MSB, in cooperation with other stakeholders, to develop a national strategy for post-nuclear clean-up. 中 Ensure that there are legal conditions for continued handling of iodine tablets. There are also concrete recommendations for both MSB and SSM. Mr President, I would like to In the light of the report, the government has proposed clarifying the role and assignment of MSB and SSM by reviewing the regulation on instructions for authorities to clarify the division of responsibilities. An important part of the long-term management is, according to the government, the clean-up of land, water and property. MSB has an important role to play in promoting coordination in this area and is already working on developing a national manual for clean-up. However, the government agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office that a more developed strategy may be needed and is therefore considering giving MSB the task of developing, in collaboration with other stakeholders, a national strategy for clean-up. Mr President, I would like to From the Committee on Defence, we welcome the development that has taken place in the field of nuclear preparedness. However, I would like to stress how important it is that we continue to work on the prevention and management of nuclear accidents. It is also important that nuclear preparedness in Sweden is regularly evaluated and developed. Finally, we look forward to MSB's work on developing a national manual for clean-up. Mr President, I would like to With this intervention, I call for the proposal of the Committee on Defence to be approved in the report.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-527	Mr President, I would like to A clearer division of responsibilities between authorities is a must to ensure people's safety and the functionality of society. It concerns the state's efforts to prevent and manage nuclear accidents as well as in most other critical situations. We can see that, not least, during the current pandemic. It is also very important that supervision works. Mr President, I would like to In terms of both supervision and burden-sharing, the government has been too slow to act. In the event of a nuclear accident, the country and people are really vulnerable. One reason is inadequate government governance. Among other things, there is an unclear division of responsibilities between supervisory authorities. Another reason is that there is also no national strategy on how to deal with the clean-up and disposal of waste. It is a really good report from the Swedish National Audit Office, and I still think it is positive that the Government has taken on board the Swedish National Audit Office's calls. We Moderates think that it is important to have a clearer interaction between stakeholders and that the inclusion of industry is a real priority. We believe that this would provide more effective management of the measures that the Swedish National Audit Office has shown. We Moderates now very much want the government to assume its responsibility for government tasks and to provide clear information about the division of responsibilities and the risks involved. It is also important to ensure that all stakeholders receive continuous updates in order to be prepared if anything happens. Mr President, I would like to It is totally unacceptable and not sustainable in any way that there are indeed such large gaps in the state's work to prevent and deal with the consequences of nuclear accidents. In fact, I was shocked when I read the Swedish National Audit Office's review. The Government has written in its reply that they believe that Sweden has good nuclear preparedness and that it is of great importance that Sweden continuously develops its nuclear preparedness. Here I think it is important to highlight one of the risks of the dismantling of Sweden's nuclear power. Yes, there is, of course, the risk of our knowledge in the field being eroded by the fact that people do not remain in the field of work with their skills. But it will also reduce the number of researchers on the subject. It would be very tragic if this were to happen and, if so, an important part that would be lacking in our readiness. To conclude, I would like to say to the government parties: now you are really going to implement what you have said you are going to do, because we will of course be following this closely.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-535	Mr President, I would like to It feels great and a little breathtaking to stand here and debate an issue that can be interpreted in thousands of years' time. High-level waste, i.e. spent nuclear fuel, should be safely disposed of for a hundred thousand years. The person authorised to carry out nuclear activities is responsible for the safe management and disposal of nuclear waste arising from the operation. This obligation represents a very long-term commitment for the licence holder. Even if a permit has been revoked or expired, the obligation to safely manage and dispose of spent nuclear fuel and waste and to decommission and decommission the facility remains. The government is now proposing some clarifications and additions to the final responsibility, and these are the proposals we are debating here today. It proposes, inter alia, that the State take over responsibility if there is no one who can carry out the responsibility. The State shall also be responsible for taking the necessary measures until a holder of an authorisation is able to re-enforce the obligations. The Government shall decide which authority to take the measures. The proposal also proposes that the Government should require permission to finalize a geological repository. With regard to the financing of the State's costs, the Government proposes that the State be allowed to use the funds that the licence holder would otherwise have had to use to fulfil the obligations. Mr President, I would like to From the Committee on Defence, we welcome the fact that the state's responsibility for certain nuclear activities is now being clarified by law. Finally, I support the proposal in the report.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-542	Mr President, I would like to We Moderates think this proposal is a good one. It is positive that the law is clarified so that the state takes responsibility for certain nuclear activities. We Moderates also want to see a clearer collaboration between the business community and the public sector. Swedish Nuclear Fuel Management is a company that assumes its responsibility to safely use and store fuel. Then we must take responsibility for the clarity of the legislation. Nuclear waste must be taken care of, in the short and long term, in order to protect people and the environment. A final repository for operational waste is located in Forsmark, where it is likely to be well placed to handle the waste in a long-term and sustainable way in the future. Mr President, I would like to We will need much more of both nuclear and renewable energy to reduce emissions. For the electricity system to function, there must always be a balance between the generation and consumption of electricity. The fact that the weather varies and affects both production and consumption is one of the challenges when it comes to maintaining a balance in the electricity system. The risk of electricity shortage is currently increasing as the Ringhals 2 nuclear power plant is closed at the end of the year. Balancing during strained winters is further hampered by the fact that the electricity market has changed. There is a steady increase in renewable electricity, mainly in the form of wind power. But from a balance perspective, the amount of production becomes uncertain and more difficult to plan than other production. At the same time, nuclear power is gradually being scaled down in Sweden. One advantage of nuclear power is that it can be planned more and is therefore more predictable than wind power, for example. As early as 2017, the Defence Committee concluded in its report Resistance that normal electricity supply will not be guaranteed in a war situation. The Swedish Defence Committee also stressed the importance of prior procedures and structures for both prioritization and rationing in case of increased preparedness. With it in the back, decisions are made that increase the imbalance in the electricity system. The political message from the government that nuclear power is to be decommissioned thus poses risks not only to our energy supply but also to our preparedness. It also contributes to the cooling off of study interest and the disappearance of a greater proportion of the significant nuclear activities in the country's universities and colleges. It's troubling. Mr President, I would like to We should invest more in research into nuclear energy and safeguard the maintenance of a safe and secure system for more energy and a more environmentally friendly society both in Sweden and globally. It is also needed because we have final storage in Forsmark. Research and education require stability over time and cannot sway in line with economic trends. If there is a political will for this, it enables the higher education institutions to contribute fully to the future nuclear power operation, but also, of course, to knowledge of final disposals and other things. Mr President, I would like to I think that a reasonable energy policy must address the following three objectives: Sweden's future welfare should be secured, Sweden should make an effective contribution to building a global welfare society and Sweden should not only meet its own climate goal but also make a powerful contribution to achieving global climate goals. Then we need to take responsibility for having a balance in the electricity system, for increasing research and training in nuclear activities and for having good electrical preparedness even in the event of a crisis or war.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-553	Mr President, I would like to This debate is about a clearer state responsibility for certain nuclear activities. Nuclear power is the human activity that, in a time suit, affects human survival the most. We are talking about absolutely terrible horizons. This and the previous generation have set their mark for many thousands of generations to come. It deserves to be mentioned. Since we in the Center Party have traditionally been sceptical about nuclear power, we have been anxious to get safe and secure systems for the nuclear power Sweden still has and will have a number of decades ahead. The pursuit of nuclear activities imposes far-reaching obligations on the licence holder. The safe management and disposal of nuclear waste or non-reusable nuclear material shall be ensured if the waste or substance has been generated in the operation. Even if a permit is withdrawn or expired, there is an obligation to safely manage and dispose of spent nuclear fuel and waste and to decommission and dismantle the facility. Responsibility remains until all obligations have been fulfilled and the government has taken a decision on it. the obligations have not been fulfilled until the final disposal of the spent nuclear fuel or waste has been completed; The amendments now proposed in the Environmental Code clarify the State's responsibility for certain nuclear activities. It's basically good. If there is no one who can be held responsible for the safety of a nuclear activity, the State must assume that responsibility. It is also a good thing that the responsibility of the state is limited to the necessary security measures and ends when an authorisation holder can take back responsibility. The necessary measures shall be financed by the funds of the Nuclear Waste Fund. The most important thing in this whole proposal is that the State does not assume cost liability but that the measures are financed through the Nuclear Waste Fund, which is very good. Let me also comment on what the previous speaker, Alexandra Anstrell, said about the fact that the risk of electricity shortages is currently increasing. It probably depends on what horizon you have. Right now we have extremely good electricity, an extremely large water supply and low demand. I don't think the risk of a shortage of electricity has ever been less than right now. Last year, for example, we had very large exports. It is all about time perspective, but it is another issue. I support the committee's proposal.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-562	Mr President, I would like to I'm glad Lars Thomsson brought this up with a lack of electricity and a time horizon. The other day there was a report that the shortage of electricity in autumn and winter is feared to be quite large, especially if winter becomes difficult. That is in view of what I mentioned. We cannot just plan for how much electricity we have today; we must also look ahead. Of course, things look different in the country. In parts of Sweden we have a lot of hydropower. This applies, for example, to my former county of Jämtland, which is a large hydropower producer. That's probably where you're gonna be okay. But in southern Sweden there have been varying shortages of electricity regardless of the season. I don't know what it looks like today. But the report shows how things can go forward, and then we should take responsibility here today.
i-3SCQagHjgdVuGoBrNQiAx3	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your comments, Alexandra Anstrell! When it comes to the risk of electrical deficiency, it depends on which glasses you wear. In the half-long perspective, in a few years' time, we have historically – in the last two years – had a record surplus of electricity generation. We have exported more than ever: 15 to 20 terawatt hours. To give an example, we know that wind power will be expanded in the future and more than doubled with investment decisions already taken. Until 2023 we have almost 45 terawatt hours in production. So it goes from about 20 to 45 terawatt hours with the decisions made. I consider the risk of a shortage of electricity to be very small, which I think the Swedish Energy Agency also does. On the other hand, there may be power shortages, but that is more because we have poor transmission capacity in the country. We have simply been too weak to invest in grids for a long time. Although Swedish power grids and others have made a strong uplift in recent years, we are lagging behind. It is a long-term planning that we now have to pay a bit for, so it is not quite the same thing.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-568	Mr President, I would like to As early as 2017, the Swedish Defence Committee's report stated that there is not enough electricity to make it through crisis and war. I spoke to a man in Västerås earlier today. He laughed a little and said that Västerås should be some kind of electricity capital but that you still have quite a lot longer power outages. I think we need to take this seriously. Wind power is very weather-dependent; it is impossible to escape. If it's really cold it usually doesn't blow very much. We need electricity to cope with the increasing electrification. I'm really thinking about it from the point of view of preparedness. If we get bad power there are quite a lot of things that will not work, perhaps mainly in the big cities, where electric cars are common and much more needed there. I'd say we're not as good with electricity as we should, if we're going to talk about really having a good civilian preparedness. Having said this, doesn't Lars Thomsson believe that the Swedish Defence Committee's report from 2017 is correct?
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-572	Mr President, I would like to I also see that we have major challenges in terms of electricity supply from a preparedness perspective. There is no doubt about it, but it is more because we have a centrally built system that is very vulnerable and easy to sabotage. If anyone knows anything about power outages, I think it happens to be Mr Thomsson who lives on Gotland. We have had 18 total interruptions there for the last two years and are well acquainted with the enormous problems that this leads to. This is certainly not justifiable, but it is not, in fact, because we have a shortage of electricity, but because there is a shortage of transmission capacity. We have a network that is not sufficiently maintained and expanded. In the future, the preparedness perspective actually benefits small-scale and decentralised production more than large-scale nuclear power. One of the first things that happens in a crisis or war situation is that nuclear power is turned off, because it is a security risk in itself. A good response to electricity supply is that it should be small-scale, decentralised and preferably renewable. In fact, it actually blows more in winter, and it becomes a good combination with solar power, which of course gives more in summer. It mixes well, and so you can handle a lot of the issue of impact. We have every reason to move forward in this discussion. We are far from achieving this – we are in complete agreement on that.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-577	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. We're going to debate social services and children's issues. In principle, I have worked with children, young people and their parents throughout my career. At first it was in recreation centres, where I met many young people who were on edge with the community in different ways. It was truancy from school and home environments that might not work or were the safest. To them, the recreation center became a second home, a place where there was security and adults who cared for them. It became natural after a few years that I took the step to social work, where I remained until today, when I sit in the Riksdag. What, then, is my stakeout after all these years? Well, Mr President, I can see that in social work there are both rice and rose. It is extremely positive that much is being invested in preventive work today, but it is less good that many municipalities unfortunately wait far too long to break negative behaviours that are accelerating. In our eagerness to work preventively, we have sometimes lost sight of making realistic assessments when the municipality's own efforts are not enough. That is when we risk criminality and abuse accelerating, and that is when the home relationship of the child or the young person in the dysfunctional family is without security and control. Mr President, I would like to We politicians of all colours are fighting for children who grow up in Sweden to have good conditions for a good life. Now that the Convention on the Rights of the Child has finally become Swedish law, it is good that the ongoing investigation Future Social Services has been commissioned to provide support for the interpretation of the new law, the purpose of which is precisely to make social services' efforts more accessible and adapted to the needs of children. We therefore look forward to the study of the Social Services Act to be presented after the summer. Mr President, I would like to Historically, Sweden has been good at implementing reforms that have facilitated the role of parents and created good conditions for growing up. That is why child benefits were introduced for everyone, and that is why we created parental insurance that gave parents a unique opportunity to be at home with their children. We know that for most children and families the reforms have been a good thing. But for children who suffer in the family, no more time with their parents has always been favorable, but there, preschool and school may have been part of society's important compensatory efforts. When there are abuses or other negative events in a child's home, the relationship with the preschool staff or coach on the football team may be what makes the child able to get up every morning. Mr President, I would like to The Social Services Act is largely based on voluntary efforts. My experience therefore tells me that successful preventive efforts are those that have created confidence and are perceived positively because they are offered to all citizens of a municipality. Good examples of this are family centres, parental education and family counselling. At the family center, new parents meet. They can be offered parental training and, if necessary, family counselling. Through a positive first experience of social services it is easier to pass on if you need more help. Good prevention creates the very trust that makes it easier to accept help when you get into more difficulties. Unfortunately, in order to provide the right help at the right time, society sometimes has to act with coercive measures in order to quickly break destructive behaviour. A placement in a special youth home or nursing home may then be considered. A successful such effort may be crucial to breaking the negative spiral. However, institutionalisation is not enough. Getting back to school and a life without crime and drugs also require efforts at home when you come back. What happens to little Kalle when he moves back home? Is there enough support for the school to work? Has there been an improvement in the family? Are there adult positive role models that can back Kalle up when he moves back home? Here the institutional placement and the home move need to be coordinated into a functioning care chain that gives the young a real opportunity for a better life. Mr President, I would like to For children who are housed at an early age, the situation is even more complicated. Here society needs to be much better in terms of monitoring and requirements for the biological family in the event of a home move. Given the situation around the girl called Little Heart, it is quite obvious that there was not enough control and follow-up of the biological parents. That is why it is very good that the committee and the government have taken the initiative to review the legislation in force, so that further children will not be exposed to the terrible thing that struck Little Heart and her family home. Mr President, I would like to Around the country in our social offices, extensive efforts are being made to give people a better life. However, social work is demanding and needs skilled and trained staff. Therefore, the government launched an initiative already in 2016 to both strengthen staff skills and increase staffing. In the initiative, which is still ongoing, we can clearly see that the number of employees has actually increased among our social workers. Our municipalities also replied in the survey that it is positive that the initiative has contributed to a better work situation, less stress and fewer drop-outs from social work. Mr President, I would like to In order to further improve the quality of social work, more businesses now need to have a special permit from IVO, the Inspection of Health and Social Care, to carry out, for example, various forms of housing in social work. The demands also increase that we have evidence-based methods in our work, especially in our preventive work. Forte has an exciting research project in progress that compares different treatment methods. Mr President, I would like to Social services are also actively involved in taking advantage of digitalisation. There are unique opportunities to simplify administration but also to develop support measures online. Mr President, I would like to Changes and improvements in social services are constantly in focus. Therefore, the major review of the Social Services Act is important. Because just as society saw the need for poor care and child care once upon a time, even today we see injustices in our modern welfare society. Children grow up in vulnerable environments, and people live on the streets. More and more young people are committing grosser crimes. But basically we have a good welfare system that provides good support to most people. But in the margins, people fall off our welfare net. Social efforts must be cost-effective. We know that if we invest early we get healthy and educated citizens back in a society where many people can fit.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-597	Mr President, I would like to Every year 300 - 350 motions for resolutions are being discussed in this House. Because of the large number of reports, the treatment of these reports may sometimes be a little trivial. Questions and motions are washed off at a furious pace and are not always given the attention they deserve and not always the reflection and discussion that the questions and proposals deserve. Mr President, I would like to The report we are now debating undoubtedly deserves more than a routine reading. The report deals with such extremely important issues. It is about social services, how society should promote people's economic and social security, people's equality in living conditions and people's active participation in society. Not least is the report about how all children's rights to a safe and good upbringing can be secured. Unfortunately, as a society, we all too often fail in this important task. Many socially vulnerable children are betrayed and do not receive the security they deserve or the support and help, or even the schooling, to which they are entitled. On the part of the Moderates, we therefore have a large number of proposals and reservations in this report on, among other things, follow-up to the schooling of children placed, on efforts to improve the health of children placed and on the need for certification of family and emergency homes. Mr President, I would like to The ultimate betrayal struck little Esmeralda, the little happy girl who did not even turn four years and whose fate I am convinced has touched not only me but everyone who participates in this debate in depth. Society had initially done all the right for Esmeralda. According to LVU, she was cared for only a few weeks old because of the problems her parents had and made them directly unfit as parents. Society placed little Esmeralda in a family home where she got a safe and loving start in life, just as we want all children to have. But then, Mr President, everything went wrong. Esmeralda's biological parents claimed their right and were right. Ten months after the biological parents had regained custody of the Administrative Court of Appeal, contrary to social services' judgment, Esmeralda died, or Little Heart as she was called. Now her biological mother is charged with murder. This case is so bottomless tragic. The parliament and the government have a heavy responsibility. We Moderates have been pushing for a change in legislation for many years. We have pointed out that children's best interests and the need for security and continuity weigh too easily and that biological parents' interests weigh too heavily in current legislation. Esmeralda is dead, but I don't want her to die for nothing. Now the Social Committee, after the Moderate Committee initiative, is working for sharp changes in legislation, a legislation that really puts children's best interests first – a lex Little Heart. This work concerns a number of proposals on, among other things, custody transfers which would otherwise have been dealt with in the context of the report that we are now debating, but which is now being dealt with in a special way, which I am very pleased about. Malin Lernfelt wrote the following about Esmeralda in a leader published in, among others, the newspaper Bohusfärnen: No one managed to save her. But she will save many other vulnerable children. I think it's our responsibility that Lernfelt gets it right. It is our responsibility to quickly put in place a lex Little Heart that protects the children who have got a hard start in life. Mr President, I would like to I have now said the most important thing that I have to say in this debate. Nevertheless, I have much more to say. In this report we have moderated no less than 30 reservations. We have proposals to strengthen the work line and reduce the cheating of support for livelihoods. With grants, counterclaims must be complied with. We want to see activity requirements and grant payments that do not cement inequality. Today, support is often paid to the man in a household. We believe that the support should be paid individually to the adults who are responsible for the household and that it should of course be possible to make unannounced home visits. Those who do not accept home visits should not be entitled to subsistence support. What I also want to highlight in particular is the need to strengthen social services, and not least prevention. Social services in many parts of Sweden are on their knees. Despite the hard work of staff, it is difficult to do enough. And, unfortunately, with a high workload, preventive work often suffers. We Moderates therefore want to make it easier for social services staff to take advantage of the opportunities of digitalisation to free up time to work with preventive measures. We also want to see a national survey of the preventive work of social services and establish a national knowledge centre for preventive work in social care for children and young people. If the pressure on social services is to be reduced in the long term, preventive work is crucial. That is why, Mr President, I would like to call for reservation 1 on a strengthened and clarified preventive mission for social services. Of course I support the other 29 moderate reservations, but for the winning time I therefore only agree to reservation 1. Finally, I would like to highlight the issue of homelessness. Homelessness is, of course, a major failure for a welfare country like Sweden. Strengthened efforts are needed to reduce homelessness. But what is needed above all is work based on methodology that we know works. The Bostad method first is a successful method, and I am pleased that we are now making an announcement to the government about a group of experts to further develop that method.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-612	Mr President, I would like to I shall now give a speech within the remit of the Member of Parliament, Carina Ståhl Herrstedt. I would like to endorse Amendment No 18. A well-functioning safety net is important in the Swedish welfare society. People must be given the necessary support to be able to function in society, while at the same time demanding that they take responsibility for both their livelihood and life in general. Rights are also subject to obligations. When people receive support, there must always be an activation and performance requirement, as it has many positive effects. In today's Sweden, the difference between financial aid and salary can unfortunately be very small for a family with children, which both sends strange signals to the family and is disrespectful to taxpayers. The benefits of working should always be greater than the benefits of receiving benefits. The Swedish Democrats believe that this needs to be reviewed and investigated in order to do something about the difference between benefits and wages and to review the regulatory framework for support for part-time work. Mr President, I would like to The work and functioning of social services are crucial for a well-functioning society. The responsibility and mission of the social services is very extensive, and one of the important tasks is to help and support children and young people in vulnerable life situations. In recent decades honor-related violence and oppression have established itself as a phenomenon in Sweden. Reports are increasingly coming from people who live in an oppressive and violent culture of honor. This severely limits their ability to live their lives as they wish. In the name of honour, they are often subjected to harassment, threats and violence by the people who should be closest to them. Those who manage to break free from the oppression of honour cultures end up in a particularly vulnerable situation when they are forced to break completely with their previous lives. The Swedish Democrats believe that it is of the utmost importance that society can offer close follow-up even after the most acute phase has ended. Social services should have the practice of offering the vulnerable a contact person who can provide support and guidance in building a life as part of the majority society. Good care and treatment of children and young people who have been placed outside the home for various reasons must be ensured in order to equip them for the future. Society's safety net will provide them with a safe life, both socially and economically. No children or adolescents should be forced, against their will, to genital mutilation or forced marriages or to other psychological or physical abuse. Clear action plans to prevent this must therefore be developed, but also action plans for how society should act when something has already happened. Mr President, I would like to Cooperation between schools, school health care and social services on children placed outside the home due to previous lack of care needs to be strengthened. Children who cannot stay with their parents for various reasons can be placed in family homes, and when children are placed in family homes, it is of course of the utmost importance that the home is judged as appropriate and that an investigation is made of the ability of the family home parents to meet the child's needs. Municipalities must offer their families training and ensure that they carry out good quality care. The notifications to the social services leading to action are currently available for consultation. However, the legal situation is unclear as regards the notifications that have not led to action. The Swedish Democrats believe that it is important to clarify the legal situation even for notifications that do not lead to any action, so that these can be used for future investigations. It must also be made easier to cooperate across municipal boundaries around social care for children and young people. All obstacles should be removed in order to improve the safety net for vulnerable children and young people. At present, it is difficult for a municipality to access other municipalities' information, and there is therefore a risk that family homes that have proved unsuitable in one municipality can continue to receive children in or from another municipality. It is not reasonable that inappropriate family homes can again and without municipalities' knowledge of their history make new applications that lead to them having children placed with them. In order to make it easier for municipalities to secure safe family homes, we believe that the family homes' previous history should be collected in a national database. This minimises the risk of child harm. Mr President, I would like to Today, there are great demands on social secretaries in terms of professional skills and experience. It is the social services and the social secretary who have a crucial role for many vulnerable children, and therefore experience, continuity and trust are important prerequisites for the work. Unfortunately, the staff turnover of social workers is high today, and often people are forced to take in temporary workers. Many social security officers are thinking of quitting, and some are sick. In order to recruit and retain social security secretaries, social services need to be an attractive employer offering competitive conditions. Several measures are needed to strengthen the employees of social services. It is important for employers to strengthen access to managers, but also mentoring for newly graduated social secretaries is important. In addition, employers need to create awareness and action against threatening and violent situations. Social secretaries must be supported and helped to report more and feel secure in this. Social secretaries shall have the possibility of career positions where qualified social secretaries receive greater responsibility but also higher salary. In order to relieve the social security secretary, social services assistants should be employed to take over and relieve part of the social security secretary's duties. It needs to be investigated whether to make licence requirements for government employees in social work in the same way as in medical professions, for example, or among teachers. Just as important as raising the level of competence of social services staff, it is that the staff are continuously examined and formally tested in an appropriate manner. A licence requirement for social security secretaries would increase status, competence requirements and suitability review. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to touch on the tremendous tragedy of Esmeralda, which was called Little Heart. The case is a clear signal that children's rights must be strengthened and taken before parents. Of course, we must do everything we can to ensure that something like this never happens again. This is why we are contributing to the fact that a reference group is currently working with rapid, urgent solutions to strengthen children's rights in the Social Services Act, among other things.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-625	Mr President, I would like to Ann-Christine From Utterstedt referred to the supply aid, and I thought of this with a demand for counter-claims. I recall that, a few years ago, a counterclaim was included in the Social Services Act, so that it is included in the text. I therefore wonder what kind of counter-claims Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt intends to be included in the Social Services Act with regard to subsistence support.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-626	Mr President, I would like to It should be performance counter-requirements, of course, and they should be presented in order to continue receiving the grant. Today, it may be that subsidies are simply paid out and that you may not even live in our country but still receive subsidies. So there is a little difference in the yardsticks, so a clarification of a counterpart must be added.
i-5BieewT8qqKft6uWcPNDPB	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mrs From Utterstedt, for your answer. My picture is not the same as Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedts, but I think there is a counterclaim today. Supply aid is not paid without a counterclaim. Traineeships must be accepted and various measures must be taken in order to receive support. It would be interesting to hear which municipalities Ann-Christine From Utterstedt has got this picture from.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-628	Mr President, I would like to It is quite clear that Mr Wiking and I do not have the same picture. In fact, in their local places, it happens that the quid pro quo that exists is that you should fill in a document and that you should look for social services, but that is not what it looks like anyway. That's my picture of it all. If that were the way Mr Wiking described it, it would, for example, be impossible for a person who does not live in our country to receive a contribution. However, this is actually happening today; we know that. Then there must be something wrong with the system, and this must be corrected.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-630	Mr President, I would like to Social services have an incredible responsibility to live up to the intentions of the Social Services Act, which describes, among other things, the release and development of the individual's resources while these people should take responsibility for their own situation. This should also be based on respect for human self-determination and integrity. I have great respect for those who work in social services. They work under strict demands and will live up to what I just mentioned and free up the individual's resources. This should be done with fact-based investigations that are not based on the investigator's own experiences. This is particularly important when it comes to children. It is not always possible for children to be heard or to receive the information to which they are entitled under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. For this to become a reality, greater knowledge of children's rights is needed, both in social services and in the courts, police and so on. It is also about having knowledge of how to talk with children, so that you do not affect the child in its story. For this to become a reality, more competence is needed, but evidence-based methods are needed in the work of social services in particular. This applies both when we talk about care, housing and social relations and when we talk about investigations according to LVU. Mr President, I would like to At the moment, as others have also mentioned, work is under way to change the LVU, the law on the care of young people. This is very important. It is a matter of clarifying what applies in the case of disposal or when a disposal is to cease. For me, it is very important that we keep a balance in this work so that our fear of not taking care of children who need to be taken care of does not pass on that we take care of children who do not need to be taken care of and who may remain in their biological families. Instead, it is a question of supporting the biological parents so that they can cope with this parenthood. When we talk about care, it is also about family homes. Family homes are important. I think it is time for the government to address the issue of creating some form of register for our family homes, both to show which family homes are available and, above all, to keep a register of the family homes that have been rejected and that have not been good enough, so that a family that is failing in one municipality cannot become family homes, for example, in the neighbouring municipality. Mr President, I would like to What I have been talking about, I am building on in the argument that there is a breach of confidentiality. This is about more than allowing children or young people over the age of 15 to accept voluntary efforts, even if the guardian does not agree. In fact, it is about being able to have conversations with children without the guardians' knowledge and without the guardians being in the room. If we're going to put the child at the centre, we need to give the child a chance to give his picture of the story. It is also about the fact that in some cases we may need to have conversations with school or, for example, the BVC in order to really put the child's best interests at the centre rather than talking about two disputing parents and assessing whose story is the most true. It is impossible to talk about these things without mentioning the case of Esmeralda or the television documentary that has just been on SVT. As for Esmeralda, we all know what ended up in – an incredibly tragic event. If we do not have evidence-based methods when we conduct our investigations and see to it that we risk this happening. In the case of two disputing parents, we need to look after the child's best interests. The documentary shows what is actually happening – you focus on one or the other parent's story but forget the child's best interests. Mr President, I would like to The supply support is a lifeline for many. This shall be temporary and shall be based on the release and development of one's own resources. It goes without saying to me that we are calling for activation and for the support to be shared equally between the adults responsible for the family's household. This shows that we believe in the individual's ability to support himself and take equal responsibility for the family's finances. Mr President, I would like to I cannot help but touch on the subject of international adoptions in this speech. There are proposals in the report on the organisation of international adoptions and support for searching for their roots. This is particularly relevant right now, because Sweden has now become aware of the parliamentary investigation that has been going on in Chile for a long time. It has now been established that there have been irregularities in adoptions from Chile to, among others, Sweden in the 70s, 80s and 90s. It is very important that the government now takes steps to see how we will help the people who are in Sweden today but who would not have been here if their parents had got their way. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that greater competence is needed in order for us, as I have mentioned, to manage a social service based on the release and development of the individual's resources, while at the same time relying on respect for human self-determination and integrity. Above all, evidence-based methods are needed in all the work that is being done. Of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Center Party in the report, but I am only in favour of reservation No 7. I also apologize for the fact that I, too, over time.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-643	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating one of society's most stigmatised groups and one of the most invisible parts of politics. We are going to talk about poverty and economic distribution. We're gonna talk about class. Poverty is not something a person chooses. It is the result of a social system that allows some people to be allocated very much and others extremely little. It is a question of economics, ideology and human vision. As a habit, from long living and working with people living in poverty, I have to look at people's shoes. It is a very simplified but clear indicator of people's life situation. I never go on a train or a tram, on a visit to a preschool or on a walk through a neighborhood without considering what people have on their feet. What I see speaks its own clear language. I've really seen everything from small children in winter shoes on a warm summer day to older ladies in worn-out Finnishs in the middle of cold winter. I can see on one and the same tram ride from the inner city of Gothenburg towards one of our suburbs how expensive shiny shoes are replaced by broken fabric shoes. Sometimes I even see people who don't have shoes at all. No, Mr President, poverty is not a free choice. It is not the case, as some bourgeois seem to believe, that when our newborn eyes meet the first light of life, the question is asked to us which class we want to belong to or which social group we think is the most chill. It is not that we there at BB decide how our whole life should be characterized, or for that matter our children. We all know that's not how it works. We know that it is the class of our parents, our gender, and also our ingenuity that determines both our own and our children's economic and social future. The most economically vulnerable in our country are the single mothers and the female pensioners. The wealthy, on the other hand, are mainly white men. No, poverty is not a free choice. It is a question of ideology and active political choices concerning economic distribution. Mr President, I would like to In recent years tax breaks have been made in the multibillion - dollar class of this country. Poor pensioners, single mothers, the unemployed and the sick have paid for the wealthy to have their homes cleaned. Men with income like Ulf Kristersson have got a slight raise of thousands of crowns a month by conjuring away the defense tax, and if someone wants a brand new kitchen, it is also something we should all pay for. At the same time, 150 000 children live in Sweden with financial assistance, some for most of their childhood, because their parents have low income or have no income. Nearly 200,000 children live in poverty in our rich country. To pay for this immense injustice, general welfare has been greatly destroyed. Housing policy has been replaced by a high-income market and the labour market has weakened. As a result, more and more people are facing social problems. When the victims are then referred to seeking support and help from society, they are told that they themselves are responsible for their situation. There is no self-awareness that it is the current policy that has contributed to people's vulnerability. Financial assistance is one of the ultimate social safety nets in our welfare society. It is designed to ensure that we as citizens are guaranteed a reasonable level of living. It is a guarantee that we will not end up in poverty and fall outside the framework of society, but will receive support to get us out of a difficult situation – a fine idea of a society that wants everyone to live in dignity. Financial assistance has two main tasks: to help people meet basic needs and, in the long term, to achieve self-sufficiency. There are two elements that are interrelated and very important. But over time, the focus has been on the latter. It seems that there is a distorted picture of people who are eligible for aid enjoying that existence, crampingly wanting to continue with it and therefore having to be beaten to change. The requirements for receiving supply support are rigorous. The risk of losing a legitimate income may depend on an error in an application, a misreported receipt or a missing visit. But the real problem is that when a parent loses income or receives delayed income, the children also suffer. We in the Left Party believe that this is not acceptable. We want the system to be reviewed. Children should be guaranteed a secure financial situation, and their best interests should always be put in focus. Mr President, I would like to This is a question that really pisses me off. In my country, children grow up who don't have proper shoes on their feet. There are single mothers who work like animals to serve their children a meal. In my country, we have old people who have built this country but who have been thanked by becoming poor pensioners – not by any free will but because that is how politics has decided. Everyone in this Parliament is guilty of this being what it looks like. That is why it is also our damn duty to change that. We in the Left Party believe that a functioning social service that provides a fair standard of living and puts children's rights in focus is a very important part of getting to that change. We are in favour of all our reservations, but I am only in favour of reservation 28.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-657	I am thinking of this with nurturing language. There may, of course, be different assessments of it, but it is good to avoid profanity on the floor of the House.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-658	Mr President, I would like to Social networks are created by people together. It is especially important when people face difficulties of various kinds. Now, under the coronapem, it becomes especially clear that loneliness becomes great without close relationships, without people around. Our Swedish welfare society should primarily be based on individuals and groups of people, such as family, relatives, neighbours and associations, being given the opportunity to take great responsibility for their close surroundings. The public should support the natural networks. Public, non-profit and private activities complement each other. But the public is ultimately responsible for living a safe and dignified life. The goal of Christian Democrats' social policy is to support communities and individuals for their own livelihood and good care. Social services therefore have a broad and fundamental role to play in the public sector. It is tasked with providing support and help when someone does not manage himself. This applies to both young and elderly, both families and individuals. We Christian Democrats are proposing several reforms that will allow people to trust that welfare works. In my speech, I would like to highlight in particular the proposals on homelessness and on child security. Mr President, I would like to Homelessness is a breeding ground for insecurity. Being homeless in a pandemic brings particular stress. When the call is to stay at home if you feel sick, what do you do if you're homeless? Today we know that addiction is a disease. It's not a weakness of personality. A person with an addiction disease needs qualified care and treatment, often for a long time. However, in order to benefit from treatment, a secure social situation can be crucial. That is why we Christian Democrats advocate the evidence-based method of housing first. The method starts from the fact that a dwelling is a human right – everyone needs a place to call their home. It has been used permanently in my hometown of Helsingborg since 2013 with very good results. Research in Sweden as well as in other countries shows that eight out of ten manage to keep their homes. These are amazing results. But too few municipalities in Sweden use the method. Instead, the so-called step model is often used, a method which, on the contrary, cements rather than solves the problem of homelessness. Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased that the Riksdag is now making an announcement of the Christian Democrats' proposal to set up an expert group to further develop the housing method first. It's incredibly pleasing. I regret, however, that not enough parties support our proposal that Bostad should first be the primary input in all municipalities. When science and proven experience show that a method helps people back into community, that method should be used. That should be a matter of course. Mr President, I would like to Every child has the right to a safe upbringing. For most children, parents and families are the security of life. But there are also parents who are unable to assume parental responsibility. When care fails and the family's network is not enough, municipalities' social services are tasked with ensuring that children who suffer from ill health are raised as safely as possible. When society assumes parental responsibility, it is also obliged to give the child special protection and support. Any change concerning children must be imbued with a child rights perspective in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats were one of the first parties to advocate that the Convention on the Rights of the Child should become Swedish law. Since 1 January this year it has finally become a reality. Now we have to ensure that the law gives children better protection and rights. It is not enough that the legal application of the Convention on the Rights of the Child has been strengthened. In order to comply with it, a child's rights perspective is needed, so that the child's best interests permeate all public work involving children directly or indirectly. This is important, not least in order to ensure that children's rights, security and security are not jeopardised when there are conflicts between children's and parents' interests. As many have said, it is too late for the little girl Esmeralda, who was called Little Heart. But for the sake of all other children, we need to work together to bring about change and to make it effective. The Parliament has appointed a group to work with a lex Little Heart. Nevertheless, we believe that it is important for the Christian Democrats to monitor compliance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law. Mr President, I would like to I would therefore like to ask the British Democrats to endorse our reservation 58. We propose that the Government follow up the implementation of the Convention in an appropriate manner and report annually to the Riksdag on the implementation of the Convention.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-670	Mr President, I would like to My colleague Juno Blom would have been here right now. But she has a meeting with two ministers in our fight for a national strategy against violence against children. It's a frighteningly topical subject. Yet it is only one of all the improvements that we need to make to our safety net. Sometimes the lives of both children and adults sway, and for some people it breaks. We can be subjected to violence and oppression of honour. We may suffer from addiction and homelessness. We can become parents who are unable to be parents, or we can be born as children of those parents. Tomorrow's Esmeraldo must, of course, be able to grow up to be strong and secure individuals. I believe that this is one of the most important tasks for this House. At the same time, there is so much more we can do. The first thing we need to do is to work preventively. Sometimes everyday life doesn't have to break if we prevent better. We need to prevent eviction. We need field work for schools, recreation centres and residential areas. We need to ensure that if parents have an addiction that can harm their children, parents should be able to be forced into care, even if they do not want it, for their children's sake. Then we need to ensure that help against addiction is quick and equal. If we develop an addiction, we must be able to get help quickly without a development assessment lasting several months. We need help from homelessness without anyone demanding that we be drug free from the beginning. You can't demand sobriety to get sober. That goes without saying. It is also very important that we strengthen support for relatives. For example, dependents also splash on those who are close. Many children in broken families take enormous responsibility for their parents and their siblings, Mr President. They put clean clothes and make sure everyone comes on time. Of course they need support. Children in families where one parent beats the other are not just relatives. They are also victims of crime and must be treated as such. Society must act in a much stronger way in order to protect relatives and, not least, children who are relatives. Of course, there is also a need for stronger support for children who are victims of abuse or oppression. Among the most weighty things we have to do as a society is to secure support for those children who cannot stay with their parents. We Liberals want IVO, the Inspection for Health and Care, to be given a particularly stronger mission to protect and follow the children placed today. I would therefore like to highlight in particular reservation 44 and request 13 on this. I'm in favour of the reservation. These children also need much better opportunities to pass school. We know that it is a key factor in how they will fare later in life. The person responsible for an HVB home shall be presumed to understand when a child placed is ill. Mr President, I would like to We Liberals also want the reporting obligation to be extended so that, in case of suspicion of maladministration, you should report directly to the IVO or the police what you think is perhaps happening. The children must be protected. We also want to give family homes stronger support. We want, not least, the best interests of the child and nothing else to determine whether the biological parents can regain custody again. The child's best interests are what should decide. Many bad fates can be prevented and mitigated. Everything I've been talking about in the last few minutes falls under the incredibly difficult and important task of social services. We therefore want to give social secretaries an ID. We want to extend their mandate. We want to give less administrative time but more time for the supportive and lifting work. We also want to create more sensible confidentiality legislation and a strengthened mandate to help those people who are currently at risk of falling through the meshes.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-685	Mr President, I would like to What's shaped me? What are my roots? Who am I? These are questions that arise during your lifetime directly or indirectly. For some, the answers are easy to find. You have them close to you. There's a way to find it. There's some papers to look for. But for others, it's all the harder. What do you do if history doesn't add up? What do you do if someone stole it? It is good that the government has started work to support people who are adopted to seek their roots and get talk support from professional staff. However, more resources will be needed. I hope that the government will remedy this in the future. But this is only help on an individual level. We also have a responsibility to work at system level, because we are all part of a system. Mr President, I would like to In 2018, Sweden's Television News noted suspected irregularities in adoptions from Chile during the 1970s and 1980s. Poor mothers had been moved to give up their children during what they thought was a temporary period, but in fact documents had been falsified and children adopted away to Sweden. Since the scandal was highlighted, the extent of it has increased explosively. A criminal investigation is currently underway in Chile, where over 600 cases of adoptions to Sweden are included. In Chile, however, a parliamentary inquiry has also been carried out to clarify what has happened. Many of the facts and testimonies that emerge from the parliamentary inquiry are, to say the least, appalling. Mr President, I would like to Among other things, the study states: It is a fact that hundreds of children in Chile have been snatched from their parents and have been removed, especially from abroad. It is a truth which cannot be contradicted and which has been confirmed by the testimony of all those who have been called to participate in the case. It can also be read: The disappearance of children was a reality for women throughout the country who were suffering from poverty or who lacked a supporting network. Different methods were used. The most common way was to get the mother to believe that the son or daughter had died, thus avoiding later complaints because the mother became convinced that she was faced with a fact that was irreversible and undisputed. The remains of the newborn were not handed over, including birth certificate, registration of birth or death certificate. Mr President, I would like to Many people are affected by this. Children who have been removed, parents who have lost their children and adoptive parents who have been misled. When data comes up on illegal activities involving adoptions in a country from which children were received, which was then adopted in Sweden, it is not possible to just turn a blind eye to that. The Left Party is concerned about the findings of the Chilean investigation. This raises many questions about how these adoptions have been handled in Sweden. We want an investigation into how Swedish authorities and adoption organisations have handled adoptions from Chile to Sweden. It's the least we can do. We have a responsibility. I would therefore like to add my voice to those adopted: No más silencio! We can't just be quiet. We must also act.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-696	Mr President, I would like to Many of the Christian Democrats' proposals to improve for patients also improve the working environment for health professionals. It can also be expressed in the opposite way: The proposals we make to reduce skills shortages and improve the working environment for healthcare workers also improve for patients and those who receive care. It is important to see that these parts are communication vessels. It's not either or, it's both and we have to do. Despite the fact that there have never been more nurses and doctors employed, there is a great shortage of staff because the population, as well as the needs, is increasing. The shortage mainly concerns specialist nurses, but also doctors, midwives, psychologists and many more. Both the National Board of Health and Welfare and the Inspectorate for Health and Welfare have repeatedly pointed out that the lack of competent personnel constitutes a patient safety risk. During the pandemic, no one has missed the importance of having biomedical analysts and cytodiagnoses so that we can carry out the tests that we need. In addition to increasing the number of training places, it is important that we ensure that even more of the experienced health professionals remain in the profession. The Health Care Association states that about 12 000 nurses have left the profession and are available elsewhere today. The health professionals here have a very large responsibility for the working environment so that staff who have a longer medical education can continue to work and be there in what they are trained for. Mr President, I would like to We have many well-trained and knowledgeable healthcare professionals. Many of them have professions that involve identification. This applies to nurses, pharmacists, hospital curators, physiotherapists, doctors, occupational therapists and many more. Legitimation is given when you have completed your education and can demonstrate that you have the necessary knowledge and competence. For a long time, legalisation of the profession in health care has been considered to be the most important proof of the competence and suitability of a professional. However, once the licence has been obtained, there is currently no regulation on how to ensure continuous training for the qualified professional. We Christian Democrats believe that there is a need for a statutory right to good quality training. Knowledge about, for example, nursing and new therapies is being developed, and certified personnel will continuously be given access to research and development. The opportunities for further training should also be included. This may involve the possibility of research in one's field or adding a specialist function in the profession. We propose from the Christian Democrats that the government be tasked with investigating the scope and structure of regulated quality training to which all qualified personnel are entitled. Already there are activities with both budget and time for quality training. But in many places it is completely missing and becomes something that is done if there is money left over. We believe that a statutory right to quality training is necessary to obtain good quality health care. It is probably also a measure that improves working conditions and gets more employees to work in the sector if you get a chance to follow up on research and development. Mr President, I would like to The bureaucratisation of health care has, with good reason, led to irritation among health care workers. At the same time, detailed regulation, in general and small, has affected all the elements. I think we are at all levels responsible for that detailed regulation. But detailed management and less opportunities to influence their work is not a success strategy. Surveys carried out in the framework of the study Effective care show that the scope of administrative requirements is significant and that there has been growth over the last ten years. The investigator points out that no one has a collective responsibility to assess whether the administrative tasks are reasonable and balanced in terms of work effort versus benefit. The government should therefore give such a mandate to the authorities in this area as a matter of urgency. It should also be included in the Riksdag to recognise the importance of reducing administrative requirements. The Christian Democrats also advocate a mapping and an action plan in each region to address the administrative burden on health professionals and their impact on the working environment. More staff have been employed in the regions, while we have a shortage of health professionals. Each region needs to review its activities and help ensure that it is primarily health professionals and close employees, such as medical secretaries, who are employed. It is in these areas that there must be an increase in health care professionals. I would like to ask the Christian Democrats to approve our Amendment No 3. It says: The government should urgently take a more comprehensive approach to the provision of healthcare skills. It's urgent. It's urgent.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-711	Mr President, I would like to This is an important and comprehensive exercise report dealing with skills provision and priorities in health care. I would like us to pay greater and more attention to skills issues. They're so fundamentally important. Only with a good supply of skills can we create a more accessible healthcare system. Only with a good supply of skills can we secure and develop the quality of healthcare. In short, competence issues are the basic tool for achieving the high ambitions we have for Swedish healthcare. The staff is the most important resource in healthcare. Regrettably, Mr President, the alarm reports of staff shortages have been coming down tight, and that has been happening for many years. The National Board of Health and Welfare notes that there is a continuing shortage in a number of healthcare professionals. Almost all 21 regions report a shortage of nurses, midwives, dentists and psychologists. Many also need to recruit more specialist doctors and, not least, specialist nurses. Of course, this shortage of staff has consequences. The deficiency means a tougher working environment for healthcare professionals, risks to patient safety, which Acko Ankarberg Johansson was involved in, and not least care queues. A broad range of work is needed in order to cope with the skills supply ahead and solve the current staff shortages. We need to use the staff properly. Staff need to be given the opportunity to devote more time to patients and less to administration. We need to improve the working environment so that employees want and are able to stay and do their important work in healthcare. And we need to get more people to go to the nursing professions. About a month ago, Mr President, the University Council sent out a press release that made me both happy and hopeful. The title was: Increased interest in health care and teacher education. The press release reported a record interest in health education. The number of applicants for nursing training this autumn has increased by 31 per cent. The already popular medical courses have become even more popular, with 26 percent more applicants. The search pressure for many other health professions has also increased. This applies, for example, to biomedical analysts. Despite all reports in the media during the Corona crisis about how tough the work situation is for many people working in healthcare, at the same time, a record number of people have sought a future in healthcare. It is pleasing and, moreover, hardly by chance. On the contrary, I think it is an expression of the fact that the Corona crisis has also made visible what extremely important jobs there are in healthcare and what exciting jobs healthcare offers. The fact that the search pressure for health care education is now higher is gratifying, but it is also important to intensify the work to make health professions more attractive over time. This is the only way to maintain interest in health education and ensure the long-term availability of skills. On the part of the Moderates, we have put forward a wide range of suggestions as to how this can be done. In concrete terms, it is about strengthening health care employees and, not least, improving their working environment. That is why, Mr President, I would like to support Amendment No 5. This reservation concerns, among other things, the fact that we want to develop health promotion work aimed at staff, but it is also about better monitoring and evaluating the working environment in healthcare. Mr President, I would like to Central to the health care staff to thrive and experience less negative stress is that you feel that you have the opportunity to influence your work situation and working hours. This is fairly well documented in research. What is also important is to reduce the administrative burden on health professionals. In this context, I would like to highlight the important announcement made last week by a united parliament in adopting a number of moderate proposals on digitisation. It was about making it easier to share data and put together a coherent record keeping in order to reduce the administrative burden on staff while at the same time strengthening patient safety. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to mention something about the second leg of the report, so to speak, namely what concerns priorities in health care. It is always easy to talk about what should be given higher priority, what one wants to prioritise. To be honest, it is much more difficult to talk about what one wants to prioritise down or even out of priority. It is always easy to speak for your sick mother and to especially highlight a patient group that you feel a little extra about and think it is important to develop care for. I myself, for example, am a type 1 diabetic, and for me it is easy to feel a particular commitment to the many good suggestions that we Moderates have put forward to develop diabetes care. I can be upset when I see how many type 2 diabetics are not detected by the healthcare system or how great regional differences there are in the availability of modern medical devices in the form of monitoring and modern insulin pumps, especially for us type 1 diabetics. However, if I try to raise my eyes somewhat and not just look at diabetes, which is close to my heart, my two examples here illustrate something that is all-embracing and that deals with challenges that apply not only to diabetes care but to health care in general. The fact that many go with undetected diabetes is an example of how Swedish healthcare needs to become better at early detection of people's diseases, preferably also better at early detection of risk factors for illness and ill health so that you can put in place preventive measures and prevent future disease. My second example, about differences in access across the country in terms of diabetes aids, is an example of the serious problem we have in Swedish healthcare with large and unjustified regional differences. Therefore, we Moderates have put forward several proposals and reservations about the need for more national guidelines and national health care programmes. Not least, we need better compliance with existing guidelines. Mr President, I would like to What care you receive should not be determined by where in the country you live, but of course by what need you have.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-731	Mr President, I would like to I shall now speak on behalf of Mr Per Ramhorn. I would like to begin by calling for our Amendment No 10 to be approved. Future jobs are found in welfare and not least in health care and long-term care. As the population grows and grows older and the need for well-being increases, many employees will reach the retirement age in the next few years. This means that more than 230 000 new employees will be needed in healthcare and care up to 2023. However, the number of first-hand applications for health and social care programmes has fallen sharply in a few decades. This is most worrying and must be taken very seriously. That is why it is extremely important to make work in health care more attractive so that more people want to see a future in one of the most important occupational groups in welfare. It should be borne in mind that good skills provision is just as much about attracting new people to training as the choice of existing staff to stay, but it is also about encouraging staff who have left their profession to want to return. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's municipalities and regions estimate that 130 000 nurses are missing by 2026. The nurses play an invaluable role in the functioning of our medical services. Many of them draw a very heavy load, not least right now. In the majority of Western European countries and in our neighbouring countries Norway and Denmark, nurses are a qualified healthcare professional group. In Denmark, assistant accreditation was already introduced in 2008. We believe that it is time that Sweden also introduced a licence for nurses. It is about improving patient safety and improving the quality of healthcare, and about making it more attractive to train as a nurse. It is also important that nurses have the opportunity to further train and specialise in paid working hours. Madam President, I would like One of the cornerstones of Swedish healthcare is the reduction of inequality, so that care can be given to everyone on equal terms. The national guidelines developed by the National Board of Health and Welfare are based on science and proven experience. These guidelines should be followed, but there are no explicit requirements. We believe that a clearer national regulation of the Swedish healthcare system is needed in order for it to become more equal. Making the national guidelines more binding would mean that they would all have to meet the same requirements. It should not be the case that one patient is assisted while another patient is not offered the same help because they live in different places and the principals interpret the rules and guidelines differently. Madam President, I would like Anyone who needs palliative care, i.e. care in the final stage of life, should be able to receive it from competent and well-trained staff regardless of their place of residence. Care at the end of life should be characterised by dignity, consideration and respect for the patient. The right to adequate pain treatment should be self-evident, as well as psychological, social, and spiritual or existential support for patients and loved ones. When we talk about palliative care, we often think of an old person. But care at the end of life covers all ages, including children. Unfortunately, children also suffer from very severe diseases. For those families who want their seriously ill children to be cared for at home, this should be catered for as far as possible. It is then important that there is access to palliative home care teams, regardless of where in the country you live. It is also important to ensure that other opportunities exist. Today, there is only one hospice with eight care places for severely ill and dying children throughout the country. Unfortunately, it is too little to cover the needs that exist. Children and parents should feel safe with the medical treatment but also receive psychological support and advice in the extremely difficult situation they find themselves in. In palliative care, it is possible to get so-called terminal sedation, which means that the patient is put to sleep. At present, there are large differences as this is used to varying degrees in different parts of the country. Today, there are no clear rules or clear legislation for when this is to be used, which does not guarantee equivalence. That is why we believe, Madam President, that there should be national guidelines for achieving equivalent palliative care throughout the country. These guidelines should also take greater account of patients' wishes.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-744	Madam President, I would like Today's debate is about skills provision and priorities – two parts of the care that we have been reminded of, not least now during the coronapdemine. The fact that we have trained staff to be available is a crucial factor for Swedish health care, not least when we are in the midst of a burning crisis. It is the staff that are bringing Swedish healthcare forward, and it is the staff that makes us maintain a quality of world class. To all of you, I would like to thank you very much! But it is not enough to say thank you, but we must do more. Madam President, I would like If we are to meet the challenges we face in terms of welfare development, recruitment of staff, an ageing population, and so on, we need to find new ways forward. In the report, the Center Party has put forward a number of proposals on, for example, organ donation, assisted reproduction and prescription rights. However, during my speech today, I intend to dwell on a green line that describes the way forward for the Center Party to meet the challenges that we face in Swedish healthcare, mainly linked to skills provision and the challenges of maternity care. All of us parties can probably agree that the goal we strive for is to create a health care that is safe, safe, accessible and of the best quality. But what separates us is the way forward. There are political forces that see more public monopolies or changed heads as solutions to most of the health problems. Some people want to ban private alternatives. Others want to make a huge reorganisation in which responsibility for care is shifted from region to state. But the more power and decision-making that is moved from people and employees, the more deaf I think the care will be to patients' needs. The Center Party therefore rejects the exclusion of private alternatives and rejects the transfer of responsibility for all care to a state level. Our idea is completely different. Patients should have more choice and influence, and employees should have more opportunity to participate in developing healthcare. It is the key to a safer care that is closer to people. Madam President, I would like Health care rests on employees who go to work every day to help other people. Without nurses, nurses, doctors and medical specialists, a health institution is little more than an empty shell. The fact that politicians provide healthcare with opportunities to offer employees opportunities and a developing working environment that makes them want a long career in healthcare is a key to the health care function. An important part of this is that all health professionals have a real influence over their own workplace. It is both about creating a working environment that means that health professionals are not forced to run continuously between patients and about giving employees the opportunity to use their skills to the full. Within five years, the need for new employees in healthcare is expected to reach nearly a quarter of a million people as a result of retirement and increased demand for care as more and more people live longer. This will place severe demands on health care, which at the same time has difficulty recruiting staff. Last year I visited Övertorneå. Among other things, I visited the health centre to be inspired and learn from their work. The reason I chose to go to Övertorneå is that they have found a new way to use the employees' skills, and that impresses me greatly. As part of solving the difficult equation of meeting the challenges of an ageing population and difficulties in recruiting staff, Region Norrbotten is investing in a new professional role, namely advanced clinical nurse. These are the nurses who mainly staff the health centre in Övertorneå. The initiative has contributed to the health centre, unlike many others, having no shortage of doctors or nurses. The advanced clinical nurses have extended powers to diagnose and treat patients. They may, for example, prescribe X-rays, sampling and make assessments of undiagnosed patients – in other words, things that previously only doctors were allowed to do. The path that Övertorneå has chosen I would have liked to see in more parts of the country. Region Norrbotten has dared to create new roads, and that is exactly what we must do and follow. We need to create ways for both nurses and nurses to be able to work on top of their skills so that they can develop and not just feel that they are a cog in the big care machine. We know that specialist nurses are a resource in healthcare that should be given more space and qualified tasks. This is why the Center Party wants to see more career paths, more prescription rights and paid training. During the coronapndemine, elderly care has gained a great deal of focus, and rightly so. We see that care for the elderly is indeed an area that we must start to prioritise. Not least, we must invest in raising the status in order for more people to want to work there. Nurses are the largest occupational group in Sweden, and they form part of the backbone of care. The care of the elderly is not least dependent on nurses. If long-term care is to work, more people need to seek employment, and more people need to want to stay. For that to happen, a number of improvements are needed. For example, we want to standardise training, create better working conditions and invest in paid specialist training for nurses as well. More people will have an opportunity to develop, climb their careers and raise their wages. This is above all a question of skills provision, but it is also a gender issue that stems from how society values women's work. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to talk about another priority that we must make, namely investing in and developing maternity care. The Swedish maternal and infant mortality rate is one of the lowest in the world. Child birth injuries are rare, and the vast majority of babies are born healthy. However, maternity care is nevertheless fraught with problems. In rural areas, not least in northern Sweden, it is about the closure of maternity clinics and more women getting far to the nearest BB. On the contrary, in other places a high pressure on childbirth units, along with a lack of midwives, is the major problem and leads both to an unreasonable work situation for midwives and to anxiety among prospective parents. This development the Center Party wants to reverse. Instead, security and empowerment will increase, and maternity care will be closer to women through coherent care with more midwife-led clinics that complement the larger hospitals. Here we in the Center Party want Sweden to look at Norway and how they have organized their maternity care. If they can do it, we can do it! The green line through the Center Party's policy for Swedish welfare is thus about us wanting to move power to the patient and staff, open up new thinking and create safe and accessible care throughout the country. Of course, I agree with all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party, but for time to come, I only agree to reservation 24.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-765	Madam President, I would like From the green lines, I now thought that we should move on to the red lines. First of all, I would like to thank all of you in health care who are saving lives, comforting and standing tall under the unreasonable workload that you have and which, unfortunately, you are not quite seeing the end of yet. You can applaud from the balconies or from the farm, but the obvious thanks to you must be good pay, good working hours and good working environment. These are also the demands of the profession. In order to train more people and hire more people, we need to invest in welfare, in health care, simply. Madam President, I would like Throughout the pandemic there is one thing that has been crystal clear, and that is that public health care carries us and saves lives. It's not the market – we've seen it – but it's them who work the 12-hour passes. We from the Left Party have entered with a budget that reinforces and gives a strong push to get more specialist nurses, more nurses and more nurses. Those resources are needed. In this speech, I would particularly like to address those who work very hard at Stockholm Emergency Hospital, where over a thousand people were also given notice last year. Those who work there every day save lives. There's a paradox in that. Madam President, I would like Every year around 60 000 people in Sweden suffer from cancer. Survival has increased significantly in all socio-economic groups over the last 20 years, but there is still a large gap between the different groups. If survival had been as high for everyone as it is in the group with the most survivors, we would have saved some 3,000 lives. High-skilled people have access to measures, including diagnostics and other treatments, to a greater extent than those with lower levels of education. It also turns out that high-skilled people are given more time for their questions and wishes, despite the fact that people with lower education are in greater need of such support. It is about class and a very big issue in health care: inequality, Madam President. We want national measurable targets to be set for reducing socio-economic disparities in cancer care. We also want national efforts to equalise regional inequalities to be carried out. Although there are guidelines and so on, the cancer care system is very different depending on where in the country you live. We can't have that. We therefore want to give the appropriate authority the task of studying, at two-year intervals, the work of the regions against cancer in terms of equality, so that it can be followed whether it gets better or worse. Madam President, I would like A variety of new drugs and treatments are being developed for different forms of cancer. They are very accurate and effective. But they're expensive. Most medicines are made by large global companies that are able to take out quite large profits for them. Many efforts need to be made to ensure that public funds do not run out in excess profits for companies. It's very important. That's a difficult question. Madam President, I would like It will also be a difficult issue for the regions. It is also an ethical issue. Which people with a certain diagnosis should be allowed to take part in expensive efforts but not others? Which people who have the same diagnosis but live in different regions should receive the best care? Does it look the same throughout Sweden? It doesn't. Should only people with good finances receive the best treatment, since they can pay for themselves? The medical journal reported on January 25, 2019 about private treatments that cost 70 000 SEK. These are private options, which exclude everyone with thin wallets. But it will be possible to get those treatments in the regions. Madam President, I would like The economic conditions are very different in the different regions. It affects people with cancer. Expensive drugs are important for people in all regions. But it will be an extra high threshold for cancer patients in regions with higher structural costs. We want to look at the conditions for state aid. It should be examined how it can be designed most effectively. We want the state to be able to develop it so that the regions can get their treatment methods and medicines from a state fund. We think it's the only way if this doesn't collapse. Madam President, I would like Compared to adults, not many children get cancer. That's 300 a year. As with all groups of sufferers, the care of children has also progressed, and more and more children are surviving. However, as in the rest of the care, it is the staff and the supply of skills that are at the centre here too. The Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation believes that psychosocial support for children with cancer and their families is neglected and unequal. According to the Foundation's surveys, the families concerned rank the highest rate of increased psychosocial support and care. It is about the time during the treatment but also the time after the treatment. The entire chain of care for cancer sufferers is long and stressful, even for relatives. It is like going through purgatory, Madam President. How do you deal with anxiety and uncertainty? The time when you enter adult life is also a big step for everyone involved. When you are 18 years old, you should suddenly take care of your treatment and health care contacts while you are going to get out into adulthood, get a job and relationships. Disparities in the regions in the field of rehabilitation and psychosocial assistance need to be addressed. It looks very different. We want an appropriate authority to review the conditions of the regions for psychological and emotional support for children and young people who are undergoing and have undergone cancer treatment. Today, there are over 10,000 people who have had cancer as a child. The group is getting bigger and bigger. And that's a joy; the children survive. There is also greater knowledge about rehabilitation for children, young people and young adults. The organisation Ung Cancer wonders why the knowledge and instructions that exist are not implemented in the various care programs. The regions must work with rehabilitation for children and young people who have undergone cancer treatment. That should be a matter of course. The support to the relatives also needs to be clear. Responsibility for support to relatives of cancer victims should be formalised more strongly in the regions. Increased efforts are needed for equal cancer care. And the interaction between the six regional cancer centres needs to be further strengthened. Cancer affects many. Survival is high. And we have to make sure it gets even higher. Madam President, I would like I hope I told you I'm highlighting reservation 26.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-787	Madam President, I would like It is uplifting to listen to Karin Rågsjö. She is a person who, in most debates, gives a rather ideological perspective. I think it is good, not because I like what I hear, but because it is good that the difference between the parties is made clear and that we get a little tense in the debate in this House. Karin Rågsjö should have all the credit for that. But what I am concerned about in substance is that Karin Rågsjö is allergic to all private alternatives. On the other hand, I am allergic to all the queues and lack of quality. But Karin Rågsjö's cape is always aimed at private alternatives and not at the basic problems we have in Swedish health care. Insurance solutions, that people can buy private solutions and so on, were mentioned. They're symptoms of a lack of availability. Then that's what we're going to fix. But Karin Rågsjö focuses on that someone has the opportunity to buy a treatment with private funds. On the other hand, I was pleased with much of what Karin Rågsjö said regarding the need to develop cancer care and to deal with the great inequalities that exist. The Moderates have pushed for a new and updated national cancer strategy. I want to get back to private care. Unfortunately, we now see that because of the Corona crisis we have a health debt that is growing rapidly. At this point, I believe that about 50 000 operations have been cancelled. Much other planned care, such as follow-up calls, checks and so on, is cancelled. Here I see private care and private actors as a large and important resource to be able to procure care and quickly graze the care queues. Are Karin Rågsjö and the Left Party prepared to use the private companies to address the health debt?
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-793	Madam President, I would like It's nice that Johan Hultberg this late evening says that he appreciates my little appearances here in the speaker's chair. Johan Hultberg asks a lot of questions. As far as private businesses are concerned, it may not be those we are opposed to, but it is the big profits and what is happening to the big companies. They're gonna be a limited liability company, aren't they? That's easy to focus on profit. We can see this in different ways, even during this pandemic, when we look at, for example, Stockholm and retirement homes. Madam President, I would like What should govern health care? It's the needs that are extremely important, isn't it? Seven throws should go first in all contexts. If you are in favour of systems of private insurance and solutions where it is possible to buy your cancer treatment, you end up on a sliding scale. The one who has the thin wallet never gets into that gang but comes last. We can see that, too. Freedom of choice can be great. For the patients, it's good. They're the ones who have to choose. But in some cities, such as Stockholm, it is the healthcare companies that decide, for example, where to establish themselves. It's about customer data and so on. Then it'll be wrong. We want equal care. When you look at what it looks like when it comes to cancer treatments, you can see how incredible it looks. Of course, it is quite unlikely that so many are so far behind in comparison with others that 3,000 die a year because they do not receive the best cancer treatment. It is simply because they belong to the working class and have a thin wallet. You can see that. So we are not against the private option. We are against the dividend, which is totally unreasonable.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-799	Madam President, I would like I really believe that Swedish healthcare is well served by a variety of performers and actors. I think competition is a good thing. I believe that it drives quality development, that it provides a greater choice and that freedom of choice is good for patients but also for staff. My point with regard to the emergence of private insurance solutions is that it is about the failure of publicly funded care. We have major accessibility problems, and this has led to the emergence of this market. I therefore think that it is the lack of accessibility that we should address. Karin Rågsjö has a point in the fact that the lack of accessibility affects those hardest who are unable to buy private solutions. The most important thing, therefore, is how we can tackle the lack of accessibility. Karin Rågsjö and the Left Party often see the private actors as a problem here. I see them as an important asset for improving accessibility. Thanks to private actors, we have more accessible care. We're developing care. There are many private actors who are not least involved in developing digital healthcare, which is important in the future. I think we have all really realised the importance and need of it during the pandemic. I would like to repeat my question to Karin Rågsjö. Do the Left Party and Karin Rågsjö see that the private actors can be an important part of the solution to the enormous health debt that is now being built up because of the coronan? Does the Left Party see that private carers are needed?
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-804	Madam President, I would like For example, in the region I work in, live in, live in and come from, i.e. Stockholm, you can think a little when you look at the strained public health care. There have been 1 000 redundancies. They have still not received any courtesy from the current majority in terms of whether or not they get their jobs back. In such a situation, i.e. when you see healthcare shrinking in the public sector, you can think about what to do with private care. As I said, we are not against private health care in itself, but we are against profit withdrawal. You can look at what has now happened in care for the elderly. I think that's super interesting. What can you do for the elderly? Now we are not talking about care for the elderly. Yeah, it's about the staff. In the private sector, fewer people are employed with full-time and permanent jobs. What will govern health care? I think it has become more and more an issue of accessibility. Care must also not become a kind of shop around, as it has become, for example, in online medicine. It is interesting that an actor – I shall not mention it by name, Madam President, because it is not to be done in this Chamber – has asked the regions whether they cannot go in and test out in all the regions. The regions were not allowed to do so. I think it was about them being skinned on their money. You can think about it. One can also think about private actors who, in the middle of the coronan, crack up their health centres at Östermalm or Norrmalm in Stockholm, where the health situation is very good, instead of in Kista, Rinkeby, Farsta and so on. One can think about who should be in charge of health care. Maybe it should be politicians. I think that a lot of politicians are now sitting on the sidelines and letting the market take care of some of the care. I do not want it as in the United States, for example, but I want a health care system where everyone has access to the best.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-810	Madam President, I would like I'm going to try to give a brief overview of some of the Liberal health care proposals and I'm going to focus on employees, priorities and death. Let me start with the employees. In Liberals Sweden, employees must have time for patients and time to develop. Of course they should have a safe workplace. Medical care stands and falls with this. None of our other proposals work if the employees are not happy, want to stay and have enough colleagues. As an example, we in the Liberals have worked for over 40 years for a house doctor reform, with a short break in the 1990s when we thought we had succeeded. Then came the Social Democrats after a year and tore up the house doctor's law. Now it is finally time for a permanent improvement. But it will only succeed if the house doctors get a sustainable working day and more colleagues. There's no other way. I am pleased that we have agreed with the government on national coordination in order to obtain long-term skills in healthcare, get more people to choose to become a family doctor and get more people to be able to specialise and become a specialist nurse on pay. We must also focus on reducing bureaucracy, securing infrastructure and increasing the levels of freedom in health care for the people who work there. Detail controls need to be removed. Let me turn to the priorities. We need to prioritise more – prioritise, prioritise down and prioritise away. We Liberals are proposing, Madam President, a study that will deepen and clarify the health care priority platform. We believe that people themselves may have to take responsibility for some things. On the other hand, if we suffer severe or chronic diseases, we need strengthened care compared to what we have today. I am pleased that cancer care and rehabilitation are being strengthened within the framework of the January agreement. I believe that we also need to strengthen, not least, geriatrics and the care of rare diagnoses. There is much that needs to be done. Madam President, I would like I also believe that we need to give priority to death. First of all, priority must be given to ensuring that it does not come too early. This is done, of course, through preventive health care and good care when we fall ill, but also by ensuring that blood donation, which saves lives, does not have a chronological upper limit. You have to be able to give blood as long as you're suitable as a donor. And if our lives can be saved by an organ donation, then the possibility of organ donation needs to be far better than it is today, Madam President. Then death finally comes. Each tree will fall down once. I would like to emphasise here in particular that we Liberals are calling for a national review of health care and care in the final stage of life. Madam President, I would therefore like to support our Amendment No 27 in paragraph 13 which deals with this very subject. We believe that it is absolutely necessary to strengthen support for the dying person, for his relatives and for his close and caring staff. Even the last days should be worth living. Sometimes, however, even the best palliative care does not help. Sometimes even palliative sedation does not help, Madam President. Then we liberals want my body still to be mine, and my life will still be mine. We want to see a parliamentary inquiry into the self-chosen end of life, not to shorten life, but to give legal the opportunity to shorten a painfully dying one. We believe that with our proposals people from what is already good health care will come a little closer to an even better care, where we have security, self-determination and freedom through our lives in health, disease, curative health care and soothing health care until the last day.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-821	Madam President, I would like I may be the last speaker of the day. This is an extremely broad and wide area of exercise, so I suspect, Madam President, that in general I could talk about all kinds of health issues. However, I will not do that. I am going to talk today in particular about skills and staff issues. However, there are many issues in this motion report that are of great importance. I think we need to work much more on skills and staff issues. This is partly about remedying the care debt that is now being built up with cancelled operations in the tracks of covid-19. It is also about meeting the challenges of healthcare in the long term. We are facing major retirements and also demographic changes that will greatly increase healthcare needs in Sweden. In order to deal with this, there will be tougher and tougher demands on healthcare organisations in Sweden. We need to have more employees in healthcare in the coming years, not fewer. This is one of the biggest challenges we have. I have a past as a county council politician. When I've been active like that, I haven't always loved the state. I've thought the government has been tricky. The state has devoted itself to detailed decision-making. The state has at all devoted itself to coming up with new things without really understanding the challenges that care sometimes faces out on the floor and in the operations. I think the government needs to think about that. But there is one area in which I think the state has a great responsibility and should do more. It is about ensuring that more people who can work in health care are educated. There the state has the clear primary responsibility. I think that the government, together with the cooperation parties in recent years, has produced a number of good proposals for measures that point in the right direction. A great deal more resources are invested in enabling more people to train as specialist nurses. More resources are also being invested in enabling existing specialist nurses to develop further, skills development and career development. In proposals and proposals relating to the development and transition to good and close care, you can see that it is SEK 3 billion that is invested in clean personnel issues, which I think is absolutely necessary. I also think that the proposal that has been made to protect the title of nurse is wise, because it is important to remember that care is dependent on more professions than just doctors. It is about nurses and nurses, about a wide range of professional groups that are needed in healthcare for that organisation to function. And I think we need to have more national control of what a nurse is and ensure it properly throughout the country. We also need to work with knowledge management. There are government knowledge management instruments, but also SKR has developed an entirely new knowledge management instrument that I have high hopes for. Mr Hultberg stood here in the speaker's chair a moment ago and said that we should be sure that it should not matter where in the country you live in order to get the best cancer care. That is a statement that I fully agree with. I believe that knowledge management is an important instrument for improving health care. I would just like to add to Mr Hultberg's comment that it should not matter where you live in the country. I mean that it should not even matter what kind of social group you belong to, because the big challenge in cancer care is not actually where you live in the country but what kind of social group you belong to. The mortality of the socially less privileged is twice as high as that of other groups in our country. Mortality is higher than it due to geographical differences. This is worth remembering. I therefore complement Mr Hultberg's statement that it should not matter where in the country you live with the fact that it should not matter what class you belong to either. Madam President, I would like Even though the government is increasing its efforts, employers, both private and public, must also be much better than they are today. Today, many people are trained as health professionals, but many stop because they face an unreasonable working environment. There, both private and public employers sin in a way that is a little sad. Madam President, I would like I intend to spend a few seconds of my speech telling you a little anecdote that comes from the heart. As a county councillor, I visited the Södersjukhus Hospital, which is one kilometer from my home on Södermalm, for the specific reason that the Söderjukhus Hospital has the country's longest waiting times to its emergency department – it is strange that in such a rich region as Stockholm you actually have the country's longest waiting times. There I met the nurse Hanna. She heard rumors that it was a county council on a visit to Södersjukhus. She chased me right and then exclaimed in tirades that I cannot reproduce because of the order of the House. She was not happy and told me where the cabinet would stand, and I thought it was very difficult in general. But after these tirades the nurse Hanna wondered why she should stay and work at the South Hospital at all. She told me that county council-funded activities that were part of the care elections in Stockholm had offered her several thousand SEK more in salary each month and told her that she would also not have to work evenings and weekends. Then my first call to the employer, in this case my own home region Region Stockholm, is to ensure that those who have the heaviest, the most dangerous and the most tedious jobs get the best paid. You shouldn't be paid more for just working daytime. You should be paid more for working in an intensive care or emergency ward in a hospital. But this is an issue that the employers in Stockholm should resolve, Madam President. Another issue is that employers, such as Region Stockholm, should assume their educational responsibilities. They are responsible for AT-blocks and ST-blocks and such things, and I can see that Stockholm is laying down a level of education that corresponds to half of its needs. Otherwise, you are dependent on the rest of the country to handle the training of future doctors in Stockholm. I think that is unreasonable, Madam President. The third issue relates to the fact that we are currently going through a pandemic. Right now, health care workers are working hard in health care. It is not reasonable in any way whatsoever that 109 doctors and 157 nurses working at Karolinska Hospital are on notice at the moment, while at the same time working to save lives.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-834	Madam President, I would like It is good to hear when Mrs Dag Larsson talks about skills provision. We have many common areas. The honourable Member mentioned that we need to increase education and that it is a state responsibility. I agree with that. But the problem is that we do not even know who is employed in health care. We don't know how many specialist nurses and what skills they have, who are doctors and what specialties they have and how many are physiotherapists and occupational therapists. Every time we assess the need, most recently in the inquiry on specialist nurses, we have to call around and ask the question and get an approximate answer. I think that we should also add to the task of the state simply to keep track of who it is as health workers, so that we can better assess the needs ahead. Today we're guessing, of course, for good reason. It is experienced staff who assess the needs, but we should know. Is it something for which the honourable Member himself would find it interesting that the state took responsibility? My second question concerns what the Christian Democrats have specifically proposed. If you get a licence, which is a high requirement for you to be able to work in health care, should you not be guaranteed further education and training at work? Today you're not. I can even imagine that we are legislating this. How does Mrs Dag Larsson view it?
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-837	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Acko Ankarberg Johansson, for the questions, which I think are urgent! I have given a lot of thought to the first question, because it is clear that we must have knowledge of who we have in the health organisation. I listened the other day to Åsa Kullgren when she spoke about her investigation about care during crisis and war. She has suggestions that are interesting and that I think are worth considering. One is about building up registers of people who have ID jobs. I think we need it in the future. I also believe that it is possible to have good cooperation with SKR and the regions on such issues. I can certainly see that we need more cooperation in this area. I agree with the reasoning on continuing training, which I also mentioned in my speech. Nevertheless, the primary requirement must be for employers, whether private or public, to ensure that employees receive training. If they do not, I think it is good to think about other measures. But the reasonable thing should be for employers to assume their responsibilities.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-841	Madam President, I would like When it comes to the first question of keeping track of who works, it sounds like we should be able to find a way forward. To simply state that we guess each time does not feel good, but we should know who is working and what skills they have so that we can also assess the need for education better ahead. As far as the responsibility of employers is concerned, I fully agree that this is the way it should be. When the Medical Association made a survey two years ago – it may be out of date now – 6 out of 21 regions had a money in the health election system for the health centres for further training. The others obviously hoped that they would still have money for further training, but in order to afford further training, they would have to cut back on all other activities. It is indeed a political question of how we give priority to continuing training. If employers do not do so on their own, I think that we should focus on linking the identification to the employer who employs qualified staff ensuring that the staff are continuously trained of good quality. And when I say continuing education, I do not mean those inspirational lectures where you get a red or green hat, but it should be about the quality and content of the profession. Should we not, however, be able to better manage the training of qualified staff?
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-845	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the questions, Acko Ankarberg Johansson! I have met a lot of private health care providers who are active in Stockholm and think that many of them actively contribute to quality development in healthcare. But I also think that, as a regional politician, demands should be made in the compensation system and in procurement procedures to ensure that staff can participate in the training programmes. Here there is much more to learn and better action to be taken for those who are employers, and it is the elected regional politicians in the region who should take this responsibility.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-848	Madam President, I would like Dag Larsson represents a government party that has for a long time pushed the issue of removing the shared tours for care workers, but it is still not done. I am interested in this because my party is pushing the same question: to remove the involuntary shared tours because these restrict too much on private and family life. When, Dag Larsson, will the shared tours disappear?
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-850	Madam President, I would like First you have to think about who is the employer, because it is the employer who should set the schedule. I myself, as a regional politician together with colleagues, have pushed for the removal of the shared tours. It is good if the state supports a job to get rid of shared tours in health care, but I think that the work must be finally done by each respective employer in the region and in the hospitals.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-852	Madam President, I would like As I said, Mr Larsson belongs to a party that has been running this issue for about 20 years, but it is still not done. What does Dag Larsson want to say to the nurses who walk on their knees and who in this crisis have and will have it very tough? What does Dag Larsson have to say to those who will be able to continue going to their jobs? When will they get as good working hours as in other Nordic countries? In no other Nordic country are nurses working in the way they do in Sweden. My question to Dag Larsson remains.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-854	Madam President, I would like I worked on shared times as a mental nurse myself at one time, and it was totally unreasonable working hours. I return to the answer I gave to Mr Utterstedt in my previous reply: this is a matter for employers and regions to deal with. I myself worked with colleagues on this issue in the Stockholm region where I was active. We pushed for nurses to get full-time jobs, if they wish, to get sensible working hours, to avoid sharing working hours and to have shorter working hours at night. However, the question should be put in the respective regional parliaments, preferably to my colleagues. I am convinced that Mr Utterstedt will receive the same reply from my Socialist colleagues that they are pushing on this issue as best they can. My party does not have the power everywhere, but 70% of the country's population is governed locally by other parties, which have the power over, among other things, what working hours look like in our country.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-857	Madam President, I would like Dag Larsson is extremely clear about one thing, and that is what constituency he represents. There is no doubt that he represents Stockholm. Dag Larsson constantly returns to her experiences from Stockholm. This speech was also very much about Stockholm. I may think that when we have a debate on Swedish health care and Dag Larsson represents the largest government party, it would have been interesting to hear something about what the largest government party wants with Swedish health care and what concrete reforms the Social Democrats want to launch to develop Swedish health care. But most observations were now made about Stockholm policy and what should be done by the employer Region Stockholm. I naturally share the view that it is important that we in the Swedish Parliament recognise what we have the power and authority over and what we best leave to our colleagues in Sweden's 21 regions to decide on. It is good if we have a common understanding that we often deal with too much detailed regulation on the part of the state, and Dag Larsson's experience as a long-standing regional politician is of course valuable. I hope that Dag Larsson will take with her party that you can try to phase out some of the very specialised state grants. We Moderates think that we should work more with general government grants and give more power and influence to the regional representatives, who probably know best how health care should be conducted in Stockholm, for example. I as a resident would not in my humility want to review Stockholm's care and say how it should be designed in detail here. In terms of inequality, prevention is important. What are the Social Democrats doing to prevent and reduce the large differences in health linked to socio-economic factors?
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-862	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Hultberg. Let me take the last question first. When the Social Democrats led the SKR during the last term of office, we started, in good cooperation with the Moderates and other parties, the work Strategy for Health. It is about precisely working preventively and mobilising the entire health organisation in order to reduce future health costs. I believe that this is absolutely essential for health care to have reasonable working conditions in the future. Most of this work needs to be done at regional and local level. The state should allocate state subsidies to this work, but it is doctors, nurses and gymnastics teachers who should be in the front line and work preventively to improve people's health. Yes, I am a Stockholmer, with pride and joy. I think Stockholm is an amazing city, and I am happy to show around the honourable Member Hultberg in Stockholm so that he has the opportunity to enjoy this fantastic city. I often bark at Stockholm, but I do it with love. I am impressed by health care in other parts of the country and could talk about it for a long time. A healthcare organisation that works perfectly well is Region Halland. It is led by Moderates, managed excellently and makes fantastic contributions to health care in Halland. However, when it comes to how we are going to get people to stay in healthcare, it is probably not so worthwhile that Mr Hultberg and I stand here and talk about working time schedules, but I think that the question must be put to the respective regional management – and I am deeply critical of how the Stockholm regional management handles its employer responsibility.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-868	Madam President, I would like Dag Larsson has every reason to feel proud of his city. Stockholm is an amazingly beautiful capital city that all Swedes can take pride in. But sometimes, as a representative of the country, I can feel a certain despair about how Stockholm-fixed much of the debate is and that the debate is constantly taking its starting point in Stockholm. Earlier today we had a Question Time with the Minister, and then Minister Bolund mentioned that the spread of infection in Sweden has gone down. In Stockholm it may have, but for example in Västra Götaland, which I represent, we now see a rapid increase in the number of cases. It worries me a little that Stockholm is often allowed to picture what it looks like throughout Sweden. As far as prevention is concerned, I really am calling for more active work from the government. I am proud that the Moderates were the first party to create a coherent prevention movement. If we are to be able to finance welfare and our health care in the long term, we need to prioritise prevention much more in order to prevent people from developing disease and ill health, which we know generates large costs. With regard to cancer in particular, the WHO has said that about 30 percent of all cancers would be preventable by lifestyle changes. Then it is important that we do more and not make it as easy for us as Dag Larsson by saying that it gets sports teachers and dieticians in the care loose. I believe that we need to take a concerted national approach and dare to look at what we can do more to prevent disease and promote healthy living conditions.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-872	Madam President, I would like I would like to correct Mr Hultberg. I am opposed to it, but I am still forced to do it because the work on a health strategy that SKR is doing is not just about gymnastics teachers and other things, as I might have said. It is a question of mobilising the whole region sector and the whole local government sector. It's about mobilizing the school, old-age care and psychiatry. It is a wide range of professions that work together on the basis of the conditions of each local municipality or neighbourhood to improve and increase public health. I am very pleased that there is a broad political consensus on this within SKR. I think that is where the practical work is best carried out. Then, from the state level, we will be on the track and support the work. I think this is important. I was a little inspired. I take it to heart that I only talk about Stockholm all the time, so I'll mention two other regions. I have mentioned the moderate-led Halland region, which I think is well-managed. Now maybe some party colleagues in Halland will yell at me for saying so, but I think the health care system there is well managed. I also think Norrbotten's breast cancer care deserves praise. It belongs to the absolute best in all of Sweden, even though they do not have a university hospital. I think the rest of Sweden should study what Norrbotten is doing right when it comes to breast cancer care. I think Hultberg has a point. I can also feel a frustration sometimes when the whole health care debate is about what is happening in Stockholm. I can contribute to this myself, but on the other hand I am a Stockholmer. One can discuss, for example, maternity care in Sweden and the enormous problems that maternity care has had in Stockholm. It is truly disastrous, in fact, with a lack of birthplaces and future mothers and fathers who have seen their new baby born in the parking lot outside Huddinge Hospital. It's not reasonable. It's a scandal. But that is not how the maternity care system looks all over Sweden. In many parts of the country, maternity care works just fine. I have met many regional politicians who are in despair when evening newspapers' handbills are completely dominated by the mismanagement of maternity care in Stockholm, because that is not how it looks in the rest of Sweden.
i-e9b061d95d78b1fb-903	Military cooperation with Finland and a Swedish NATO option
