i-fc33ce39966def79-8	Mr President, I would like to So we are here on 25 November and are going to decide on the framework for next year's budget. We will do so at a time when the spread of the disease has taken off again. Of course, many experience fatigue because of this. It's a trying time. This year has been a trying time, first and foremost on a human level. Many again feel anxious. Many have mourned their loved ones. Others are currently between life and death. It is a trying time for the employees in the care. Many of them felt that they could push out after the summer and get some recovery. But now they are back in a very, very tough situation in intensive care departments and other departments around Sweden's hospitals to save lives. It is also a trying time for many of the country's entrepreneurs, especially those entrepreneurs who have had a very tough time throughout this year. It is about those who work in contact professions where you meet people and where demand has now dramatically decreased. It is a trying time, Mr President, and I think we have to wait for this pandemic to last for a long time. The effects of it will continue even further. But even with the best scenario, if we get a vaccine in place at the beginning of next year, it will take time for life to return to normal. It's the best scenario. Let's hope so! However, it will require a lot of us here in the Swedish parliament and from the government. The worst scenario, which we would rather not think about but which we as political leaders must also plan for, is that it may take even longer before everything works with the vaccine. Then we will have to live with the pandemic and its effects even longer. Mr President, I would like to The budget that is likely to win here today does not take up what we are now seeing. It doesn't take height for a second wave. It does not take height for an emergency preparedness for next year and the year after that. It worries me. This budget, which will probably win, is a budget that wants to restart the Swedish economy completely without the focus on the need for more emergency measures. In the Moderates' budget, we took the height of what is now happening, namely that the spread of infection could take off again and that we will have to continue to support Swedish jobs so that they do not disappear during the crisis. I would like to stay a few more minutes on this, Mr President. The pandemic will continue, and I am surprised, as I said, that the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals have not taken the height of what we now see. I am also very surprised and concerned that it was months before anything happened, even though we were all very quick in the spring to present crisis packages to support jobs, with short-term lay-offs and with conversion support. Of course, a lot of companies are doing well, not two talk about it, but now that everything is taking off again, it's extremely tough in those industries that are more or less experiencing a business ban, and many employees are worried. Why, then, has time not been spent on improving the support that many of Sweden's companies will need for quite a long time to come? Mr President, I would like to During the pandemic, other social problems have not ceased. Apart from the fact that we have just to resolve the crisis together and understand that this will last a long time, there are two other major societal problems that I would like to highlight in this debate and on which our budget motion focuses. One is to push back crime. The second is about breaking unemployment. Unfortunately, Sweden is becoming poorer and poorer in security. Unfortunately, the shootings have not stopped during the pandemic. It is not that the rapes have disappeared, and the robberies have not become fewer. Unfortunately, it is also not a time when domestic violence has diminished. On the contrary, this year has been a dark time for many, especially women who live with men who oppress and strike. This is a time when we all together have to do everything we can to push back crime. It is possible to reverse developments, as I have said in this House many times before. It is possible to reverse the trend with a legal policy that not only adjusts legislation but takes a step forward and is clear against the gang criminals and those who commit crimes. Look at Denmark – that's where you've done it. We can do it in Sweden. However, resources are needed for the entire judicial authorities, the resources needed. This, too, does not succeed in resolving the four parties that work together. Several of the authorities have had less than they required and needed. We Moderates want to raise the level of ambition for, for example, the police and ensure that police training is paid for. We want to get retired police officers back on the job so that they can help solve crime. Criminality can be broken and squeezed back, Mr President, if you have a clear legal policy and ensure that these authorities get the money needed to solve the problem. I am absolutely convinced that progress can be reversed. Unemployment is the third thing I want to highlight, and it is the one that worries me most. It's about people who right now don't have a job to go to. For many people it's about a long time when you haven't had a job to go to. Right now we are breaking record after record in Sweden, record that we should not be proud of. One such record is that we have never seen as many long-term unemployed in Sweden as now. Then maybe someone thinks it's because of the pandemic. No, Mr President, it does not. Of course, unemployment is increasing in a deep recession. The only problem is that we had a high unemployment rate when we entered the crisis. From October 2014 to February this year, Sweden was the only country in the EU where unemployment actually did not decrease but increased. It is an under-grade and can only be seen as a failure that, in the good years of economic prosperity, the structurally important reforms were not achieved in order for more people to enter the Swedish labour market. The people who today are long-term unemployed and have been unemployed for two or three years are experiencing incredible hopelessness and do not see the light in the tunnel. So what are the Moderates doing in our budget about unemployment? We do two very important things. First of all, it's about making it more profitable to work. We have a tax reduction that is permanent and, as we know, leads to increased employment. We have in our budget a subsidy reform that makes people more active and makes it always worthwhile to take a job in relation to living on a grant. It is incredibly important that we get this in place in Sweden. Secondly, Mr President, we are investing in education. Here I can also pay tribute to the government and the cooperation parties: I fully share the view that education will be a key to achieving this task. The education system at all its levels really needs resources to enable people to reset and take a place in education and training in order to move forward. Education is a key to solving unemployment. Mr President, I would like to Politics makes a difference. I'd like to give you a brief story. We in this House have discussed support for the various forms of enterprise. The Moderates and other opposition parties have pushed for support for individual traders as well. We brought the whole Parliament with us in June on this proposal, and I was pleased about that. Then I was less happy that it took so long. Yesterday I spoke to Elin who lives in Umeå. She is a single mother of three, a cultural worker and a self-employed person. I had contact with her during the summer with several other entrepreneurs. Yesterday she was told that she will receive support. She's been waiting all these months for some kind of compensation. She's been struggling. She is an entrepreneur and sees solutions, but she has had extremely tough times. Now she still gets a little compensation for the toil and the very tough situation she and others have been in. Elin was touched. I was moved and happy because I know that what we are doing in here together makes a difference to people who during this crisis are having a tough time. To conclude, I would like to support reservation 1. It's a budget that can make a difference – it takes height because the crisis is going to last – and it's a budget that tackles the major problems, which do not focus on just getting along, as the four parties do when they tick off the checklist, but simply want to solve the problems that Sweden is facing.
i-fc33ce39966def79-32	Mr President, I would like to I requested a reply to ask Elisabeth Svantesson to explain what the Moderates think about health insurance. A system that has not been able to cope with the pandemic is health insurance. We have seen a dramatic increase in the number of people who are insured after 180 days. In the Social Security Committee there are discussions in which all parties seem to agree. There is something here that does not work, and we need to act. But when I read the Moderates' budget, it appears that the Moderates see great opportunities to reduce the cost of health insurance. This must mean that more people will receive a negative response from Försäkringskassan. This is a direct contrast to what is being done in the Social Security Committee. I can't really get this together. There's a system that doesn't work. Elisabeth Svantesson sees opportunities to make that system even more strict but acts in the Social Security Committee to patch up the symptoms of the sick patient, who affected those who worked in care last spring and got covid but still have not recovered from that chasm. Mr President, I would like to I thought Elisabeth Svantesson might have a chance to explain.
i-fc33ce39966def79-35	Mr President, I would like to I do not know whether Karolina Skog has read neither our budget motion nor what we have done with the Christian Democrats in the Social Security Committee. There we took an initiative precisely in view of the fact that those who are long-term ill in covid must have an exception during this period. I am pleased that, together – many parties – during this period we have been able to introduce temporary derogations into health insurance. It's been necessary. When the government urges people to be at home in case of cold symptoms, it is of course not reasonable to have a Karen's Day. Nor, of course, is it reasonable for the employer to take all the costs of sickness pay when people are at home for that reason. But we Moderates will never use the pandemic as a reason to undermine the basics of the health insurance system. That is what Karolina Skog can read about in our budget. For us, it is obvious that people should receive the support they need from the beginning in sick leave and that rehabilitation chains should work. We have always thought so, and we will continue to think so. It's not a contradiction. The savings mentioned by Karolina Skog relate to the view of a more remote border. We do not regard health insurance as an eternal income insurance policy. We see it precisely as health insurance during the time you need support, but there should also be a limit. Why is that border important, Mr President? Among other things, in order to get the support you need. Unfortunately, the government with the Green Party and the Social Democrats is unable to manage Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen. People don't get the help they need. That's the problem. It's not that there's a need for a more distant border.
i-fc33ce39966def79-40	Mr President, I would like to It is clear to me that the pandemic has once again given us proof that there are problems with an insurance system with a stop date. People don't fit into that kind of template. There are many diagnoses, and there are many, not least women, who suffer from diseases that require long rehabilitation. With support and sufficient rehabilitation, they can return to the work they had before and want to return to. But with a strict system of backlogs, and being forced out to look for other jobs, there is a socio-economic loss that can lead to terrible conditions for the person. It is clear that the Moderates do not want to help the patient get well but to use a system that is then patched together. For me, it is incomprehensible and irresponsible.
i-fc33ce39966def79-42	Mr President, I would like to For me, it is vital that every human being receives the support and help that is needed. The important chain that we in the Alliance started in our years was very important to get that support. I do not think you should hang up a budget debate on an element in the Ekot, but instead you should find out the facts. We know that about 97% of all applications receive a yes in health insurance. It's still important to remember. I say again that the Green Party and the Social Democrats must ensure that the Social Insurance Agency and the Employment Service do their job, that is, provide people with the help and support they need. Then we believe that the pandemic should not be used as an excuse to undermine the social security system, but there are exceptions that need to be made. I've mentioned Karen's Day. We must also see that there is long-term sick leave in covid; they also need an exception.
i-fc33ce39966def79-46	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish economy has been hit hard by Corona. Despite large support measures, not least in the form of short-term lay-offs involving half a million employees, many people have lost their jobs. That even in a historical crisis like this, the Moderates can't stand behind ordinary people having a secure unemployment fund is still amazing. Instead, in the Moderates' budget, we can read that they want to cut labour market policies by nearly 10 billion. More than half is about lowering the unemployment fund from the turn of the year. The baker at Polarbröd in Älvsbyn who has lost his job, the restaurant employee who has become unemployed during the Corona and those who have been laid off in the tourism industry will get caught. Do Elisabeth Svantesson and the Moderates really think it is appropriate to remove the financial security of people right now?
i-fc33ce39966def79-49	Mr President, I would like to I really think the unemployment fund should be a protection, and it should be fair. This is the foundation of Swedish labour market policy. But it is no secret that the Social Democrats and the Moderates have different views on exactly where the level should be. Nor is it a secret that we Moderates will do everything we can, every day of the week, during the crisis and after the crisis, to increase jobs and to push back unemployment. That will always be our focus. We will always fight for every job during the crisis. One should know that we have been the driving force for support. Without the drive we and other opposition parties have done, even more would have been unemployed. And without the drive we are doing, more will become unemployed. That's our focus. But the unemployment fund should be fair. In addition, you should have support during the time when you are unemployed. The question must go back to you, Åsa Westlund. Do you think that those who are now unemployed receive the support they need from Arbetsförmedlingen, for which you have been responsible for over six years?
i-fc33ce39966def79-52	Mr President, I would like to We are making a historic effort to get people into jobs and education during this time. But that is not quite enough. Some people actually get out of work. Social-democratic policy is to leave the slightly higher level of unemployment insurance even after the end of the year. It is an important measure for those who have become unemployed in the ranks of the coronans, but also for society at large, because when the crisis comes, we will stay together. We'll be there for each other. The strong society needs to exist for companies, which we have already discussed many times, but also for ordinary people. The Moderates are not content with lowering the unemployment fund, but also want to reintroduce the backlog in health insurance. What exactly are the Moderates thinking? How does reduced unemployment and re-stocking help Sweden to cope better through this crisis?
i-fc33ce39966def79-55	Mr President, I would like to I've already answered the question. I think you should have a reasonable level of unemployment insurance when you're unemployed. I also think health insurance should be reasonable. That's the answer to that question. It is very interesting that when the Social Democrats have ruled Sweden for six years, Sweden sets a new record in unemployment levels. It is because you never ever focus on the work line before compensation and grants and because you never succeed in the structurally correct and important reforms that Sweden needs to get through the crisis. But you don't even realize that the pandemic is still going on. You want to restart Sweden. We now need a continuation of crisis policy. There is a need for fair protection for the unemployed and aid to continue. However, we also need structural reforms that actually increase the number of jobs so that we do not win the league we now find ourselves in among the highest levels of unemployment in the European Union.
i-fc33ce39966def79-58	Mr President, I would like to First hand spirit of the day. It will be more a number of times during the day, if you say so. But that's the way it should be, and that's the least you can do. I have noted that Elisabeth Svantesson has a genuine interest in bringing forward various reforms to save businesses. That's very good. Unfortunately, however, I can also say that there seems to be a genuine interest in at the same time worsening for workers and those who get sick. When I look at the Moderate Budget Movement, I see that the sick should have both reduced compensation and more days of withdrawal. They should also have higher taxes because they get sick. I don't know what world the Moderates live in. I've seen for years, and I think most people in society have seen, that people get very bad in this health insurance. Rejections increased by 40 per cent this year – 40 per cent. At the same time, we know that many people are rejected at the so-called 180-day limit. This is when you should be tested against the whole labour market. I know people who lie at home with closed curtains, who can't move, who are completely excluded, but the Social Insurance Agency is judged to be able to go out and take a job in the labour market. Arbetsförmedlingen says it's impossible. The Moderates say it's possible. I wonder why. Why should people who are already living in a vulnerable situation be tormented by removing their financial security? The same thing with the unemployment fund – a paper worker who loses the job or another person who loses the job should receive a maximum of 20 000 SEK before tax in unemployment funds if the Moderates are allowed to decide. That's about $15,000 after tax. I don't know how Elisabeth Svantesson thinks it is to live on those income levels and have a family, manage rent and food and let the children live the life they have lived before. In addition, this person should pay higher taxes than when it was working. Why do the Moderates have such a genuine interest in hitting those who are economically vulnerable?
i-fc33ce39966def79-64	Mr President, I would like to I rarely get personal or private. I won't be here either, but let me make one point: I know many people who live on very small incomes, much less than 20 000. I just want it said. It's not like I'm on a desert island somewhere. But my focus will always be on one thing: not above all to save Swedish companies, which Ulla Andersson is into, but to save Swedish jobs. I want to start there. The fact that we in the Moderates have spent such enormous energy throughout the spring is about saving Swedish jobs. I am absolutely convinced that without the work that we and other opposition parties did during the spring, unemployment would have been even higher and more would have been paid by the unemployment fund instead of wages. I am absolutely convinced of that, and I am proud of that. Then I just want to correct Ulla Andersson. It is not the case that we reduce the reimbursement of health insurance in our budget. It might be good to point out. Maybe it's an old point of speech that's been hanging on to since before. But we don't. However, we have a limit because we believe that we should get help and support. And it is not Elisabeth Svantesson or Ulf Kristersson who now runs Försäkringskassan. It's the government. The fact that you have more refusals now than before is a matter of government control of Försäkringskassan. I'm not responsible for that. I take responsibility for the Sweden that we want to see. We want to see a Sweden where every human being can come to his own. We want to see a Sweden where we save as many jobs as possible during the crisis. It must then be understood that the crisis will continue. And we want to see a Sweden where unemployed and sick people get the help and support they need. Then there is a difference between the views of the Left Party and the Moderates on exact levels of both health insurance and unemployment insurance. But Sweden is a country where there should be fair compensation. In particular, support should be given to move forward.
i-fc33ce39966def79-70	Mr President, I would like to It almost seems that Elisabeth Svantesson has missed that you lose your job because of a crisis. How does Elisabeth Svantesson think there will be more jobs if those who become unemployed receive lower compensation? In what way is it connected to pauping those who lose their jobs because of the crisis? Sure, there are many who have much less compensation than 14,000 per month. It's sad in such a rich country. At the same time, I can read that the Moderates are improving the economy for the 10 percent that are absolutely the best in society. So everything is as usual. They choose to cut back on the sick and the unemployed to pay for it so that this 10% will get even better than they already did. Now, during the crisis, it is about 60% who are receiving 80% of their previous income. With the Moderates' proposal, it will be about 30 percent that will get 80 percent. Why do you want to turn on those who are already lying? Why do you think there are more jobs to be done by pauping those who lose their jobs, and why do you think that being poor-made makes the sick healthy?
i-fc33ce39966def79-73	Mr President, I would like to There were many statements and many questions, which, of course, I do not have time to answer in one minute. Let me just say that we have different views on exact levels of unemployment. We should also remember that it is essentially taxpayers' money that is at stake, and they should be given priority. You should have reasonable levels, but we have a lower level than the Left Party has in its budget. I also know that very many people are unemployed today who also have income insurance. I think that's good. It is good that many of the trade unions work with income insurance so that you can have an extra insurance that is funded by someone other than the taxpayer. Finally, Mr President, I will continue in my eagerness to increase the number of jobs and to push down unemployment. I do not understand that there are so many in this House who support a government that has actually completely failed in unemployment and has also failed to rehabilitate people who are currently on sick leave and do not receive the support they need.
i-fc33ce39966def79-77	Mr President, I would like to It seems to me that we are going to have to live with this pandemic for another moment. It places quite high demands, not least on the government but also on us in the Finance Committee – in any case in the parts that fall within our area of competence. The ability of public society, not least municipalities and regions, to solve its tasks and tasks is, of course, dependent on the resources that can be used. Unfortunately, we were able to see even before the pandemic struck how the government's policy led to a erosion of the resources of the municipalities and regions. They are burdened with more tasks, the reception of newly arrived migrants, for example, without, at the same time, providing corresponding resources to solve those tasks. As a result, expenditure is growing more than revenue. This is, as I think many people understand, not a sustainable order in the long run. This system urgently needs to be inverted, that is to say, we need to increase resources through higher contributions to the municipal equalisation system, for example, while at the same time removing non-priority data, such as the reception of new arrivals. Legal requirements for the provision of mother tongue education are another example. We all knew that we were relatively unprepared for this crisis even before. The difference was that while one party, the Swedish Democrats, before this crisis, pointed out the importance of not only military but also civilian preparedness, the other parties were more or less indifferent. It is in itself positive that other parties are also starting to sound more like the Swedish Democrats on this issue, but it is still the case that the ability to maintain basic preparedness is, of course, linked to the issue of financial resources. Mr President, I would like to The development of the pandemic and the development of the economy seem for perhaps obvious, natural reasons to hang quite intimately together. When we see the development that is taking place at the moment in relation to the virus and the spread of the disease, at least I see a great need to strengthen the business community and help entrepreneurs. For my part, I think it is better if we politicians at least try to paint with a little wider brush strokes, with general support measures. The more surgical precision we try to engage in, the greater the risk that we will either miss out on what is just beside or, at worst, even create problems that are greater than those we are trying to solve. We can take as an example what the Swedish Democrats are proposing: quite extensive reductions in the employer's contribution and the self-tax. It is a simple and understandable measure. There is no need for a specific application procedure. There is no need for an additional control authority and no new systems that are not already in place. And it's something that benefits everyone. Temporary reductions in employers' and self-employed contributions equivalent to SEK 23.3 billion during the first half of 2021, I therefore believe, will be a particularly welcome measure among entrepreneurs. That could be the difference between bankruptcy and not bankruptcy or between cuts and no cuts. This is a short-term cost, yes. But in as little as one or a few years' time it may turn out to be an investment, with high returns as well. I happen to like high yields. To me, Mr President, the government's rather flagrant lack of action in the field of justice policy is completely incomprehensible. You often say yourself that you've been naive– you didn't see it coming and so on. And that's for sure in itself; that's probably true. But I wonder if that's even enough for an explanation. I wonder if you are perhaps not only naive but also totally indifferent. How is it possible, at some level, to be satisfied with a system that does not expose serious rapists and murderers? I don't get it. I believe, Mr President, that we should now use this crisis to invest, by far, in the judicial system. We do that because it's necessary, of course. But we can also do so in a way that stimulates jobs and employment, through proper infrastructure investment in the penal services, short-term as well as long-term, in order to solve the capacity shortage, which the Social Democrats simply ignore. We want to see more police officers, better paid police officers, paid police training to attract more to the profession, and 5,000 state-funded police officers who, under police command, can help relieve the police. In the Swedish Democrats' budget option next year, SEK 11.2 billion will be spent more on the judiciary than in the government's budget. This is what is needed, not primarily because it is particularly fun, but because the Social Democrats have not taken responsibility. The question then is, Mr President: how is this financed? The short answer is that we do not. We borrow – increases the public debt. It is right to do this. The single greatest aim, as I see it, of having a low public debt in ordinary times, if I may put it that way, is to have a high degree of freedom of action, or a large range of action, if you like, in a little more unusual times. But then it is also necessary to have a plan in the short term for how to get back to a low debt, if only to be ready and have a high degree of freedom of action the next time any accident falls upon us. Next time it may be a new Chinese plague or, more likely, something quite different – stock market crash, oil crisis, terrorist attack, war in the Middle East or simply that Kim Jong Un has a bad day at work. Whatever the case, the lower the level of public debt, the higher the level of freedom of action. We now have a budget for one year, 2021, and the direction for two years, 2022 and 2023, before us today and at the end of this afternoon's vote. We see clearly in the Swedish Democrats' reservation number 2, which, by the way, I would like to take the opportunity to call for approval, Mr President, that we have just such a plan. By 2025 we should be back in line with the debt anchor, i.e. a public debt of 35 percent in relation to the bnp, of course. If you have this as a plan or a goal, you have to prioritise. We cannot have a crisis here at home and at the same time take the Swedish taxpayers' money and give it away in massive funding packages to other EU countries, which decade after decade have seriously mismanaged their own economies. It's not working. Nor can we take the Swedish taxpayers' money and give it away to more or less corrupt regimes on the other side of the world in the form of the world's highest aid. It's not working. We need to choose. It is only imaginary politicians from fantasy parties – unfortunately, there are a couple of them in this House – who infantilely insist that we can do both. We have to choose – we choose Sweden first.
i-fc33ce39966def79-94	Mr President, I would like to We are now in the midst of a crisis, but we also have a historic opportunity to change the industry and create the green jobs of the future. This week we heard about LKAB's new investment for fossil-free iron, which is expected to create between 2 000 and 3 000 new jobs in Kiruna and Gällivare – a prime example of how Swedish climate policy, together with Swedish industry, creates both future jobs and a more competitive greener Sweden for the future. At the same time, I can read in your budget motion that you are cutting more than 6 billion in the field of environment and climate spending. You want to remove the Climate Klivet, i.e. the measures that often make sure that new technology comes into use, in charging poles and biogas plants around Sweden. You want to cut in the Industriklivet, with investments in new technology such as fossil-free iron. Why do the Swedish Democrats want Sweden and Swedish industry to throw off the international leadership shirt we have in the climate area and risk Swedish jobs in the future?
i-fc33ce39966def79-97	Mr President, I would like to I had an exciting meeting with the tech companies yesterday. We talked about the conversion and explicitly about LKAB's planned huge investment. It's a historic investment. And here you should be a little careful, because although LKAB is a state-owned company, the company does this for its own money. Apart from who is the owner, LKAB operates on exactly the same premises as any other limited liability company. This is super exciting! That's awesome. Excuse me. – that this can be done. However, LKAB does not receive grants from the father state, but does this as a limited company. Many of the other companies in the industry concerned – LKAB is the largest, of course – also sees the corresponding technology ahead, but without subsidies from the father state. This will fix the limited liability companies themselves. The prerequisite for this to work is that the energy supply works. This will consume huge amounts of energy to work. Then we cannot have a system in which Norrland supplies Svealand and Götaland with its hydropower, as is the case today. This energy will have to remain in Norrland if you are to have a fossil-free production of iron and iron ore. We cannot shut down nuclear power in the southern and central parts of the country and at the same time milk energy production from Norrland, because that energy will have to stay up in Norrland. The social democrats and the government are destroying the entire climate transition through, not least, the closure of nuclear power.
i-fc33ce39966def79-101	Mr President, I would like to I do not think the Swedish democrats answered any of the questions I asked about. You want to cut more than 6 billion on the environment and climate. The only comparison I can think of is the one with Donald Trump when he took over power. You also want to cut in the Industriklivet, the investment that makes Swedish industry, together with the state, dare to take major technological leaps, for example what we heard is presented this week but also, for example, Hybrid, which LKAB and SSAB have been involved in before. You want to cut it down. You want to cut back on what gives jobs in the long run. Old M etallbasen Göran Johnsson used to say that he was not afraid of new technology; he was afraid of old technology, because it was old technology that risked making his members unemployed. Why are the Swedish Democrats so afraid of new technology, Oscar Sjöstedt? Is it just because it happens to be green?
i-fc33ce39966def79-104	Mr President, I would like to No, absolutely not. I just said that, for example, what LKAB is doing now is awesome. I think it's cool. But cutting things down has to do with their inefficiency. These efforts have, of course, received enormous criticism from both one and the other authorities of experts. This is a kind of social democratic concept where one believes that only the state can fix something. Now we see an example of a limited liability company planning for the future. There are many such examples. We are talking about something that would last for 10, 20, 30 or perhaps even 40 years– I do not know exactly how long it would last, but it is hugely long in time anyway. It is a social democratic conceptual world where only the state can do things. What the state is doing on this theme is, of course, quite ineffective. What the companies themselves do is effective.
i-fc33ce39966def79-107	Mr President, I would like to Oscar Sjöstedt spoke in his speech about business support and the importance of having business support that reaches and works, especially for the sectors in crisis. I have also noted that in recent months both Jimmie Åkesson and Oscar Sjöstedt have been talking about specific sector support for the restaurant industry, which is now suffering from the increased restrictions. The Swedish Democrats have also presented an initiative on this in the Riksdag. That is why I am surprised that the Swedish Democrats in the budget that they want the Parliament to vote through this afternoon more than double the VAT on restaurant and catering services as well as on b from vats and bottles. This strikes straight and only against the industry to which you then want industry support. This industry will pay 14 billion more according to your proposal. Then my question to Oscar Sjöstedt is: Do the Swedish Democrats really want the Swedish Parliament to vote through your budget motion today and put a big stone on already huge burden for this industry?
i-fc33ce39966def79-109	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Jakob Forssmed! Our attempt to harmonise VAT rates should not be seen as some kind of corona measure. We want to move step by step towards a more uniform VAT, which I believe. The Swedish Democrats have quite rightly put forward a committee initiative in the Committee on Finance in order to obtain support for the restaurateurs, who have suffered from a not complete but at least partial ban on nutrition through the so-called alcohol ban. I hope that, among others, the Christian Democrats are prepared to give us some support for this. I guess it'll come up in committee tomorrow. If a commercial ban is imposed in practice, it is not the VAT rate that is the major problem. We can reduce VAT to zero, but if you lose your turnover, it makes no difference. That is the problem with the ban on nutrition, and then we need to find other tools than the VAT rate to help the restaurateurs. As I said in my speech, relief in employers' contributions is something that helps the restaurant business. We and the others have pushed the government and others for an extension of the conversion aid. We want to extend it and make it something more beneficial. Now the government has said that it takes a turnover rate of 50% to be able to get a share of it, while we have advocated 30%. These kinds of measures are, I think, more adapted for this time. However, a reduction in VAT as a corona measure for an industry that has been more or less affected by a trade ban will not help.
i-fc33ce39966def79-113	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats would like to discuss how support can reach all the sectors in crisis, so that the support works, is effective and hits the right place to save as many jobs and businesses as possible. But it is not me who labors with the VAT rates, it is Oscar Sjöstedt. And it is in Oscar Sjöstedt's budget option that the Swedish Democrats draw 14 billion into increased tax revenue from the restaurant industry from the turn of the year. This is what you want us to say yes to this afternoon. Now Oscar Sjöstedt says that this is a slow adjustment of VAT rates. It is not: it is a doubling of VAT from the turn of the year. It's not super slow. And you want to withdraw the money. I agree that we should not work with VAT rates at this stage, but that is exactly what Oscar Sjöstedt wants. I think that the argument is actually limping. Oscar Sjöstedt will be happy to develop his reasoning and also answer the question: do you want to vote on your proposal for a double VAT rate in restaurants this afternoon?
i-fc33ce39966def79-116	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the Swedish Democrats' parliamentary group will vote for the Swedish Democrats' reservation. That's it, of course. It is not a natural law for a particular sector to have reduced VAT. The regular VAT rate is 25 %. The reduced VAT for the restaurant industry was pushed through in 2008, I think. So it hasn't been that way since the oath, but it was one of the alliance governments that pushed this through– I don't remember if it was the first or the second, but I think it was the first. It was thought that it would be a huge number of jobs if we reduced VAT for this particular industry. If so, why could it not be lowered for any other industry? After a while, the VAT reduction was evaluated, and it was seen that it had arrived in the order of 1,000 jobs at a cost of SEK 5, 6 or 7 billion. Then you have to condemn the reduction as ineffective. There are more effective things to do. It is therefore not a natural law that this particular sector should have reduced VAT, while all other sectors have regular VAT of 25%. On the contrary, I think that in the long term we need to go back to a system of uniform VAT. We are not doing this in this budget, so that is not what we are voting on, but in the long term we are going to do it.
i-fc33ce39966def79-120	Mr President, I would like to I was going to take care of where Jakob Forssmed left off, with the VAT rates. In his speech, Oscar Sjöstedt spoke about the importance of general measures and not going in and out of pinpointa, but that is exactly what the Swedish democrats are doing. They choose to increase the tax by almost 14 billion for the sector that is most vulnerable. That, if anything, is surgical precision, not in the right direction, but in the wrong direction. So it is being made even tougher for this industry. What is also incredibly interesting is that Oscar Sjöstedt talks about the fact that he wants a uniform VAT rate, not in this budget but in the long term. Yes, what other industries are incredibly vulnerable in this crisis? Well, the people who do passenger transport. They currently have 6% VAT. Oscar Sjöstedt also wants to raise to 25 percent. It's the next blow to an incredibly vulnerable industry. My question to Oscar Sjöstedt is: Do you regret that the Swedish Democrats chose to make this reform right now?
i-fc33ce39966def79-124	Mr President, I would like to Now the imagination is flowing wildly. First of all, there are no proposals to increase VAT on transport, for example for the taxi industry, which is indeed 6%. There are no such proposals. I didn't say this. I didn't suggest it. Now it's just the imagination that's flowing. We can make up our minds about how things can be a little bit later in the future – it's not a problem to do that, is it? If there is to be uniform VAT, it is not a natural law that it needs to be increased. It can be uniform and lowered. I have mentioned uniform VAT. I think it is good to have uniform VAT, because there are a lot of tax errors if it is different in different industries. One example is the restaurant VAT. Before the alliance government went forward with the inefficient reduction, we had a VAT rate for restaurants and another rate for takeout. Then anyone knows that going to McDonald's, a pizzeria or wherever you like to go is going to be a problem. If you stay and eat, you will have to pay a certain amount of VAT, and if you bring your food home, you will have to pay another. Anyone realizes that there will be a problem if there is a VAT rate at the restaurant itself and another if you take the food with you from there. I think it is wise, purely economic, to have uniform VAT. That way you will avoid all the tax errors that arise almost as a natural law. But that doesn't mean it should be higher. I didn't say that. I have said that it should be uniform. It can be uniform and lower. I have not spoken of an increase in VAT. I have been talking about uniform VAT. Let's not let our imagination go too far. I still believe that, at this very time, it is not the issue of VAT that is the urgent issue. Instead, it is a question of getting support in place. There the Center Party has to some extent had quite productive entrances and, together with us in the opposition, put some pressure on the government, and I must say that I appreciate that.
i-fc33ce39966def79-129	Mr President, I would like to I thank Oscar Sjöstedt for his praise. We work every day to ensure that Swedish companies survive this crisis. However, I still find it difficult to understand Oscar Sjöstedt. In the argument with Jakob Forssmed, Oscar Sjöstedt said that the increase in restaurant VAT of 14 billion for those most vulnerable is a step towards uniform VAT. Then he said: No, we are not going to increase VAT on passenger transport at all and other things where it is 6% today. There may be a reduction in VAT. This will be very difficult to understand when you choose to increase VAT. In addition, Oscar Sjöstedt says that it gets tricky when you have different VAT rates on food and restaurants, for example. Yes, that is correct, but that is what the Swedish Democrats are proposing when you want to raise VAT in the restaurants but keep it on the food. Today it is the same tax rate. And one big reason why we have a low tax on the restaurants is that the regulatory burden is reduced. Once again, Oscar Sjöstedt: Do you regret that you tabled this proposal in the midst of the current crisis?
i-fc33ce39966def79-133	Mr President, I would like to First of all, we have not tabled this proposal in the midst of a pandemic. We put it about in connection with the alliance government's coming forward with this, quite a few years ago. It wasn't exactly then, because then we weren't even in Parliament, I came up with it. But it was a few years later. So we have not put it forward for this reason. I think, as I said, you're missing a lot of points. This should be seen as a more long-term policy, which I think is wise. At that time, the Alliance pushed through a reduction in the VAT rate for a specific sector identified at the expense of other industries. Why wasn't it done for some other business? Why wasn't it done for the car industry? Why was it not done for other industries? Why were they doing that? Had the analyses and evaluations of that particular reform shown that it created 50 000 new jobs, it would have been a good reform. But it created 1,000 new jobs. Then it was a bad and expensive reform. That's how you should see it. This, of course, is not a corona measure. It is a sensible and long-term economic policy.
i-fc33ce39966def79-138	Mr President, I would like to We are a few who gather for this debate in Parliament's Chamber. This is because there is a pandemic in the country and around the world. The hope we all had of a calmer autumn has not come true. But despite all this, Sweden is strong. Despite the pressures we have not experienced in manna memory, Sweden is largely united. We show what Swedish determination is in practice. It is nurses, nurses and doctors who are in the front line of care. It is small businessmen who work day and night to save their businesses from bankruptcy and rescue staff from redundancies. There are many of us who do our part by doing our job, following the guidelines of the Swedish Public Health Agency and in other ways taking social responsibility when it is needed most. The role of the Center Party in this is vital. We take financial responsibility for Sweden. The government has implemented a number of restrictions on its own. We think several of them are blunt. They are sometimes disconnected from the Public Health Authority's advice. We are involved in the consequences of the restrictions and take financial responsibility for them. Our objective is that those affected by the restrictions should receive financial compensation. The Center Party has long proposed to have a pandemic law that focuses on infection rather than a smooth legislation through the Order Act. Then Skansen could not have been open while Liseberg was forced to close. Then the spread of infection would have been indicative, not the law of order. There the government needs to change its Corona policy. But the budget that we are now presenting, which we are here to debate, is agreed. It is a budget that takes up the increase in the spread of infection. It makes it easier for entrepreneurs to get through the crisis, and it helps people to keep their jobs. We are bringing forward public investment in road and rail. We make sure that it is digitized out in the cabins. We spend 1.4 billion on broadband, which we have seen is needed when people are going to work at home. We also strengthen incentives for companies that take the opportunity to invest in this crisis. It will now be extra profitable to do so to stimulate the economy so that we can stand stronger on the other side. We all know that there is no stopping out of an uphill. That's why we put in an extra gear so that those companies that want can grow stronger and get over the hill. We have come up with a record number of amending budgets over the past year. That is, of course, what we should see in this overall picture. We are following developments, and we are giving information as soon as we can and it is technically and practically possible. This shows the momentum of economic cooperation between the January parties. It is primarily about three things: to secure central social functions, to support welfare and the activities that must function regardless of whether it is a corona crisis or not and to save Swedish jobs and companies to the extent possible. It is also a question of ensuring that we come out stronger on the other side. On all points we have delivered stable measures. It is turnover support, conversion aid, increased general government subsidies, short-term lay-offs and money for testing and tracking combined with wise green conversion measures, tax cuts in terms of jobs and entrepreneurship and much more that will enable us to get through this. A personal favourite that we deliver in this budget is the green deduction that we carry out at the turn of the year. Instead of complicated grant forms and long waiting times, sometimes in over a year, the person putting solar cells on the roof, a battery store in the basement or a charging post on the garage driveway receives a deduction directly on his invoice. It is a good reform to change Sweden and at the same time make it easier for both individuals and companies. Another reform that drives the transition is the efforts to reduce emissions that are now being carried out. It was one of the Center Party's big election promises. We were involved in demanding that we now give money even to those who remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. It is a revolution in the view of reduced emissions. It is important that we implement these measures now, because it cannot wait. If you look at several of the opposition parties' budgets, you can see that the focus is on then, not here and now. These are solutions that at best can be found in a decade or two, according to the industry itself. Measures should preferably be implemented elsewhere, with uncertain verifiability. It is not to take climate responsibility, nor is it to take the responsibility that Swedish citizens but also Swedish companies expect. The climate issue is a competitive advantage for Sweden. Companies are attracted by renewable electricity, tough environmental requirements and access to skills and innovation. These are the things that attract investment to us. Let us push for this rather than drive businesses away with reduced demands. On the company side in particular, Mr President, we are doing a great deal of work in general. Tax cuts of over 30 billion will be made next year, and the three biggest reductions will include a reduction in income tax, a reduction in employers' contributions for young people and a reduction in taxes for investment firms. We had already this summer, in the midst of a burning pandemic and economic crisis, been able to have a system in place with reduced taxes for the employee, but unfortunately the collective opposition with V, SD, M and KD opposed this, a measure that has cost both time and jobs. Together, tax cuts will help stimulate the national economy and improve people's personal economy. It's important. It's a reform of freedom. They will also strengthen the Swedish business community, not least the affected industries, and also give many young people the chance to work and the opportunity to contribute to the development of society. That is why it is so surprising that a party like the Swedish Democrats wants to raise the tax on restaurants by nearly 14 billion. We will follow developments. As I said, it is a whole. We will certainly present more amending budgets and take the necessary measures to ensure that the Swedish economy is strong. In this context, I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to all my colleagues across party boundaries, because, together in the spring and autumn, we have piloted amending budgets through Parliament, in record time and many times in broad agreement. I think this is a strength for Swedish politics. It has been done in a good spirit, and it is important. It is important to send the signal together to Swedish entrepreneurs and citizens that we solve the problems. No one knows when the economic and, above all, health challenges are over. What we do know, however, is that we will come out differently on the other side, and our task now is to build that society stronger and take advantage of the opportunities created. Digitalisation has taken place at record speed, and all of a sudden it is acceptable to have a digital meeting instead of a physical one. It can actually bring great benefits, such as reduced travel time and completely different opportunities for participation. This is something positive that we should of course benefit from. It will not replace all physical meetings, but it may replace some. When it comes to the economy, Mr President, in the longer term we need to come back and focus on public finances. We must ensure that the measures we are taking now bring back a stable state economy in time. The advantage we have had is that we have built the economy strong over time, and that means that we can now have these measures without getting the levels of public debt we have seen in many parts of southern Europe. There are also other conclusions that we need to draw and that we are partly already drawing from this budget. We need to strengthen civilian preparedness and defence, and we need to deal with pressures and shocks regardless of what they look like. This may be a matter of forest fires, but it can also be a matter of purely security policy threats. Here we have learned lessons, and we are now trying to solve the problems created by the pre-believers of the 1990s and early 2000s when they pulled down Swedish preparedness a little too much. We must also be involved in making a new start for Sweden. This is a challenge, for how do we maintain Sweden as a world-class industrial country? How do we ensure that green investments are put in place? It is part of the budget, but there will be things to come in the future too. One thing is for sure: The Center Party takes responsibility for the whole of Sweden. We see the court both in Sollefteå and in Sollentuna. We know that the green transition brings with it great opportunities. These are purely economic opportunities; when we do not have to import Russian oil, the money stays here in Sweden. We also have security policy opportunities that we would not otherwise have had and also health benefits as well as the almost very best for a center party: The money will often stay in the Swedish countryside. We will work tirelessly, whether it is about climate challenges, corona or struggle for small companies, to build Sweden stronger, regardless of the world situation.
i-fc33ce39966def79-161	Mr President, I would like to There has never been so much alcohol in this House as at present. Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for your speech. There is no escape from the fact that the Center Party supports a government that has failed in the most important things a government has to deal with. One such thing is to create security in Sweden. Over the years, the government has completely failed to suppress gang crime, reduce juvenile robbery and so on. Moreover, the Center Party is holding a government under its arms which, unfortunately, has also failed to push back unemployment. That was the case before the pandemic and even now. Rickard Nordin made a committed speech and seems quite satisfied with the current situation, but I am concerned. I am concerned when I hear that the cooperation parties and the support parties do not seem to realise that the crisis is here and now. This is not the time to just restart Sweden, but here and now there are a lot of companies – small and large – that are incredibly hard hit by the crisis. They will be for a long time to come. They're employees who are currently worried about having a job after Christmas. There is a committee initiative from the Moderates that will be discussed in the Finance Committee tomorrow. It is a question of improving one of the most important aid available, namely conversion aid. It is a solid support that is aimed precisely at those who lose the most in turnover. They may be compensated for some of the fixed costs. Unfortunately, the government parties and support parties have complicated and made it difficult and have now laid a bar of 50% of the turnover step. My question to Rickard Nordin is: Will Rickard Nordin support the Moderates' initiative to lower the limit to 30% so that we can save more jobs and more Swedish companies?
i-3dkMufhq95ZMxr81LMnUsp	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Elisabeth Svantesson Major reforms in the area of unemployment, for example, are something that the Center Party is pushing for. We see this in the January agreement. We're going to reform Arbetsförmedlingen. We also have discussions when it comes to labour law and other things precisely to strengthen Swedish companies' ability to hire people. That is why we are lowering the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship considerably in the budget. I note that the Moderates want to raise taxes for Swedish companies. The fact that we take the coronapndemin seriously shows, not least, the eleven amending budgets that we have so far submitted to Parliament. We have also announced that there will be an amending budget directly in January, a twelfth one. To say that we do not see the pandemic here and now is directly wrong. We have given notice of short-term lay-offs for a long time to come, all the way to the summer. We have given prior notice of turnover aid and conversion aid in November and December. We are implementing major measures to save Swedish companies. We are having discussions when it comes to budgetary matters with the government. Basically, we do not do this in committee. That's how we push. We are continuing negotiations on many issues, and one can be sure that the Center Party is pushing for adequate support for both individuals and other types of companies in relation to existing restrictions. I think it's good that the Moderates are on there too. There are many of us who need to be helped together to make sure that these things come into place. But our focus is to pressure the government, and we do so in direct negotiations.
i-fc33ce39966def79-170	Mr President, I would like to I really hope that you will come across the government when you actually cooperate with it, and not just on the budget, but on 73 points covering most of it. It's the least I can expect from the Center Party. However, I would like to know why you are not improving these subsidies and why you cannot agree to lower the level to 30% as it was at the beginning of the crisis. That is because it is a solid support, and it hits exactly those who are the toughest and are now severely affected by the restrictions. I would like an answer to that question. As far as tax cuts are concerned, it is quite clear that we will always invest in tax cuts that are effective and accurate, and we do so in the budget. We know that job tax deductions and reductions in corporate tax have an impact on employment. Let's make it permanent. Therefore, it has a permanent impact on Swedish jobs. Having a patchwork of various deductions, which is also temporary, does not lead to more jobs no matter how much you want it.
i-fc33ce39966def79-174	Mr President, I would like to The problem of focusing above all on income tax cuts is that it is not basically the citizens who are in the crisis. It is companies that have major problems. It will not help businesses to hire more people to reduce the tax on income. When it comes to what level we should have on the conversion aid, it is actually not communicated yet. Whether we will have 50%, 30% or any other percentage, neither Elisabeth Svantesson nor anyone else knows right now. That is something we will have to come back to.
i-fc33ce39966def79-176	Mr President, I would like to The pandemic has very clearly exposed the shortcomings that exist in the health insurance that we have. There have been shortcomings since the introduction by the bourgeois government of the regulatory framework with fixed time limits which now governs. This year, about 40 per cent of the sick are expected to be refused sickness benefit at the 180-day limit. The large increase in rejection came even before the pandemic. It was cancer, heart disease, mental illness, burn-out and people with ME who had their sickness allowance withdrawn, even though they were on medical leave. But they are not allowed to be sick. They are going to a labour market with, I would say, fictitious jobs, that is, fictional jobs. I've met a lot of people who have been told that they can take a job. But when someone says that you have only one arm that works, they tell you that you can apply for a job where you can work with an arm. When someone says that both wrists are still unusable, you are told that you can apply for other jobs where you do not need to use your wrists. When someone says that you can't work because you can't take stress, they tell you that you can look for a job without stress. We are also seeing an increase in people in the country's social office, where sick people are forced to seek subsistence support. Some 19 000 people, i.e. as many as live in Eksjö or Knivsta, are forced into the social services instead of receiving compensation from the health insurance. In Olofström, as many as 56 per cent of those who receive support are actually ill and sick. In Nordanstig it is 17 percent, in Orsa 30 percent, in Sigtuna 30 percent and in Gnesta 30 percent of those who receive support that is sick. My question to Rickard Nordin is: Will the Center now act so that we have a permanent change in the rules regarding the jobs to be applied for at 180 days and at 365 days?
i-fc33ce39966def79-182	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ulla Andersson for the question. Either it was a bit of luck, or it was nicely read, that Ulla Andersson chose Eksjö, because it is my municipality of residence. The Left Party budget raises taxes on entrepreneurship by several billions. It makes hiring people more expensive, and it makes hiring people more insecure. This makes people who have been on sick leave and can come back part - time more difficult because it becomes more costly to have these people employed. Of course, it is important to review all our systems in terms of income insurance, health insurance and other matters. We do this continuously to make it work as well as possible. In the Social Security Committee there is now an initiative in which the main focus is to ensure that people who are long-term sick because of Corona can have a system that works for them as well. Of course, we will follow up on this and ensure that it is done in a good way. Exactly how it will land remains to be seen, as it is not just the Center Party that should like it.
i-fc33ce39966def79-186	Mr President, I would like to Left wing doesn't make it harder to hire. It was a little bit over here. But let's stick to the health insurance. The committee initiative that you have in the Social Security Committee proposes a permanent change in how work should be assessed at 180 and 365 days. Are not the Center Party and Rickard Nordin behind this committee initiative? That's what I'm asking. The answer given by Rickard Nordin here today makes it clear that this is not the case. Is it the case that your Member of the Social Security Committee has done so on his own initiative and that the Center Party does not support this? If so, it is a very serious situation. Here we have believed that there will finally be a permanent change to this regulatory framework that will allow the sick to actually be sick and not be made poor and go out on a labour market with fictional jobs. H ur is it really, Rickard Nordin? What's the Center Party line? I think we need an answer to that.
i-fc33ce39966def79-190	Mr President, I would like to Anyone who reads our committee initiative sees that it is above all the 180-day rule that we are focusing on. That is what the committee initiative says. There's nothing in 365 days. We are, of course, behind our policy until something else is announced. On the other hand, the Center Party is not alone. We are negotiating the budget with three other parties. How these negotiations proceed we will come back to.
i-fc33ce39966def79-192	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for Rickard Nordin's speech. I always welcome the mention of Sollentuna. I think that should happen more often. That is a request to all Members of this House. Rickard Nordin talked a little bit about the opposition. He said that the starting points for our policy were then and not here and now. He was, of course, boasting of his own reforms. He spoke about the importance of major income tax relief and other tax reliefs on jobs and businesses. There was a long list of effects that would result from these tax incentives. It would be easier for young people to get a job, in that it would be easier for industries, etc. would have increased freedom and driving forces to work and so on. Then one must expect it to happen here and now and not then. But it is there and then that these fine things that Rickard Nordin is talking about will happen. The temporary job tax deduction introduced at the end of the year will not appear in people's wallets until midsummer 2022. It's not here and now, it's since and then. The same applies to the reduction of employers' contributions for young people. It will be on April 1st. The crisis is at its deepest here and now. Now we need these reforms. I, for my part, believe that this is an ineffective reform. But Rickard Nordin believes that this reform is very effective. We heard that in his speech. Then it is extremely strange that it is not in place now, today, but will come on 1 April, not here and now, but then and then. This applies to the major reforms on the tax side. So the question is simply: Why?
i-fc33ce39966def79-197	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jakob Forssmed for this. The reason why there is now a focus on the reduction in employers' contributions for young people and not on people who are unemployed is that the Christian Democrats were involved in stopping the proposal for a deduction that we actually tabled already this spring. The Christian Democrats, who actually have a similar proposal in their own budget now, together with the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Left Party, stopped our proposal which had been in place in the middle of the current crisis this summer. They chose to increase the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship. The reason why it is now postponed by almost a year is the Christian Democrats' own problem. It is your own proposal that brought us there. It would have been fantastic if we had been able to have it in place earlier to make sure that people can remain in work or even get their first job to make sure that the Swedish economy is stronger. The reason and blame for the delay is therefore not with the Center Party or, in fact, even with the government, but with the Christian Democrats, the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Left Party, which stopped the tax cuts we intended to implement.
i-fc33ce39966def79-200	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for the answer, which was not an answer to my question at all. Rickard Nordin is talking about a completely different proposal, in which the Moderates and Christian Democrats made a redistribution last winter – but in favour of welfare and care, which we have also so badly needed in this pandemic. It equipped the municipalities stronger. It was not about reducing the social security contribution for young people, but it was a completely different proposal. It was not this proposal – reduced employers' contributions for young people, which you have pushed through in the budget, Rickard Nordin – that was voted on last winter. This is what you have wanted. It was the Center Party that wanted to push this through, but you are making sure that it is in place only on 1 April. The question is: Why not on April 1st? You're not going to hire these people until April 1st? Why should the effects that Rickard Nordin is talking about come only on 1 April? Why aren't they in place now? Why is the proposal not submitted with retroactiveness, which is perfectly possible with regard to employers' contributions? This would apply retroactively to all employees today.
i-fc33ce39966def79-202	Mr President, I would like to It is correct that it is another proposal. That is because the Christian Democrats were involved in stopping the proposal we put forward. We would have preferred to have seen that proposal in place, and then we would not have had to take this measure. The fact that things take time to introduce is often about technicalities in the Tax Agency's systems and other things. That is the kind of thing you need to take into account when you're in control. In opposition, on the other hand, it is clear that you can promise to do things whether they are practical or not. That's not how it works when you're involved in taking responsibility. That is why things are introduced from 1 April.
i-fc33ce39966def79-204	Mr President, I would like to Corona has caused many to lose loved ones. Risk groups have been forced to isolate themselves and live in heavy loneliness. We've all had to limit our lives. Many have lost their jobs, and many entrepreneurs have a very heavy financial situation. Corona has also clearly exposed the consequences of under-funded well-being and precarious employment, which has led to a greater spread of infection, but also the consequences of the class society. The risks are much greater in socio-economically disadvantaged areas where there is a high population density and where many workers' professions live – workers who cannot work from home. Clarification is made visible in a tangible way. A state budget is about what society you want to build and what values govern economic policy. Let me therefore try to sum up the differences between the economic policies of the Left Party and the government in the draft budgets we are now going to debate and vote on: The Left Party spends 30 billion on green investments. The government is cutting taxes for 30 billion. The Left Party is committed to strengthening the welfare of the country's municipalities and regions. The government's letting cuts continue. The Left Party makes sure everyone can afford to go to the dentist. The government invests in grants after grants to wealthy people who do not want to clean their homes themselves, find out their own laundry or refurnish on their own. This clearly shows the differences in policy. With the economic policy of the Left Party there will be fewer luxury yachts and fewer luxury cars on the garage driveways in Saltsjöbaden, but there will be more preschool teachers, nurses and an expanded welfare. For decades, so-called efficiency improvements have been going on in schools, preschools, home care, hospitals and retirement homes. .Effectiveness is actually a more beautiful word for cutbacks. However, the consequences are the same, namely staff who are constantly under stress, toil and feel inadequate. They have to run their own wage increases together, at the cost of many being burned out and looking away from the profession they have trained for. On top of that, it has been privatized so that tax money that would actually go to the businesses instead goes to private profits – and substantial profits too! They are higher than in other privately funded activities. Returns are better in elderly care than in banks. How sick can it be? How, then, have we ended up in these constant cuts? Let me give an example! The Draft Budget of the Moderates and Christian Democrats for 2019, the so-called napkin sketch, went through. In the t, the targeted state contribution to care for the elderly was removed, because tax cuts were more important. When the Social Democrats – you know, those who claim to want the world's best care for the elderly – then made a draft budget that went through, the targeted state contribution to care for the elderly was not put back. On the other hand, there was a huge tax cut for the wealthy. For example, Volvo's CEO received 2 1⁄2 million in tax reductions. For decades, tax cuts have been prioritised over welfare. Instead of acknowledging that tax cuts have been a priority, various parties are accusing immigration of being the problem, when it is de facto the case that without it we would have had a significantly higher retirement age and a much greater shortage of staff in health care. The thing about taking responsibility for one's own priorities is not grown up enough to do, but rather blaming others who cannot defend themselves. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has become the country among OECD countries where economic inequality has grown fastest. The strong growth in capital income is taxed at between 15 and 20 per cent. Then we lose tens of billions who could have been used for better care for the elderly with staff who have time for the old – and even energy left when they come home to sit down and do homework with the children or do other homework. Yes, they could even get a thicker pay envelope! It would be very much needed, and well deserved. The children in preschool could have a calmer environment, and the educators could have more time for each individual child. We could have more care places and more cops. But tax cuts for the wealthy have therefore been a priority. We can decide through political decisions to no longer be a tax haven for the richest. It is through political decisions that we have become so. Why should we, as the only modern industrial country, have neither inheritance nor gift tax? Why should we not have wealth tax or property tax linked to the value of the house? Those who live in the luxury villas in Danderyd pay as much tax – or fee – as those who live in a small wooden hut in Hofors. The wealthiest per cent's capital income corresponds to almost six years' child benefit in the state budget. That clique of society therefore has every year an equal amount to share as six years of child benefit in the state budget, and they pay very little tax on it. I can assure you that there are many children who need to be better off financially. 44,000 children live in families where you can't afford such essential things as rent and food every month. There are as many people living in Motala, or far more than there are in my hometown Bollnäs. Children live in families where a new winter jacket is a luxury – something you can't afford. Or we can talk about the sick who are forced to go to the social office because right-wing politics has decided that health insurance should not allow them to be ill. The Left Party simply proposes fairer taxation, where burdens are shared more fairly. Sick people should pay no more taxes than healthy people with work, nor should unemployed people. We therefore propose that the entire tax gap be removed as early as next year. This would lower taxes for large low-income groups. On the other hand, rich people would have to pay considerably more tax. We also propose a strengthened health insurance and increased compensation for those with sickness and activity benefits. You shouldn't have to get poor because you have the bad luck of having a chronic illness or disability. We also propose the introduction of high cost protection in dental care of SEK 2 000 per year. We mean that people must be able to afford to go to the dentist. Healthy teeth should no longer be a class issue, said the Prime Minister a number of years ago, but that is still the case today. When the Left Party was involved in negotiations, dental care was free of charge for all young people up to the age of 23. Instead, when the Social Democrats negotiate with the Center, there will be contributions to the wealthy in Danderyd and Saltsjöbaden, so that they do not have to clean their own homes. The Left also invests heavily in green investments. Even before covid, it was clear that we needed to change society, because we already had an existential crisis – the climate crisis. Now we need to deal with it seriously, and the money spent to get economies, businesses and jobs going must be invested on the basis of the understanding that they will help solve the climate crisis – otherwise it would be completely irresponsible. That is why we choose to spend 30 billion more than the government on green investments as early as next year. This is a sum that then grows every year. We spend the money to make the cities greener. Around Europe, it has chosen to build bicycle routes, make green areas and reduce the impact of car traffic on cities. We want to do that here too. Parking spaces become green areas, and car space on the roads is reduced for the benefit of cyclists and public transport. Housing areas are proposed to become more self-sufficient in energy. We are also proposing a substantial expansion of public transport and an infrastructure that is improved in rural areas. We also have several proposals to change agriculture in a greener direction and to give aid to the industry for conversion. Of course, we spend a lot of money to build away the housing shortage and get rental apartments for reasonable rents. We propose accessibility support, because society should be there for everyone, regardless of functional variations. We also give children a larger place in the construction of society. It is possible to build an equal and sustainable society that can cope with the climate crisis and where our common needs – and not the need for tax cuts by the rich – can guide social development. I commend the Left Party's reservations 3 and 7.
i-BiJbvDrNyjtRp9LWuWJJrS	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ulla Andersson, for your speech. In the spring, Ulla Andersson and I had a good cooperation on civil society and the importance of giving increased support during the pandemic to civil society organisations, which, although they themselves bleed financially, reach out to those who are vulnerable and in distress and in a difficult situation. They reach out one hand to those who are alone or exposed in other ways or who live in poverty and poverty, both in Sweden and in other countries. That was good, but it surprises me a little that the Left Party and Ulla Andersson in this pandemic are proposing that the gift tax deduction should be removed. We know that many organisations that work with fundraising and that rely on private donations have seen very positively on this deduction. Individuals have also used the deduction to increase their giving to these organizations. I would like to know how you are thinking on this issue on the part of the Left Party. Is there not a risk that giving will actually be reduced, thus making the situation more difficult for aid organisations, aid organisations and other organisations working for people in a vulnerable situation?
i-fc33ce39966def79-227	Mr President, I would like to It was a fruitful and good collaboration. It was a pity, however, that the proposal did not go through; it would have been very much needed. Unfortunately, I believe that more such initiatives will be needed, because it does not look exactly like this is easing at the moment. With regard to the tax and the so-called gift deduction, we believe that it is very good that people donate money to various forms of charitable organisations or to other organisations. I do it myself, and I never use the gift allowance for it. I think people should do it whether they get tax deductions for it or not. I do not think it is reasonable to have lower taxes for giving money to a charity. I think that we should simply have equal tax on equal income and think it is a reasonable way to work. I think that through political and democratic decisions we should allocate taxpayers' money that comes in to the state and not hand it over to individuals in the way that is done with the gift deduction. I think that is a line that it is reasonable to maintain even at this point. However, I think that civil society needs more money – not least, we have recently seen that the sports movement needs it.
i-fc33ce39966def79-231	Mr President, I would like to I have respect for the ideological position that Ulla Andersson puts forward here – although I absolutely do not agree with that, I have respect for the reasoning. But the Left Party wisely makes some exceptions to its usual ideological production in connection with the pandemic. Their budget is somewhat less anti-nutritive than normal. The Left Party does not make some of the charges they tend to impose on the business community and has also talked about this in various interviews. Therefore, I would have hoped that you in the Left Party would be prepared to make the same exception for a civil society that sees significant concerns about the financing of the crisis, including from private giving. The question is: why for business but not for these organisations?
i-fc33ce39966def79-233	Mr President, I would like to The economic policy of the Left Party is very much about promoting and creating jobs. We are investing a great deal – even more so now in the crisis – in education and infrastructure. These are quite tangible ways of creating more jobs and creating more jobs for companies, so I strongly oppose Jakob Forssmed's introduction. There is, of course, reason to change its policy if there is a deep crisis, and we have done so on various points. For example, we are waiting a year to propose an increase in corporate tax to the level that existed before the last reduction because we think it is more reasonable to do so later. We also think it is reasonable that Sweden actually taxes people with high incomes more. Many of these people are corporate owners, speaking of 3:12 rules. We also think that it is reasonable to help civil society in different ways, in other ways than through a tax cut for those who give.
i-fc33ce39966def79-237	Mr President, I would like to We remain in a difficult and vulnerable position. When we meet for discussion and debate here today, what you might call the invisible enemy is on the way forward. Our highly valued freedoms, communities and relationships have been curtailed. Loved spouses, children, parents, and friends have been lost to the disease. Many have struggled at the front line for a long time and are tired. This applies first and foremost to the health care staff, who work around the clock to protect life and health. Thank you for your enormous efforts! But it also applies to all others who make society continue to function around our workplaces, in civil society and in Association Sweden, who, although they themselves are bleeding in the wake of the crisis, continue to change to extend a hand tirelessly to those in need. This also applies to all entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who have fought in a special way for their life's work, for their countryside, for their employees and for their ideas. We can all, not least in this House, be inspired by those who are now making great efforts to do what is incumbent upon us here. Mr President, I would like to Society – all together – and political leadership need to face the pandemic in a spirit characterized by the classic cardinal dyds. First of all, it is about justice – not letting anyone carry too much weight and keeping everyone's equal value high, regardless of the situation in life and even when the circumstances are tough. Secondly, it is about courage – about showing civil courage and integrity. Right now, I guess it's to be able to endure and not seek ways to do less than is necessary. Thirdly, it is a matter of moderation and of allowing reason in the form of recommendations and guidelines to take precedence over one's own – at present too far-reaching – desires, even if they were previously very normal. Fourthly, it is a question of practical wisdom and of engaging with a kind of critical rationalism, seeking the best solutions and questioning but above all taking responsibility. These four classical virtues have the Christian tradition strengthened and supplemented with the virtue of love, which enriches the community, not least with uninterested solidarity and mercy. We have seen this during the pandemic, and we need to see it. All of this may seem obvious, but we have seen an over-explicit example of the consequences when political leadership – the outgoing US presidency – is almost consistently alienating itself from these virtues. Mr President, I would like to We are facing major challenges in our country. We are now debating the budget for 2021, a kind of business plan for Sweden. The policy now has three main tasks: Firstly, immediate crisis management, coping with life and health and the urgent economic consequences of increased spread of infection, reinforced recommendations and regulations. Secondly, support for recovery in order to prevent unemployment from getting stuck, so that municipalities and regions are not forced to make cuts that deepen the crisis and to seize the opportunity to bring forward sensible investments in things that need to be made later, both public investment and promoting business investment. Thirdly, tackling key societal problems. Large ones existed before the coronapandemia, and in several cases these problems have worsened. Reforms are now needed to increase security and combat crime, to cope with health care and reduce ill health, to improve care for the elderly and the conditions for its staff and to enable jobs to grow for all and especially for those in vulnerable positions. This is central to maintaining the trust that is so important also for a functioning economy. And Sweden has to do all three tasks at the same time. The government has to do that, but you don't. Even if the government has done some good in emergency crisis management, it is also clear that the management has been edged by slowness that is not good enough. The government has had to be dragged and baxed by the Riksdag to introduce some of the business support that we now see coming into place. However, some companies and employees have not benefited from support, resulting in damage to jobs and businesses. The budget that goes beyond the urgency that we have to take a position on today is, in my view, lacking a common direction for the January parties. It blurs the line of work in the recovery policy of the coming years. It is clear that there is an inability to give priority to law enforcement authorities and courts, and there is no sustainable plan to pay off the health debt that has been added to previously doubled care queues during the pandemic. Mr President, I would like to The January parties' budget is not good enough. I would therefore like to oppose the Christian Democratic Draft Budget with four key areas of reform. We now need reforms to prevent unemployment from getting stuck. Measures for public consumption and public investment, as proposed by the government, are reasonable and good in a recovery. Training places are important. But there is also a need for increased driving forces for work, increased demand for jobs and a policy to break passivity. We have proposed several such reforms: double job tax deductions on lower incomes for those who come from exclusion to work. A reform to increase demand by completely abolishing the employer's contribution for a year, as we propose with retroactive effect, so that every employer who has ever thought about hiring someone will do so now. A grant reform to break passivity. This is to mention a few. We need policies for a stronger justice system, a comprehensive addition of resources to all parts of the judiciary. We need creative solutions to bring more police officers into external service, more police assistants to free police officers from administration and an effort to reinstate retired investigators. In fact, we also want to test the idea of hiring Norwegian unemployed police officers in Sweden. We need more courts, more prosecutors and more prisons. We also need a plan for health debts and care queues, so that hope can eventually return to all those who have been in line illegally for a long time. We need a policy that quickly makes use of all available healthcare capacities, and we have several such proposals. To this we add a long-term reform of closing down the organisation with 21 different independent regions that will cope with all the abilities of care, but that clearly does not. In addition, we need to protect the staff of elderly care in the long term in order to improve the quality of the elderly and be able to recruit these important staff in the future. That is why we want to give more money than the government to elderly care, much more, despite the fact that this is one of the government's larger budget lines. But with our money, the municipalities will also be required to improve for the staff, increase their satisfaction, ensure that staff continuity is improved, work out the involuntary shared tours, which put such pressure on many in the care of the elderly, and ensure that leadership is strengthened with reasonable management responsibilities. We also need to make use of available resources in the construction sector to build more adapted housing for the elderly. But we also say that the medical quality of special accommodations must be improved. In our budget we prioritise more nurses and specialist nurses and that municipalities are given the opportunity to hire doctors. We need better care, more people who can put a drip or give oxygen in the care of the elderly, which is very important in the light of IVO's review. And we need to put strength behind the words. We also need to work persistently against the loneliness and isolation that have worsened with the pandemic but which had obscured the lives of many even before the pandemic with clear consequences in terms of mental and physical illness, depression, pain, heart attack and stroke. Mr President, I would like to At best, the pandemic sharpens our eyes to what is important. In the worst case, the difficulty and hopelessness overtakes and the restrictions that force us into narrower physical frames than normal also narrows our thoughts and shrinks our field of vision, so that we cannot see fellow humans in our country or in the world around us. I mean, it can't happen. In parallel, we need to see the outside world. We need to see those countries that cannot launch crisis packages, which lack a functioning healthcare system – a world where extreme poverty is increasing for the first time in 20 years and where hunger is now at the door of many. Let this also be found in our political thoughts and actions. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that we need each other and that the independence that we have overly cherished is not worth much unless it is surrounded by shared good values. If we stick to this through the crisis, trust can increase on the other side and confidence in the future can return. It is important that policies play their part in emergency crisis management for a strong recovery and in finding solutions to major societal problems. It can contribute to the faith in the future that we so badly need. I support Amendment No 4 by the Christian Democrats.
i-fc33ce39966def79-274	Mr President, I would like to There is one thing in the Christian Democrats' budget that actually puzzles me. The Christian Democrats want to reintroduce the custody allowance, albeit under a new name and in a new form, but still. Last time the Christian Democrats, together with the bourgeois parties, introduced the custody allowance, it became very clear that it was a women's trap. Foreign born women often stayed at home instead of getting a foot in the labour market. It deteriorated gender equality and the deterioration in integration in a very concrete way. For the children in these families, this also meant that the learning of the Swedish language was in danger of being delayed. Now we know that's what happened. The difference is that today we have even more women and even more children at risk of falling into exactly the same trap. My question to Jakob Forssmed and the Christian Democrats is therefore quite simple: what would suggest that the result would be different if you could do the same thing again?
i-NU8ghf7SoQKL7XDYSHPHa6	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Westlund, for the question! Unlike the Social Democrats, we believe in freedom of choice and flexibility for families with children. I think it is very important that this kind of opportunity exists when children are small, not least in order to be able to cope with a long working life and combine family and professional life. It is very important that there are opportunities to adapt life, because families are different and look different. There are children for whom it does not work as well as for other children to attend preschools when they are young, for example. That is why we think it is important that there is flexibility, and that is why we have a proposal on childcare allowances for children of our own. We have some limitations on this in order to counteract some of the effects that Åsa Westlund points out, for example that the household should not be able to be the subject of other grants in order not to be further locked into dependency and other things. In the evaluations that have been made and that economists have pointed out, the major effects of the custody grant that Åsa Westlund highlights have not been seen. It is an argument that is being made, but in reality it has not been used in the way Åsa Westlund describes in her reply. The question can therefore be put to Åsa Westlund : Which reforms does Åsa Westlund see before her that can increase families' freedom of choice, flexibility and the opportunity to have a good life and be able to combine work and family life even when the children are small?
i-fc33ce39966def79-282	Mr President, I would like to It is important that family policies also focus on promoting gender equality, facilitating the participation of all in society and improving integration. If the children see both parents go to work in the morning, they know that there is room for women in working life as well. Let us look in detail at how the municipal custody allowance you introduced worked. Just as Jakob Forssmed admits, it was not so popular. There were about a hundred municipalities and 91 per cent of women and 9 per cent of men. The proportion of women born abroad was almost double that of natives. In other words, the pattern is clear. The care allowance, or childcare allowance as you call it now, is increasing segregation. In other areas, you Christian Democrats often talk about better integration. Why are you making an exception for women?
i-fc33ce39966def79-286	Mr President, I would like to We don't. We have a lot of proposals for women to get to work faster. Our policy is very much about it. We also have strong proposals to develop language preschools to reach the children that we have seen during your government period do not have sufficient language skills when they start school. It is a major failure of the government that it looks so bad and that insufficient reforms for this have come to light. Åsa Westlund prefers to point to a rather small reform that for some families with children meant increased opportunity and flexibility. I think it was 7 per cent of foreign born women who had the opportunity to get custody allowance that also used it against just over 4 per cent of Swedish-born. The difference existed, but it was not as massive as Åsa Westlund shows. It is always possible to point to other people's reforms when you want to turn the light away from your own failure.
i-fc33ce39966def79-290	Mr President, I would like to Now I've lost count of how many times I've sprinkled my hands, but many are. It is usually nice to debate with Jakob Forssmed even though we are quite rarely in agreement. But let's see where we land today. If you go to the hospital with an infected finger, no one would suggest amputation. But with teeth, that's how it's gonna be. For many cannot afford to fix their teeth, but live with a glitch where they would have been. Others are given a bridge, and yet another is given an implant. Everything depends on your income. This is not the case in health care. If I have a sore throat, the doctor won't ask me what I can afford. But that's what it looks like when it comes to teeth. The big question is why it should look like that. The Left Party has investigated what it would cost to introduce a high cost protection of SEK 2 000 per year. This would afford many people to go to the dentist and have their teeth fixed in the best way. It would cost roughly like a check, about 5 billion a year. I would think that the cost will be slightly higher at the beginning because of neglected care, but ultimately it will be preventive work that reduces costs.
i-fc33ce39966def79-295	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats have worked for improved high-cost protection in dental care. We did that when we had the Ministry of Social Affairs under the alliance government. Improvements were introduced in 2007, and then further improvements were made later in the mandate. So in relation to what it was like in the past, it has improved. One can always discuss whether it should be improved in the future. There is, of course, a logic in what Ulla Andersson says about teeth as part of the body, and that can be considered when it comes to more areas. However, the purpose of Ulla Andersson's speech is, above all, to attack grids, and that is directly inappropriate. This is a sector where black jobs have become white and where people have been allowed to enter Swedish social security systems in order to obtain protection in the event of unemployment, illness or other distresses. You get a secure job instead of an insecure job. This has meant a lot to many of those who have received this type of work. It has also provided relief for hard - pressed families of young children. Women have also been able to make a career more easily and take on more in the world of work. In this way, it has also contributed to greater equality. I am happy to discuss the future of dental care and what we can do further, but not by attacking a reform that gives both work and other positive effects.
i-fc33ce39966def79-300	Mr President, I would like to In the case of doing black jobs white, it has been estimated that the cost of black jobs has been reduced by some 60 million thanks to the grid, and the reform costs 5 billion. It's a very small change. Moreover, these jobs give few people the opportunity to make a serious living. But I'm not going to discuss it. What I did was compare two costs in the budget. Politics is about prioritising. For us, it is more important that people can afford to go to the dentist than to receive cleaning allowance from the wealthy. PRO has asked many older ones if they can afford to go to the dentist, and many answer no. Above all, the elderly with a pension of less than 250 000, and a large majority of these, of course, are women. Yes, the Christian Democrats made a change, but still a lot of people are forced to give up dental care. Who can afford to cough up 14,000 to fix your teeth? Yes, it's not a single woman, a nurse or a caretaker. Why should it look like this? Why do you give away dental care for everyone?
i-fc33ce39966def79-304	Mr President, I would like to It is basically a matter of priorities. In our budget, we are now investing a great deal of resources in grazing the long queues of care and in strengthening an elderly care that currently needs very large supplements. I'm happy to discuss dental care later, but this is what we consider urgent. We are strengthening the economy for the elderly. In the Pensions Group, we have pushed forward substantial improvements in guarantee pension and housing supplement. We further strengthen the housing supplement in our budget. We are proposing permanent reinforcements of the housing allowance for families with children, which reach the most vulnerable families with children. The government's reinforcement was temporary and removed at the turn of the year. We want to make a permanent reinforcement. We lower the tax on those who have sickness and activity benefits, and we raise the guarantee level for them. It's one of the things we do for people to have a little better opportunity, also for dental care.
i-fc33ce39966def79-309	Mr President, I would like to Sweden and large parts of the world are in a very serious situation. The spread of infection is again high, and the pandemic is far from over. That is why we must all continue to take responsibility for keeping the spread of the disease down. We must continue to follow the advice and recommendations of our authorities, and we must cancel, cancel or postpone what we have planned – because we know that it saves lives on a loved parent, a loved child, or a close friend. In addition, many in health care work extra hard to provide the best care for those affected and to prevent the elderly from becoming ill. We are deeply grateful to them. Madam President, I would like The pandemic has also hit many hard economically. That's it. To be clear and straightforward: no government in any country will be able to save all jobs or businesses in this crisis. But thanks to Sweden entering the crisis with a strong economy, the government in broad political collaboration with the other parties has been able to act forcefully to save people's lives and health while protecting Swedish jobs and Swedish companies. In total, after today's debates, we have dealt with 12 additional amending budgets during the year. We have decided on measures for over SEK 200 billion and many more billion in credits and guarantees. It's been effective. Only short-term lay-offs currently involve more than half a million Swedes, who have been able to lose their jobs instead of working hours. It is easy to see the importance it has had for all individuals and their families in terms of financial security, but also for the many companies that have been able to retain qualified staff in this way. Madam President, I would like The budget proposal for 2021 contains new investments of approximately SEK 105 billion. It contains both temporary measures to create jobs here and now as well as long-term reforms to solve the societal challenges of climate threats, crime, welfare shortages and economic inequality that we already had before the pandemic. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson has been clear from the first day of the pandemic: money must not, should not and will not stand in the way of the important work of healthcare and care. Therefore, during the year, the government has compensated the municipal sector for all extraordinary healthcare and care costs due to the Corona virus. We are now also providing healthcare with 4 billion over the next two years in order to manage the healthcare debt that has been built up with planned operations and treatments being postponed. At the same time, we are making major general additions to welfare. It's important. If the government had not covered the local government's tax losses in the crisis, municipalities and regions would now have to lay off staff. It would have been bad for all those who had been directly affected by unemployment, but also for all of us, for those students who need the staff at school and for those patients who need care more than ever. During the pandemic, it has also become even clearer that the quality of care for the elderly needs to be improved. The elderly who need support in everyday life should be met by staff they know, who have time to talk for a while and who have both knowledge and other conditions to be able to provide care of high quality. It goes hand in hand with better conditions for staff. As of next year, we are therefore investing SEK 4 billion per year in improving the quality of care for the elderly. We also continue with the Elderly Care Lift, which gives the staff the chance to strengthen their skills. Madam President, I would like We also have a historic opportunity at this point to speed up climate change and create the green jobs of the future. A few weeks ago we were able to read in Dagens Nyheter about the billion-dollar investment that Scania is now making in Södertälje. This makes me extremely happy and proud when Swedish companies see the green transition as an opportunity, especially when they belong to a sector that has historically had high emissions. Sometimes social support is also needed for investment to take place. This is now happening all over the country via the so-called Climate Scene, which we are proposing to strengthen and extend. The industrial life is expanding. I have noted that more than the government now sees it as important support, but not all. We are also introducing a green state credit guarantee for major industrial investments. We add money to energy efficiency and renovate multi-detached buildings in our million-programmed areas. At the same time, we are increasing investment support, so that rental apartments and student housing with reasonable rents are built. We add nearly 10 billion to make Sweden the world's first fossil-free welfare country. With the budget proposal, we also strengthen security and the possibility of a transition for those who are now unemployed. The increased remuneration levels in the unemployment fund are extended until 2022. At the same time, we strengthen the opportunities to educate and replenish with knowledge at all stages of life and in all parts of the country. We invest heavily in more higher education, polytechnics, labour market training, extra services and introductory jobs. Madam President, I would like We are continuing the fight against the long-term social problems, not least crime. The Police Authority will be given increased resources to reach the target of 10,000 more police employees by 2024. The Prison Service, the National Board of Forensic Medicine and the Migration Courts are being expanded. We must also strangle the supply of money to criminal networks. We are therefore strengthening a number of authorities to work systematically and harder to stop abuse of our welfare systems. We strengthen the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority in order for them to work better against money laundering. The Tax Agency receives increased resources to combat tax evasion and organised crime, including efforts to combat errors in civil records. Of course, that is not enough. We're supposed to be hard on the crimes, but also on the causes of the crimes. That's why we're strengthening relapse prevention and defector activities. We are also continuing, as I said earlier, with very great welfare efforts. As police officers often point out, there must be well-functioning social services and schools to stop recruitment for crime. Madam President, I would like It is not possible to account for all parts of the historically large investments that are now being made. However, I would like to make one more point, and that is the situation of pensioners in our country. All those who have been involved in building our country should have the right to a safe old age. In addition to a historic investment in care for the elderly, we are therefore now raising pensions with a new pension supplement, and the last step is removed by the unfair tax gap between employees and pensioners created by previous governments. Madam President, I would like The budget bill is based on cooperation between the January parties, but during this year we have had a good collaboration with more parties in the Swedish parliament. It is a huge strength for Sweden that we together are able to take responsibility in such a crisis. But of course there are differences. The Moderates and Christian Democrats do not now give priority to security for people affected by unemployment or illness. Above all, the Moderates, but also the Christian Democrats, want to reduce unemployment. Both parties want to reintegrate the pre-stock into health insurance. And no one is surprised when I tell them that their draft budget would strengthen inequality in Sweden. The Swedish Democrats want to give everything to everyone here and now, which of course is neither effective nor responsible to taxpayers. If the Swedish Democrats were to decide, Sweden would also clearly throw off its leadership shirt on the climate issue and thus risk both our children's future and Swedish competitiveness in the future. The options are clear. Against our broad cooperation stands a right-wing conservative bloc without a common plan to take Sweden out of the crisis. Madam President, I would like The pandemic is far from over. But Sweden is better equipped to meet it than most comparable countries. Even before the crisis, the Social Democratic-led government had expanded the knowledge boost with nearly 100 000 training places, and 350 000 more were in work compared to when Stefan Löfven took office as Prime Minister. Thanks to our saving in the barns during the good years, we were able to enter the crisis with a very low public debt. Years of responsible economic policy have given Sweden a position of strength, which we will now use to overcome the crisis here and now and at the same time invest in what builds Sweden strong and sustainable in the longer term. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations and motions.
i-fc33ce39966def79-329	Madam President, I would like I have forgotten to welcome Åsa Westlund to the Finance Committee and our budget debates. Madam President, I would like Åsa Westlund seems quite satisfied, despite the fact that Sweden now after six years – the government is at its seventh – has an incredibly high unemployment rate. Many of us remember the goal set by the Social Democrats: that unemployment in Sweden should be the lowest in the whole of Europe. So, how's it going? Sweden now has one of the highest unemployment rates in the EU. This is not because of the pandemic, but because the Social Democrats lost years of prosperity and refused to implement important structural reforms that make it more profitable to work, makes you learn Swedish and so on. Madam President, I would like The saddest part of this is the very high rate of long-term unemployment. Here are people who have been hidden and forgotten in the statistics, rarely have contact with Arbetsförmedlingen and do not get the support and help they now need. To break the record in long-term unemployment should never be satisfied with the Social Democrats. There are many tools in the toolbox to help the one who is far away to come back. One of the most effective support is new start jobs. Research has shown that. But since Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister, new jobs have been halved. My question to Åsa Westlund is: Why are you cutting down on the most effective tool for those who are farthest away?
i-fc33ce39966def79-333	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elisabeth Svantesson! I would like to thank you for the opportunity to practice here in the speaker's chair in the fiscal debates. It goes without saying that for a social democrat, unemployment is not good, and it is particularly worrying about long-term unemployment. At the same time, we must remember that at the moment we have a pandemic. Before entering the crisis, we still had a higher level of employment than when Stefan Löfven took over. More people have come to work under this government. It is important for each individual. Then we need to do more. There the government has made extensive efforts. This applies to extra services that give employees in welfare extra help in difficult times but also a chance for many people to enter the labour market. Unlike Elisabeth Svantesson, we do not believe that people who suffer unemployment because the factory is simply burning down should have economic poverty. We want a system where everyone, regardless of where they live, can feel secure in that we are there together and that we are helping each other financially but also with workable efforts.
i-fc33ce39966def79-337	Madam President, I would like I do not know whether I should interpret this as meaning that the long-term unemployed will now also have higher levels in the compensation system. It was precisely the long-term unemployed that I asked about. What is so troubling when you get into long-term unemployment and into a recession is that you risk getting even further in the back of the line. It's getting even harder. Hopelessness enters. It was tough before. But when you see others becoming unemployed that are closer to the labour market, you lose hope. Here there are working tools. New start job is one of those. It is incomprehensible to me why this government has halved new start jobs, which are the most effective of all measures. It is also incomprehensible why they did not take the opportunity when the big refugee wave came in 2015 to make radical and important changes with language requirements, grant ceilings and a grant reform to ensure that the drive to work increases. My question remains as to why the new jobs have been removed. Åsa Westlund spoke about equality in her speech, and then I can say that the best equality is that more people get a job to go to. The biggest differences are between those who have a job and those who do not have a job. We have to help people get to work. Those who need most support are those who have been away from the labour market for a long time. They need broad support from Arbetsförmedlingen, and then we know that new start jobs are such a tool. I want answers to the question why they have been halved during Stefan Lövven's time as Prime Minister.
i-fc33ce39966def79-344	Madam President, I would like Now Elisabeth Svantesson said that Arbetsförmedlingen has a very important role to play in getting the long-term unemployed back to work. That's right. Then it is very strange that we have a situation in which the M's and KD's budget that went through, the so-called napkin sketch, completely destroyed the work of the Employment Service. It confronted them with a huge reorganisation that occupied them rather than having been able to concentrate on helping those who need their support. That is why I am pleased that we have more money for labour market policy in our budget than the Moderates have and that we are also ensuring that this aid is available throughout the country. No matter where you are in the country, you must have the right to support and help from Arbetsförmedlingen.
i-fc33ce39966def79-346	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! This is a worrying and serious time for Sweden. It's about all the people who work in health care. It is the doctors, nurses, nurses and carers who each day meet with patients and expose themselves to the danger associated with the Corona virus. It is about all those who are doing their utmost in welfare to ensure that society works despite the fact that we are in the midst of a global pandemic. This is about all those who have lost their job since the pandemic started. It is they who had the temporary job, many young people, and who lost that job and the connection to the labour market that they had. It's about all the entrepreneurs who now see their life's work go to pieces. It is all the people who have built up a business for very many years who, because of this virus, can now not have that activity or who are struggling every day to make it work. There are so many people who are doing so much work at this difficult moment for Sweden. You all deserve a big thank-you for the struggle and the work you are doing. Madam President, I would like The overall task of politics right now must be that as many people as possible have a job to go to. Nothing is more dangerous to a society than that such a crisis – which is a health crisis but also an economic crisis – means mass unemployment where people completely lose their footing and end up outside. We know from previous crises that unemployment risks getting stuck, that people get stuck in dependency and never get into the community of the workplace. People lose foothold, self-esteem, and the feeling of freedom grows strong. It must be vigorously combated. I am very impressed and very proud of the efforts made in Swedish welfare. I am also very impressed and proud of the incredible efforts that many of Sweden's entrepreneurs have made during this crisis. It's about the attitude of tying your fist and fighting, even though things are fucked up. That's the attitude. We are now changing our business. The customers can't come to us. We find other business models and other ways to meet customers. In this way, we will ensure that companies and jobs can remain. It is an impressive ability of many of Sweden's entrepreneurs in this situation. In recent weeks, the situation has worsened. In recent weeks, restrictions have also become tougher. For some, the restrictions today are tougher than they were last spring. This means that the budget that we are dealing with in this House today is not the answer to all the problems that Sweden has right now. We're going to have to do more. We will have to do more to ensure that welfare meets its mission and, above all, we will have to do more to avoid unemployment and ensure that companies can overwinter this crisis. More action will be needed. We will need to extend several of the aid that we already have today. This will mean that we will have to give more companies the opportunity to postpone their tax. This will mean that we need to stimulate business in different ways so that we can avoid unemployment at this tough time. More crisis measures will simply be needed later in the next few months to ensure that Sweden stays together and ensure that as many people as possible have a job to go to. Madam President, I would like Now that we are in the midst of the crisis, we need to see what is coming after the crisis. I believe that what is waiting after the crisis is a need to modernise Sweden. We should not be a country that competes with low wages. We will be a competitive country by developing and producing the latest services, the latest robots and the latest cars. That is what makes our society so strong and that we are a country of prosperity. This modernisation is about seeing the value of new technologies. It is about society and the state stimulating, that companies invest and that in this way we can contribute to the climate change that the world and Sweden so badly need. That is why this budget, which the Liberals have been involved in negotiating, also includes efforts to reduce corporate tax which will allow us to invest in new technologies and also in climate change. It means reducing taxes on low incomes which make it attractive to bring those who need to enter the labour market. We make it more attractive to hire young people by reducing the employers' contribution for young people in the coming years. We are also investing in climate action that makes us contribute to the transformation of our country. All this we are doing to modernise Sweden, to ensure that after the crisis we are very strong and then can ensure that as many people as possible have a job to go to. Madam President, I would like There is nothing more important for the future than a school that works – a school that gives all children, whether they have poor or rich parents, the chance to realize their life dreams. This is possible through school – through high expectations, by girls not having to be pillows of conflict in the classroom and by those who are good at school having to face challenges and those who are struggling get the help they need to learn enough. Then bureaucracy must be reduced. Then teachers must be allowed to be teachers. Then bureaucrats must step back and teachers must be given the opportunity to take a step forward. Then we have to make sure there's enough money in school. We must ensure that it is invested early in preschool so that as many children as possible get the conditions they need in particular. Madam President, I would like This is also linked to one of the greatest societal challenges of our time – that we break segregation, that we get a society that stays together. When Stockholm Municipality, I think it was, recently measured how many words in the Swedish language a five- or six-year-old can be seen a monumental difference between those who have grown up in Sweden with parents who are Swedish and those who have grown up in Sweden with parents who were born elsewhere. That difference is monumental. If you do not know Swedish when you are five, six or seven years old, the risk is that you never really get into Swedish society. The school is also about creating a society that holds together, to create a society where we break segregation, to create a society where all children have the chance to realize their chances of life and their dreams. Then the focus must be on the Swedish language. Then it is not time for cultural relativism. Then it's not time for postmodernism. Then it is clear that: Swedish language applies. Learning Swedish is important for everyone, not least for our children. Then it is important that all children attend preschool as early as possible. It is important that we do what we can so that as many children as possible get the right conditions from the start. If we do not, we risk creating a society that is torn apart, a society with huge gaps. And to be honest, the biggest gap is not that there is a millionaire in Djursholm. Actually, that's not the problem. The problem is that children grow up in environments where you do not learn Swedish. That is the problem – that people grow up and don't get into the labour market, don't get jobs, don't feel empowerment, can't support themselves. That's the problem – not that Niklas Zennström has created Skype and earned a lot of money from it. It's even a pretty good invention, and it's even kind of fun that it's a Swede who's come up with it. Behind this rhetoric of class struggle is the time for Swedish politics to look forward now, to focus on what really makes our society stick together and can create jobs for more people. That's what needs to be the focus. Madam President, I would like For a very long time, under alliance governments and the latest governments, Sweden has been saving in the barns to be able to use the money when there is a crisis. That's very good. It is also important in this situation that society has the ability to look after those who are in the toughest position right now. Some who have the toughest right now are those with disabilities, those who are within the LSS, those who have suffered for a number of years from the previous red-green government's cuts and who are now facing a brutal reality. In this budget, thanks to the Liberals, there is an investment in the LSS which means that the so-called flat-rate payment is listed at a level that we have not seen in very many years. It is a first step – Liberals are not satisfied – in building back LSS to what LSS once was: a reform for the weakest in society who have been affected by the accident of having a disability and should have the support of society. It is to make sure that Sweden stays together – to focus on jobs, to focus on school and to focus on having a society that stays together. This is what makes Sweden rise through the crisis and also becomes a modern welfare country in the long term.
i-fc33ce39966def79-371	Madam President, I would like The liberals of a constant class struggle, a struggle for the prosperous and healthy to always come first and get it even better. At one time, however, the Liberals were actually a party of social liberal pathos. To this day, I remember Lars Leijonborg's agony at making the deterioration of health insurance and how he stood in this House and excused the fact that the day health insurance goes in surplus again, we will put back the deterioration. The truth of the matter was that health insurance did not even then go in deficit, which, as far as I know, has not since. But it's another discussion. Apparently, a lot has happened in the Liberals since then. A lot of water has run under the bridges. With Liberal policy, sick people are constantly denied sickness benefit. This year it is estimated that 21 000 people will be denied sickness benefit at the 180-day limit. The big increase came before covid among people with cancer diseases, heart disease, ME, burnout and mental diagnoses, who instead of receiving compensation from health insurance are forced to live on their relatives – I do not know how many women I have met who are forced to do so – or are forced to go to the social services. I referred earlier to the fact that the residents of the entire municipality of Eksjö go to the social welfare office. That's the size of the group that's forced to go to the social services, even though they're on sick leave with a medical certificate. It doesn't make sense. My question to Mats Persson is: Will Mats Persson make sure that there is a change in the regulations so that you are not insured to fictitious jobs in the labour market at 180 days? And will that apply to all diagnoses, not just covids?
i-fc33ce39966def79-375	Madam President, I would like Surely this is the time for a history description. There's a person named Jan Edling. He used to be a LO economist. In 2005, he wrote a report pointing out that sick leave in Sweden was very high. It was when Sweden was the world's sickest welfare country. He was fired or chose to leave LO because LO wanted to cover his report and not publish it—I hope you remember this. In the report he noted that it was very strange that people in Västerbotten and Norrbotten were so much sicker than people in Jönköping, despite the fact that all the regions had industries and looked quite similar. There were regional differences in Sweden that could not be explained," said Jan Edling. That report was darkened. He was never allowed to publish it. He chose to leave his job, or he got fired; it matters less. Then we all remember the reform carried out by the Alliance in 2006. Sweden no longer has the world's sickest population. We've got sickening down. It's important, I think, to include that history description. This was then a very big social problem – so big and so hot politically that the then LO leadership chose to cover up a report that one of its employees wanted to publish. Now we have the covid situation, and there is a majority in the Swedish parliament that wants to deal with that situation for those patients who now have problems with health insurance. Of course we have to find a solution to that. Liberals will definitely help us to find a good line because, like all the other parties in the Swedish Parliament, we want to do something about this problem. Of course we will find a solution to that problem. It must never be that we come back to a situation where LO must once again have dark reports from its own associates. We never want to end up there again. We never want to end up again in that Sweden has the world's sickest population.
i-fc33ce39966def79-381	Madam President, I would like It is quite typical of the Liberals to blame LO for losing their social liberal pathos. With Liberal policy, the sick should therefore be left without sickness benefit. Actually, that's what's happening. This year it is estimated that 21 000 sick people with a medical certificate will be denied sickness benefit. It cannot be reasonable that only one group – precisely those with covid – should have some relief in the regulatory framework. This affects everyone who is ill with various forms of diagnosis. Why is it more important to help them with covid than those with cancer? Why is it more important to help them with covid than those with ME? Why is it more important to help them with covid than people with worn - out bodies? Why should some be referred to fictitious jobs while others should not? Why should those who work with covids not be covered by this change if they burn themselves out at work? Why do the Liberals not stand up for health insurance that provides financial security and helps the sick back to work within a reasonable time? Where have you lost your social liberal pathos?
i-fc33ce39966def79-383	Madam President, I would like It's fascinating how interested you are in Liberals' social liberal pathos, Ulla Andersson! It was the Left Party that supported the government that cut down on the LSS during the last parliamentary term with clinical precision, which affected the weakest groups in society. It was the Left Party that supported the government that did it. It might be a good time to remember that. When it comes to health insurance, I think it should be an insurance that works so that you get the right to support from society but that there is also a focus on getting back into the labour market. One should have the right to rehabilitation and the right to help to get back into the labour market so that we do not end up in a situation where people get stuck in passive, long sick leave and get sick leave year after year. We have had that situation, and we do not want to come back to it, because it will be costly for society and also costly for the many people who must never be part of the community of the workplace. The focus of the policy must be that when you fall ill you should get help and the opportunity to get back to your workplace or back to the labour market in general depending on the individual situation you have yourself. There must be an individual assessment. Now we have a situation linked to covid, which we obviously have to deal with, and there is a majority in Parliament to do something about it. I welcome this, and the Liberals support it. Then we will see exactly what solution that will be to this problem. We will see which majorities can be formed in Parliament linked to this.
i-fc33ce39966def79-388	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mats Persson, for your commitment to children and languages! This is an incredibly important issue on which we could have a whole debate. I'm going to ask you something completely different. Just before the restrictions took off again, Madam President, I travelled around the country to talk to so-called ordinary people. I do not like that concept, but it is people who have contacted me because they want to talk seriously about the state of the country. In very many cases, no matter where I was, the questions were about security. You feel insecure in Sweden and do not recognize Sweden. I can see that this particular issue has been given very little space in this budget debate, but it is very central. My simple question is: if you choose to have budget cooperation and broader cooperation with a party even though it has failed to maintain security in Sweden and submit a budget of 105 billion in investments – how can it be that you do not even succeed in ensuring that the authorities in the judiciary get the resources that they have wanted and that they need? The D.A. got too little money, and the E.R.A. got too little money. Once again, authorities do not get the money they need to do their job. That is to miss out on the most important thing, I think, Madam President, when you do not ensure that the authorities that are actually involved in helping to maintain security get the resources they need. That is my question to Mats Persson.
i-fc33ce39966def79-393	Madam President, I would like I fully share Elisabeth Svantesson's concern for insecurity that is growing stronger. It is about everything from house crime to brutal abuse, juvenile robbery and the really serious crime, which is incredibly serious and worries me a lot. The budget that lies here contains a great deal of effort on the judicial system. There is now an extension of the judiciary – it has been for many years when both alliance government and previous governments have expanded the judiciary in different ways. But much more needs to be done. When you send money to various authorities, you need to examine very carefully whether that money is enough. There are authorities that have surpluses for some years and can use that money the following year. You must constantly look carefully at: What does the actual need look like? I think the assessment that has been made now seems quite reasonable, but should it turn out that there are certain authorities that need additional funding, the Liberals are prepared to spend that money. At the same time, there is the possibility for authorities, and the Prosecutor's Office is such an example, to make use of money you have previously and the possible surpluses you have. But it's something we have to follow very closely. We must not end up in a situation where we are cutting back on the judiciary because the needs are very great. So we are prepared to do more if necessary. We are not making that assessment at the moment, but should it be necessary later, we are prepared to act.
i-fc33ce39966def79-398	Madam President, I would like That was not really the answer to the question, because it has turned out that there is too little resources. These authorities I mentioned have come with requests. For those who see this debate and wonder how it works, I can tell you that you tell the government what you need to complete your mission, and both the Prosecutor's Office and the Swedish Financial Crime Authority have too little money to do their job. It was very clear, and that is why it makes no sense to me to make huge investments of 105 billion on various things. I have said before that I partly think it is the wrong bets, because it is not the full time for restarting. Nevertheless, I cannot understand why the authorities that need resources should not be allowed to do so. This is not about big money in relation to the huge investments that are being made. If you are really going to take the task of repressing crime seriously, you have to ensure that these authorities have the resources they need to carry out their missions.
i-fc33ce39966def79-401	Madam President, I would like I do not perceive myself and Elisabeth Svantesson as having different opinions, but I understand that we feel the same way. The justice system needs more money. It is now being pushed to money, and I think that is good and important. We do not believe that more money needs to be made available at the moment. Should it prove necessary, we are prepared to do so. We need to follow it very closely. We had a discussion about the activities of the courts about a year ago. They warned that they would have to cut back on activities linked to the then budget. It never happened. This shows that it is important to follow developments closely. If there is a need to spend money, we do, but it may also be that this money is quite sufficient. The most important political message, I think, is that we are prepared to do what is necessary to repress crime. That is the most important political message.
i-MwvBhhjW8ND1DjEGt9o2Dq	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mats Persson, for your speech. To a very large extent, I share the social analysis and the importance of the problems we should address in the future. There I see that Mats Persson and I have a significant consensus, and that is positive when we find ways forward in Swedish politics. However, I would like to move from this a little bigger that Mr Mats talked about to more concrete policies in the budget and would like to raise the issue of the loneliness of the elderly. I have been critical of how the Liberals acted in the first amending budget, which was the first major budget that the January parties made together. The funds are being cut to improve the continuity of staff and to community values, which would work towards loneliness in the care of the elderly. Mats Persson was not responsible for the hearing at the time, so this cannot be recorded in his personal account. I have also seen that there has been a commitment from the Liberals to improving the continuity of staff and counteracting the loneliness of the elderly. That is why I am a little surprised that the budget does not have any major investments in this. Nor is it enough spent on older people's housing. We have an effort to ensure, for example, that all retirement homes can now get workable equipment and training to cope with video communication. Nor is such an effort in the budget. What I want to draw attention to is that the effort that has gone to civil society to make targeted efforts to the lone elderly ends in 2021 and is removed from 2022. I think this is strange, and it would be good if Mats Persson could now promise that it will remain.
i-fc33ce39966def79-409	Madam President, I would like First of all, I agree that care for the elderly is a policy area which I believe has been abused by national policies. There's been too little focus on that. One effect of this has been that the national governance of elderly care has been and is too small. We've seen the consequences of that during the co-width. It is quite clear that the municipalities need help, and there is a need to clarify which responsibilities apply between the state and the municipality. It is no coincidence that the spread of infectious diseases in nursing homes has been greater than it has been in health care. It is not a coincidence but depends on the national governance and how different it is in healthcare versus care for the elderly. National governance needs to be improved regardless of the technology or model chosen. You might land in spending more money on care for the elderly through general state subsidies, which I advocate and which are also part of the budget, or you might choose specific, targeted state grants – it is potato-potahto. Regardless of this, there needs to be more guidelines for how elderly care should look. I think loneliness is an important part of this. There needs to be more focus on breaking loneliness in different ways. Civil society plays an important role here, of course. I do not see before me that there will be a majority in the Swedish Parliament that wants to make civil society worse, but we will have to take the responsibility that needs to be taken. However, we will have to come back to the exact way in which it is to be done later.
i-fc33ce39966def79-413	Madam President, I would like This is one of the reasons why I bring this up with Mats Persson. I have previously pointed out things that have disappeared, which could have made a difference, without being replaced by anything else. That's why I'm bringing it up now. In the budget bill Mats Persson and the January parties wrote that the grant has met with great interest. It has made possible activities that would otherwise not have been undertaken. It says that the initiative continues until 2021. So it's 20 million. Wouldn't it be a good time to tell the organisations? You could have said that you see the problem, that you see the important activity and that you want it to continue. If you cannot give such a message now, I hope that you will be able to do so well in advance of the next budget proposal so that these organisations will not have to think about whether or not to continue their activities.
i-BBPN1mEVqBUR9dtbS4Rjqz	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your commitment, Jakob Forssmed! It is clear that policy needs to do more for elderly care in general, and not least for civil society. This effort is important, and we must closely monitor how the operations work, how they are received and how the operations are conducted. Then we will see how politics can support it. However, I believe that there is a broad majority in the Parliament for this policy to be supported. Not least, the Liberals will stand up for this in the future.
i-fc33ce39966def79-417	Madam President, I would like When 2020 is slowly coming to an end, there are probably many of us who are sitting with the feeling that this year has been unusually long. When we held the same kind of debate a year ago, I think none of us in this House could see in front of us what year lay ahead or what the next twelve months would mean for the world and for Sweden, for you and for me. People have become sick. Many have become so ill that they have needed care and have had to fight for their lives in the country's hard - pressed intensive care departments. Too many people have lost their lives. A collective concern for both health and economics has almost become a new normal state. However, there is no reason for concern about the funding of the care itself, as the state will cover the extra efforts made to combat the pandemic. This clear message has been extremely important because we have been able to get through this year together. Many have seen their companies move from profitable and well-functioning businesses to in many cases risk going under. People have lost their jobs, and others have had to work far too much. We long to hug our loved ones, those outside the absolute primary family. Now the spread of infection is increasing, and there is great concern about what a second wave of corona infection will mean for health care. We have to hold on and hold on. But in parallel with the concern about the pandemic itself, I feel, and certainly many with me, a great worry about what this is doing to us as a society and as a human being. The loneliness and vulnerability associated with the pandemic can be difficult to comprehend. In a completely new report, the City Mission provides a picture of how already vulnerable groups have been affected during the year and how poverty has grown. The report is a painful reading that calls for both reflection and action for those of us who have the power to do something about this. We in this House must never forget that what we do affects those who are in the most difficult situation. I would like to thank everyone in civil society who seeks out and supports those who are most lonely and vulnerable. The work they do saves lives. Today is the International Day against Violence Against Women. It's an opportunity for reflection. Since the turn of the millennium, more than 300 women have been murdered by their husband, ex-husband, or boyfriend. Isolation and economic pressure can increase the risks to women's security and life. We, as a society, must stand firmly on the side of vulnerable women. Madam President, I would like During the year, we have had to act quickly and forcefully to save businesses and people's livelihoods. Short-term lay-offs, increased unemployment insurance and increased public responsibility for sickness pay are just a few examples. We have also ensured that healthcare has the resources to continue their invaluable work. The efforts people make when they work in health care and care save lives. While they do, the rest of us have to do our best to help. During the spring, care made a change without its like. It was possible to steer the whole of Swedish society, but we need to do more to not end up there again. Welfare must be strengthened in the long term. Municipalities, regions, businesses and industries have been affected in various ways as a result of the pandemic. Revenues have slowed down, and the world has changed. In the face of this, neither the government nor the parliament have been left to handle. During the year, we have been ready to make the necessary decisions to save people's lives, health and livelihoods and to provide the means to get through the crisis. Action is needed here and now both to save what is saved can and to get the reels to spin again. Therefore, I get worried when I hear from my colleagues out in several municipalities that a lot of municipalities actually choose to put the money that has been distributed on high. That's not the point. This money will strengthen welfare, and it needs the same kind of leadership and creativity locally as we have shown here in Parliament. There are many of us who miss going to concerts, performances, cinemas and crowded sports games. The spread of infection is now increasing, and the conditions for culture and sport are getting worse again. They have been hit hard by the pandemic, and we have been providing support for several rounds. We will continue to support culture and sport in order to overcome the crisis and be able to re-emerge on the day it becomes possible. If culture is to remain, we must support the cultural creators behind it. We need a future to lag behind, and then there must be a bustling cultural life to enjoy and sports achievements to celebrate in large and small futures. Madam President, I would like The time to strengthen Sweden through large investments is now, and it is in the welfare and climate work that our common tax funds need to land. In parallel with the Corona crisis, the world has an increasingly acute climate crisis to deal with, and when economies are restarted, green investments must be given priority if we are to have an opportunity to achieve climate goals. The budget that we are now going to decide on is historic in scope and includes new reforms of more than 100 billion. It is absolutely right that we should pool our energies in this way, because the challenges we face are great. We shall continue to build prosperity and ensure that it covers everyone. We will ensure that Sweden becomes the world's first fossil-free welfare country. I am proud that this budget addresses these challenges. With this budget, we will take the next step in the green transformation of Sweden. We are increasing the involvement of biofuels in petrol and diesel, which means that the climate targets in the transport sector are within reach. We support the transformation of industry through a reinforced industrial life and green credit guarantees. Our policy has an effect. We received news the other day from LKAB, which plans to invest hundreds of billions of SEK to produce, among other things, a carbon-free iron sponge. When Mrs von der Leyen spoke about the state of the Union, she chose to highlight the Swedish Hybrid project and the potential of producing steel without coal. That makes you very proud, doesn't it? The representatives of the companies making these efforts are extremely clear that it is through collaboration with and support from the state that they get the power to make these investments in the future. The hope for the future that is now being spread in several places in Norrland is based on green politics. We are very good at environmental innovations in Sweden, but we are not as good at getting them out on a global market. Now the state will go in and guarantee climate investment for 50 billion over three years. This means that Swedish companies will dare to invest in the future. Swedish innovations will be able to contribute to emission reductions worldwide. The environmental taxes we raise allow for a green tax refund. Now we will reduce the tax for more than 7 million Swedes. Both those who work and those who have income from the social security systems are covered. In the green transition, no one should slip behind. During the pandemic we are many who spend a lot of time outdoors in the wonderful Swedish nature. We continue to strengthen the protection of valuable nature after the environmental slaughter of the right-wing parties. The nature we protect should also be accessible for visitors. We therefore invest in increasing the management of a valuable nature. These are initiatives that, among other things, go to hiking trails and provide better conditions for nature tourism and outdoor activities throughout the country. Madam President, I would like This is a year we're late to forget. It is the year when people changed their everyday lives, for their own sake but above all for everyone else's. It is the year when solidarity consisted of abstaining, postponing and cancelling. I hope that in the future we will look back on this year as the year when we dared to do the right thing – and not just what is easy. A year when we managed to move forward so that we could step up the crisis and make decisions that not only save us here and now, but that make us have a future to long for.
i-fc33ce39966def79-439	Madam President, I would like Karolina Skog and I, or the Green Party and the Moderates, have slightly different views on migration and immigration policy. It's not a secret. For example, I find it sad to see how to change the High School Act once again and make it even more generous and in this way really waters down Swedish asylum policy. However, I shall leave that particular issue to one side, because we are a long way off on immigration. We want a much lower level of immigration than we do today. What I still hope could unite us is the view of integration and the people who still get a yes and will stay in Sweden, which many have had for a long time. Many also come to work quickly and become part of the Swedish labour market. We must never forget that. But there is so much in integration policy that does not work. We have proposals in our budget for a grant reform that allows people to qualify into welfare systems – Göran Persson gave approval to it the other day – where we also say that they should have a grant ceiling. It should not pay off for a family that comes from another country and has several children to stay at home instead of taking a job, as is actually the case today. We also have proposals for language requirements. Sweden has no requirement whatsoever to learn Swedish today, something that I think is incredibly important. If you take part in a free education in SFI and receive compensation for it, it is reasonable that we require you to learn Swedish. We know that language is the key to entering the Swedish labour market. A subsidy reform with qualification, ceilings and language requirements is therefore something that we are pursuing. My question to Karolina Skog and the Green Party is: why can you not say yes to our proposals?
i-fc33ce39966def79-445	Madam President, I would like It is clear to me that the Green Party and the Moderates are far apart from each other in terms of both the view on migration and how we make integration effective. Our view of integration is based on man. We must look at those who come here, what they bring and how different they are. We believe that the work on integration must be much more individualised. I will mention a few things that we have worked for and which are now reality in the Christian Democrats. It is Swedish from day one, i.e. the opportunity to get Swedish already during the asylum period. Here, many non-profit organizations do a fantastic job of language training from day one. We also promote improved opportunities to get a job early. We want to let those who can in early. It is also important that we see that many who come here do so with great traumas and diseases. Then they must receive this support in order to start their journey into Swedish society. During our time in government, the time from coming to the Christian Democrats to being self-sufficient has decreased considerably. This is based on effective and powerful work, including seeing the resources of man from day one. The idea of qualifying into welfare is something completely different and for us completely alien. We will say no to that today and always.
i-fc33ce39966def79-451	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Karolina Skog thinks that Swedish integration policy is effective? I do not know how many parties in Parliament agree with that. There is no conflict about learning Swedish from the beginning. That goes without saying, and we pursued this in 2015 in negotiations with you, among others. The problem is that fundamental driving forces to enter the Swedish labour market need to change. If the cost of a failed immigration is to be reduced, more people need to get to work faster. It is not surprising that there are newcomers who have come into rapid economic recovery, but unemployment among immigrants has gone up to 20%. I can't call that efficiency. Language requirements are needed, there is a need for qualification and a grant ceiling is needed so that it always pays better to work than to be at home.
i-fc33ce39966def79-454	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Svantesson puts words in my mouth. I have never said that we are finished and should be satisfied with the work to develop integration and establishment in the Christian Democrats. But I note, with statistics, that what we deliver in the sense of measuring how long it takes for new arrivals to get into work is much better than what it was like when Elisabeth Svantesson left the government. In the future, we want to develop the establishment programme. We think it was a good measure, but it needs to be developed. The commitment and responsibility of the state for people needing different time for different measures need to be increased. It is the focus for us so that there will be a better establishment in the Christian Democrats.
i-fc33ce39966def79-456	Madam President, I would like I thank Karolina Skog for her speech. I was also going to talk about efficiency. When you spend as much money as the government does, it is incredibly important to keep an eye on the effect of the taxes. It doesn't matter if you spend 100, 200 or 300 billion SEK if it doesn't work out in real life. I thought I'd bring up the climate life. It's one of the Green Party's big ventures. We've talked about it several times before. The Institute of Economics has said that it is ineffective. The Swedish National Audit Office reviewed it two years ago and came to the same conclusion. Yet there will be an additional 100 billion for next year and the next year. One business that has received a lot of support from the Climate Klivet are charging poles. Earlier this year Svenska Dagbladet made a review of these. They looked at the 29 housing associations and communities that have received the most money since 2015 from the Climate Act for this. They had received 29 million to set up 2,300 charging poles. When Svenska Dagbladet's article was published, 1 300 were set up for use, but according to the newspaper review, only 60 of these were used for electric cars or charging hybrids. The calculation in the context of climate change is flat-rate. It was estimated that all the charging poles would achieve very large emission reductions, but in practice there was very little emission reductions as a result of the effort. How do you ensure that there will be a better effect on money now than it has become historical?
i-fc33ce39966def79-462	Madam President, I would like Climate change is a reform that has been in place for a few years. The system has been developed, among other things, after the Swedish National Audit Office's audits. It has been narrowed down, for example, so that fewer measures can be supported today than at the beginning. It is not a system in which we argue that it must look exactly the same as when it was launched. When there is criticism in connection with evaluations, there is a listen n they and a development. Having said that, climate change is a support that welcomes many into the climate transition. One of the concerns of the debate is that climate change should only apply to a small part of society and not include everyone. But the climate is all; tenant-owner associations, companies and municipalities around the country are invited to participate. It is also very clear that they want to participate and invest. I believe that this is the biggest gain from the aid. Of course, you should not get support for things that you then do not do. It is basic authority control that I expect each authority to do in its area of responsibility. It shall apply to this aid, and it shall apply to all other aid. Of course, we do not accept that you are looking for support based on incorrect data and do not deliver. That's wrong. On the whole, however, the support has an effect on direct emission reductions and in allowing more people to try new things. Expanding the charging infrastructure in Sweden means that more people will dare to buy an electric car in the future. It is an extremely important part of the transformation of the transport sector.
i-fc33ce39966def79-466	Madam President, I would like Many are to be welcomed in," says Karolina Skog. Many have received substantial support that has not been effective, but they have been welcomed and supported. It is very good to hear that you are reviewing this. I'm guessing there'll eventually be an evaluation showing that you've done the job. We'll have to look at it from the tapering that's taking place. However, this is not the only inefficiency. Inefficiencies are also found in so-called deadweight costs, i.e. efforts that would still have been made receive support. If the main point is to be welcomed to do what you would have done, it will not be so effective policy. I am a little surprised that, despite the evaluation from the Swedish National Audit Office, it is decided to continue to expand instead of adding further to the Climate Scene or to a conversion bonus of cars to biofuels, which I think are good proposals in the budget but which would deserve a further boost. That is my question and point of view.
i-fc33ce39966def79-469	Madam President, I would like I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we agree on the need for a conversion bonus. It is also another way to welcome more people in. If you have an old car, you can get a bonus to reset it. However, it does not cost much to make the transition, and so we do not believe that the aid on its total will be a great expense to the state. It's a pretty simple operation to do in a workshop. In economic theory it is assumed that all the investments that are now being made had been made anyway. I doubt that the large expansion of, for example, charging infrastructure that the Climate Centre has made possible – a reality in Sweden that has led to an increase in the sales of electric cars – would still have happened. There was nothing before the Climate Scene came into place that indicated that there was such a development going on.
i-fc33ce39966def79-471	Madam President, I would like All over the world, in Europe and here in Sweden, the spread of infection is increasing again. It places severe demands on us as a society and as individuals to do what we can to stop the spread of the disease. The crisis has also shown that Sweden is ready to do what is necessary. During the year, we have washed our hands, kept our distance, worked from home and refrained from hugging our loved ones. Throughout the country, people have helped their neighbors to act. Voluntary organisations and companies have quickly changed their activities to play their part in the fight against the virus. The pandemic is, first and foremost, a serious threat to people's lives and health, but it has also had economic consequences. In the autumn, the economic recovery was slightly faster than expected, but in the future, the growing spread of infection is expected to have a clearly dampening effect. Of course, the situation is particularly difficult in sectors such as the restaurant or tourism industry, where businesses are immediately affected by people taking responsibility and following the recommendations and restrictions that are now being imposed. Together with the Center Party and the Liberals, the government has presented support measures of over SEK 200 billion in 2020. In addition, there have been guarantees and liquidity enhancements of hundreds of billions more. Crisis packages are unprecedented in scale but also in speed, and this has made a difference. Only through short-term lay-offs have hundreds of thousands of Swedish employees escaped the risk of becoming unemployed. As we have said since the outbreak of the pandemic, the government is following the situation very closely and is prepared to take action quickly if it changes. Now that the situation has changed, we are also extending several important measures to protect Swedish companies and Swedish jobs. Let me also thank you for the good cooperation we had with Parliament this year. The fact that new and extended measures can both be prepared and clubbed as quickly as has now happened not only saves many Swedes from going out into unemployment; it also saves human lives. The measures we take cost a great deal. However, the fact that we can make taxpayers' money available in this way to save jobs and businesses and to secure health care and care, especially now that the crisis is at risk of being prolonged, is because we paid off public debt in the good years and were able to enter the crisis with the lowest public debt since 1977. It is also because we kept our heads cool this spring, when capitalistic interests demanded contributions of 100 billion a month. In addition, much of it had gone to companies that were not in crisis at all. If it is something that my experience of crises has taught me, it is that one must always think a step further. The crisis is likely to be prolonged. Thanks to responsible fiscal policy, Sweden now has the necessary financial scope to both extend and strengthen support measures while making major investments in what will build Sweden strong and sustainable after the crisis. Madam President, I would like There has been much talk about plans and strategies. I would therefore like to remind you of the economic strategy that we have been working on since last spring. First of all, we have set aside the money needed to stop the spread of the disease. It has been a matter of abolishing the withdrawal date and the requirement for medical certificates, for infectivity money and for lightening sickness pay liability for employers. Not least, it has been about sufficient financial resources for health care and care for the elderly, because it is one thing that should not exist – and I do not believe that there has been – any doubt: a lack of money should not, must not and will not stand in the way of the fight against the virus by healthcare and the elderly. Secondly, as I have already mentioned, we have taken comprehensive measures to protect Swedish jobs and Swedish companies. No country and no responsible politician can promise that no one will lose their job or that no company will fail. But we will do what we can to save jobs and avoid unnecessary capital destruction by helping viable companies to overwinter. It is a big difference to what it was like during the financial crisis, when many Swedish jobs disappeared unnecessarily to never come back. Thirdly, we strengthen the security of employees who have lost their jobs, not least through increased levels and relaxed membership conditions in the unemployment fund. Those who lose their job should be able to concentrate on getting to work and not have to sell the house or go to social services to pass the rent. If you have become unemployed, you should meet with clear demands to move on to the next job but also good opportunities to do so. Many will need to be prepared to change and ready to change the industry, replenish their skills or perhaps even learn a whole new profession. That is why we are now building the knowledge boost, which from the end of the year will cover more than 140 000 new ways to work. Madam President, I would like The fourth and, in the long term, crucial is that we work together to overcome the crisis in Sweden. With this budget, we are equipping ourselves with investments that build Sweden stronger, safer and more sustainable in the long term, while creating jobs here and now. Therefore, we have systematically reviewed every green investment that can be brought forward or quickly launched to transform Sweden into the world's first fossil-free welfare country. After all, we are going to build Sweden into a climate-smart society. Let's do this right now! We also see that the jobs of the future are here. There is already a fantastic job growth in industries such as batteries, biofuels, environmental technology, CCS and fossil-free steel. As recently as Monday, LKAB announced new investments in fossil-free production that will create 2 000 – 3 000 jobs annually. That is something that we knew long before the pandemic: the jobs of the future are green. The jobs of the future are also in secure welfare throughout the country. Next year, we propose historically large financial contributions to municipalities and regions to protect health, education and long-term care through the economic crisis. In addition to general reinforcements, we also provide special resources to pay off the health debt and secure the care of covids. We make a permanent effort to improve working conditions, more colleagues and the right skills in elderly care. It deserves the care of the elderly, and this deserves not least all of Sweden's elderly people. Of course, Sweden's elderly people, who have built this country that we are so proud of, also deserve a safe pension and a secure economy. Next year, nine out of ten pensioners will have more money in their wallets thanks to the government's budget, many thanks to the pension supplement that will now give more money in their wallets for those who have worked a very long career but still have a low pension. Finally, we continue to step up the fight against serious crime and insecurity. With this budget, it's going to be harder on criminals with more police officers and more places in the penitentiary. There will also be more preventive efforts by investing in drop-outs programmes and not least all the money that now goes to the municipalities, which will receive resources to be able to work with preventive activities. We're supposed to be harder on the crimes and work more preventive, but we also have to go on the black money. Here we are making a big effort on our authorities to stop criminals from milking our systems and usurping black money. This is an important part of Sweden's ability to become a safe country for everyone. Madam President, I would like Sweden is currently in a tough trial, and unfortunately it is likely to get worse before it gets better. Each of us must take his share of the responsibility for stopping the spread of the disease. This applies to individual citizens, but also to us elected representatives. The budget presented by the government, the Center Party and the Liberals ensures Sweden's ability to combat the pandemic. It also lays the foundations for building our country stronger and more sustainable than it was before the pandemic struck. We will work Sweden out of the crisis together. I would like to conclude by welcoming Åsa Westlund and Rickard Nordin to their first budget debate. It's been nice listening to you.
i-fc33ce39966def79-494	Madam President, I would like Politics is a matter of prioritising, and a budget needs to give the best priority to taxpayers' money. In 20 years, aid has tripled. The fact that we are spending more on aid to other countries today than on the Swedish police, the judiciary, the prosecutor's office and the penitentiary together seems to the Moderates to be wrong. The reason why we allow aid to grow every year is that Sweden has a so-called 1% target, Madam President. We and Norway are the only countries in the OECD that have it. The Moderates' budget makes savings on aid. That means a saving of 16 billion that we can use for other things. But Sweden is still living up to the UN target of 0.7% of GDP. Sweden, with the Moderates' budget, will still be one of the countries in the world that provides the highest aid, but the Moderates believe that it is now time to release the 1% target. My question to the Minister for Finance is why the Social Democrats are holding so hard on the 1% target and allowing aid to grow every year so that it is now up to 52 billion when we have great needs at home.
i-fc33ce39966def79-499	Madam President, I would like The fact that we have aid as a share of the bnp is something that we agree on among the world's countries and an objective that we have set together in the UN. Thus, even with Moderate policies, aid would grow year by year as the bnp grows. At this point in time, reducing aid is certainly not very well-timed. Right now, after the recent decades of amazing developments that we have seen, when so many poor people have been lifted out of poverty, the economic crisis we have is making us need to make sure to support those countries in the world that have it much tougher during the pandemic than we do. So the question is why it is well-timed to do this now. But it's about prioritising in a budget," says the Moderates. Last spring, the Moderates wanted to bet 100 billion a month. If we had done so, we would not have had the opportunity to make the investments we are making now. Of these 100 billion a month, a lot had gone into the pockets of companies that were still doing very well in the crisis – the Ica traders, for example. But in their budget for next year, the Moderates want to cut the unemployment fund. Moderate Elisabeth Svantesson said earlier here in the speaker's chair that the unemployment fund should be reasonable. But the basic level in the unemployment fund is now 11 220 kroner a month. Many young people have the basic level. Tell me, Elisabeth Svantesson, why SEK 11,220 a month to pay rent, food, bills, clothes and shoes are unfair. Tell Sweden's young people!
i-fc33ce39966def79-503	Madam President, I would like This is very symptomatic of this government. It is now the seventh year that Magdalena Andersson is Minister of Finance and does not want to answer properly the questions asked by the opposition. She does not want to answer why the Social Democrats so frantically stick to a 1% target, when Sweden is one of two countries in the world that does so. I believe that Magdalena Andersson could reduce aid. Of course, Sweden will support other countries. But it's about 52 billion. If Magdalena Andersson had chosen to reduce it slightly, she could have closed the gap between tax and pension. If she had reduced it slightly, this budget, which is not at all high for a new spread of infection, would have been able to propose support for businesses. I am very pleased that, for two months, we were pushing for the removal of employers' contributions, because otherwise we would not have seen any relief whatsoever in terms of employers' contributions for companies.
i-fc33ce39966def79-506	Madam President, I would like There was no answer to Sweden's young people, who now have 11 220 SEK per month in basic protection, to the question of why this is unfairly high. Why reduce it to $1,000 a month? It's about young people who have now managed to work for one or a year and a half – maybe someone who graduated from high school last spring and has now worked as a waitress for a year and a half. Why is it unreasonable to have $1,200 a month? It has to be down to 8,000. Elisabeth Svantesson thinks this is reasonable, while she evicts 100 billion a month – a lot of this down in the pockets of companies that still make big profits. That is the priority of the Moderates in their budget.
i-fc33ce39966def79-507	Madam President, I would like My question to the Minister for Finance is also based on Category 7 of the Budget Bill for International Aid. For next year, 2021, an aid framework of 52 280 000 000 000 SEK is proposed, which will then grow to 54 910 000 000 and then 57 390 000 000 for 2023. There is almost as much as we spend on Category 4 on the overall justice system. It is almost as much as we spend on the entire Swedish Armed Forces, as comparison. Given the situation we are in now, when we have a pandemic that has led to an economic crisis, we in committee have decided on one supporting measure after another to save as much as possible Swedish jobs and businesses. We lend this to, as I was in my speech earlier, and I think it is right that we should do so. We are funding these support measures through an increase in public debt. It is clear that somewhere we have to sit down and think, prioritise and ask the question: how wise is it that we borrow money and thus debt ourselves to give away this money to other countries on the other side of the world? So we have sovereign debt and unemployment that are increasing and huge needs at home. So how wise is that?
i-fc33ce39966def79-510	Madam President, I would like As I said to Elisabeth Svantesson, I find it difficult to see that at the moment it is the right time to reduce the opportunities for poor countries to combat the pandemic and maintain girls' schooling even though they are in an economic crisis and to reduce the opportunities to support people living in refugee camps. I do not see that this is the right time to reduce their ability to do so in the midst of an economic crisis, when countries are fighting against the pandemic. Now that we are talking about timing, I also have a question for Oscar Sjöstedt, who has also been put by other debaters here in the speaker's chair: was it so successful to propose an elevated restaurant VAT right now? It really is an industry that goes on its knees and has it extremely tough. But Oscar Sjöstedt wants to raise the tax for that industry by 14 billion. At the same time, he wants to reduce taxes on companies that are doing well, such as the Ica traders. They will receive reduced social security contributions. All in all, Oscar Sjöstedt's exercise companies get a good cut in taxes, but an industry that is currently sweating and has it super tough gets increased tax. Why is that good, Oscar Sjöstedt?
i-fc33ce39966def79-513	Madam President, I would like Our budgetary option must be seen as a whole. If one thing goes through, everything goes through. That is how it works with the budget, a system which, incidentally, is good that we have. With regard to our overall support for this industry, which has now been affected by the government's decision on a ban on alcohol, the net balance is getting bigger. Of course, they benefit from the totality of our overall actions. You can't pick out some and say that it's negative, when there are other positive parts. We had quite recently the Minister of Finance visiting the committee and talked about all these support measures. We can see that we are giving away almost 150 billion in tax dollars in subsidies to other EU countries and a little more than 50 billion more to completely other countries in aid. It is therefore over 200 billion that just disappear to virtually no benefit to the Swedish taxpayer. It's almost as much as we've invested in the home field. I do not support that priority.
i-fc33ce39966def79-516	Madam President, I would like Let us talk about Oscar Sjöstedt's priorities. The Swedish Democrats wanted to spend twice as much this spring as the government and cut 10 percent of the bnp. Then there would not have been money to support companies now, when the crisis is longer than many predicted last spring. It was precisely in order to keep money at a more prolonged course of crisis that it was important to hold back and not to evict everything at once but to ensure that there would be dry powder now that it was needed. But the question remains: why, according to the Swedish Democrats, is it so well-timed that right now raise the restaurant VAT for one of the industries that is most affected here and now? Why this is well-timed and the right policy, there is no reasonable answer.
i-fc33ce39966def79-518	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, we have mass unemployment, and unfortunately we have never, as far as I know, had as many long-term unemployed as at present. At the same time, we can see other figures that affect the conditions for all these people. Next year the Employment Service will have no offices in 184 of the country's municipalities. In 202 municipalities there will not be a single employment intermediary. There will only be 88 offices, divided into 290 municipalities, with permanent staff to assist the unemployed and equip them for work. The employment agency's funding for its own operations is lower next year than it was in 2018, when there were 100,000 fewer unemployed. Similarly, the allocation for labour market training is lower next year than it was in 2018, when we had 100,000 fewer unemployed. Unemployment is devastating for a society, for the national economy and for the individual. Yet it is right there that you are stabbing. You are withdrawing resources and conditions for the unemployed throughout the country. And above all, it will be in rural areas that there will be major problems, as it will be when the market is to govern. I would like to ask Magdalena Andersson what analyses have been made of the policy pursued. Is it satisfied with this neo-liberal experiment that the Center Party has been able to get through? And what does the Minister of Finance think about nine out of ten municipalities considering themselves doing the job that the Public Employment Service should do?
i-fc33ce39966def79-522	Madam President, I would like I think the situation is worrying. It is also about the budget – the napkin sketch of the Moderates and Christian Democrats – which was pushed through in the Riksdag with the help of the Swedish Democrats. The injured Arbetsförmedlingen seriously through huge savings. Since then, we have contributed money to the Employment Service. The Minister for Labour has also been clear in assignments to Arbetsförmedlingen that one must ensure that one is around Sweden. It is quite clear to me that there is further work that we need to do to continue to strengthen that all people who are becoming unemployed now also receive the necessary support. We have expanded the overall training in the budget that we have proposed. There will be 55 000 new regular training places next year. It is clear that it will benefit many, both people who have lost their jobs and people who would otherwise also risk going into unemployment, such as young people. This is an important measure. In addition, we will also continue with the matching services, which are part of the January agreement. Many experts believe that matching services can be effective especially for young people. Just in a situation where many young people have become unemployed, matching services can help them enter the labour market. However, I fully share Ulla Andersson's concerns. We need to continue to develop labour market policy on the basis of the situation after the Moderate and Christian Democrats' budget went through with the support of the Swedish Democrats. After all, they were responsible for the major dismantling of Arbetsförmedlingen.
i-fc33ce39966def79-527	Madam President, I would like It is true that there was a large dismantling in the so-called napkin sketch that went through, but you cannot continue to hide behind it. After all, you have a responsibility for the budgets that you put forward. Let me quote Johan Eklund, trade union representative for ST:中 Now we pay... private actors to work with those who still get work on their own. "You, Ulla, these days we get to train the private companies, because they can't do the job they're supposed to do. I don't feel good about this. In 88 municipalities, the Employment Service will have permanent staffing. We have less money for labour market training, and we have less money for Arbetsförmedlingen's own activities than when there were 100,000 fewer unemployed. So we are taking resources from the people who need them most to get back into the labour market. The long-term unemployed, who are record numbers, are pushed even further back by a conscious, neoliberal experimental policy. How do you feel?
i-fc33ce39966def79-530	Madam President, I would like Based on the bottom plate that was laid with the napkin sketches, which the Swedish Democrats, together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, pushed through, we have expanded the Arbetsförmedlingen and labour market policy. I think that's very good. We have strengthened the administrative allocation and the opportunities available for labour market training and labour market policy measures. The Minister for Labour has also been clear in his governance towards the Employment Service that there must be the possibility of employment services in all municipalities across the country. That is good policy, although I see room to do more in this area. It is also complemented by the major investments we make in regular education. But I share Ulla Andersson's view that there is much more to be done in this area.
i-fc33ce39966def79-532	Madam President, I would like The state budget of the government and support parties, which has again been presented here today, is, as is well known, comprehensive. I ventured a while ago to liken the process behind it to a big act on an empty stomach in a group without a shopping list, with the aim of filling a giant shopping cart. Then I also came with the forecast that this purchasing process would lead to the need for costly additional purchases, and that has also been the case. Almost immediately afterwards, it turned out that the January parties had forgotten funds for the prosecutors and for the Ecocrime Agency, and I do not believe that the last supplementary purchase has been made. It is also clear to me that this process has led to different purchases being treated a little differently at the time of the actual pick-up and preparation after the purchase. What the Liberals and the Center Party have forced into the shopping cart is not given the same care by the Ministry of Finance and the Minister for Finance. How else is one to understand that the temporary job tax deduction for 2021 is to be paid first to midsummer 2022? Was this the best that could be accomplished? Then there will be no visible driving force for work and no incentive for consumption throughout 2021 with the 5 billion. And what about the reduction in the social security contribution for young people? We Christian Democrats have another proposal that we think is much more powerful, namely to target the whole thing to those who have become unemployed during the pandemic and to remove the employer's contribution for them. This is what we want to be introduced with retroactiveness. Instead, the government is putting forward the proposal to reduce employers' contributions for young people, but it will not enter into force until 1 April, six months after the budget is presented. This is not a joke, it is the actual policy. The question is: is the Minister of Finance satisfied with the way in which some of her major reforms are now being carried out?
i-fc33ce39966def79-537	Madam President, I would like I appreciate Jakob Forssmed's interest in the internal budget process in the Government Office and how we cooperate with the Center Party and the Liberals. It is certainly interesting to reflect on this in the way that Jakob Forssmed does. It's been a good process. We have had a very good collaboration, and I also think that the end product has become a product that will benefit Sweden and help bring Sweden through the crisis. The large investments we make will be very good when we now also have tougher economic development, and the same applies to the money we provide to municipalities and regions to ensure activity through the crisis – quite different from when the Christian Democrats were in government position during the financial crisis, when municipalities and regions were not even covered for the tax losses they had. At that time the municipalities had major financial problems. It doesn't have to be that way during this crisis. We also provide security to employees who lose their jobs, and we also have consumer incentives that will be able to support economic recovery. Jakob Forssmed can continue to analyse the process. It has been a good process, but above all it is a product that is good for this country. I would have liked the Center Party's proposal on entry deductions to have been effective here and now. It would have been very good in this economic crisis if it had not been stopped by Jakob Forssmed and his party colleagues. It has many features of the employers' contribution reduction for young people that we are now going to go forward with instead, but it would have been much better if the Christian Democrats had not pressed as they did on the button this spring. It would have been good for Sweden's young people.
i-fc33ce39966def79-542	Madam President, I would like I am not surprised that the Minister for Finance thinks that the process has been a good one. Something else would be surprising. The problem is that it is not just your internal processes that we have an interest in. We also have an interest in how these reforms come into play. I understand that the Minister for Finance does not love these reforms. She has been working against them for many years. She has condemned them as ineffective, not least the reduction in the youth unemployment contribution, which is now becoming a reality. But with that said, when you are going to implement them, why not do it in the very best way? We know that it is perfectly possible to implement the reduction in employers' contributions with retroactiveness. It proposed to the government as late as last spring. It is not the case that the preparation must be ready in order to be able to do so retroactively. Then these reforms could have an effect here and now instead of April.
i-fc33ce39966def79-545	Madam President, I would like The question becomes a little strange in view of the fact that Jakob Forssmed here in Parliament has pushed the button in such a way that a similar reform that would have been very good to have here and now has been stopped. It is because of Jakob Forssmed that we are making this proposal. Had it not been for Jakob Forssmed, we would already have had an entry deduction that would have made it easier for people who are new to the labour market. Against this background, I have to say that the question is a strange one.
i-fc33ce39966def79-546	Madam President, I would like We live in a very trying time. The thoughts are in the families who have suffered the disease but also in all the people who have suffered the consequences of the disease. For many, it is about unemployment. For many, it is a matter of concern. The ideas lie in those companies that have worked hard to cope with employment and their own livelihoods during the crisis, but also, of course, in all those families and entrepreneurs who are very concerned about the future. Unfortunately, there is nothing to say other than that it is justified to be concerned. The Corona crisis is serious for health, the economy and our whole society. The light and hope that can be lit is that together, with all the strength we can mobilise together, we should make sure that the future is better and that we get out of the darkness that now prevails. But it is dark, not only because it is November but also because the disease is serious and because the Promise-Tegnell strategy that Sweden has used has not produced any good results. It goes without saying here and now that we need to provide resources for health care. We need to encourage and support the people who work in care and who work in our hospitals and in our health centres so that together, with as little negative impact as possible on our health, we can get through the situation. It is equally clear that we need to target and support the companies that exist. Among other things, this needs to be done through relief, subsidies, crisis support and packages on which we decide in this House. The Moderates are behind each of these and have pushed for many of them to come into being and become a reality. But this is also a challenge for each of us. It is about meeting the disease and preventing the spread of infection and ensuring that the companies that we want to exist tomorrow also manage the day by shopping and simply making use of the services available on the local market. Tax policy, which we are discussing now, is part of it. It is certainly not all parts, but it is an important part of supporting society through this crisis. It is about different types of reliefs that enable households and businesses to better get through the current everyday life. But fiscal policy is also about creating the long-term good conditions. In many ways, Madam President, it may seem a little empty or empty to talk about them right now. A lot of focus, energy and commitment need to be on the emergency situation. But an important part of a crisis is being able to light a candle of hope for a better tomorrow. Tax policy is an important part of this when it comes to creating better conditions for more people to have a job to go to, to create better conditions for a sustainable climate and to create better conditions for more companies to start and grow in our country, so that we get the tax revenues needed for healthcare, police and other things that we are going to manage jointly. Madam President, I would like If, at present, economic policy is about saving as many jobs as possible, the long-term challenge is to create the conditions for as many more jobs as possible. Society, Sweden, is severely plagued by shortcomings in integration and by a crime that has become very serious and that has eaten its way into everyday life for each of us. There are probably few of us who no longer think about the risk of being subjected to violence or robbery or in other ways feel a concern in everyday life. All this – the problem of integration and crime – obviously needs to be addressed with policies in those areas. It is about getting a tighter migration policy in place. It's about getting more cops in place. It is about getting a school in place that is able to convey the Swedish language and good knowledge and about a number of other measures to curb the very serious problems that Sweden has. But it is also about a fundamental thing in society, about a foundation for Sweden to be able to become a good country again. It is about creating opportunities for jobs, self-sufficiency and confidence in the future for those people who currently do not know any such thing at all. It is about politics holding firmly to the work line and making demands on people so that we can hope and believe in the people who have lost faith in themselves. Only with jobs and work community, there is a long-term and lasting opportunity to push back integration problems, exclusion problems and recruitment to various types of criminal activities, in the worst case serious criminal gangs. Tax policy has a major role to play in supporting a work line and in supporting the growth and growth of jobs in Sweden. That is why the Moderates not only in fiscal policy but in economic policy as a whole have their main focus on strengthening the work line and creating the conditions for more jobs. In the budget that we are discussing today, this is mainly expressed by proposing an extended job tax deduction, so that all jobs pay up to approximately SEK 500 per month. Then there will be more people going to work, Madam President. Then more jobs will grow. Then more jobs become profitable, and every job becomes more profitable. It is a reasonable priority at a time when we need to safeguard every job and every hour worked. Our next important priority in the budget is to create the conditions for more jobs to emerge. This is done, of course, by more people being at the disposal of the labour market. But it also happens because there are better opportunities to invest in companies in Sweden and more who want to do so. Therefore, we are making a great effort to reduce corporate tax, so that Sweden becomes one of the countries in which it becomes most attractive to invest. It is not about creating good conditions for those who already have money, but it is also about creating conditions so that more people can make money through a job and a salary. We must ensure that Sweden is once again a safe and attractive country to invest in. It is not just about creating cohesion through jobs, it is also about creating cohesion geographically and across generations. We will build a feeling that we in Sweden are once again a country that tackles our common problems together and solves them and also builds a better future together. It is also about the fact that that feeling exists, that it is a us. So we make sure that the country's pensioners together get about SEK 500 more a month to move around with. They've built the country and they deserve it. We propose a tax cut for the country's pensioners four times the size of the government and its supporting parties. We see the increased crack that exists geographically in Sweden. It has become more difficult and expensive to live outside the big cities, and an important part of this is about the tax on fuel. That is why we propose to reduce taxes on petrol and diesel by SEK 1 per litre so that it becomes cheaper and more possible to live and be active throughout the country. Madam President, I would like To sum up, our budget option is a proposal for full employment, for the growth of more jobs and for a country that holds together through a clear line of work, but also a country that holds together geographically and across generational boundaries. That is why we are prioritising a four-fold reduction in taxes for pensioners and a reduction in taxes on petrol and diesel so that you can live and work throughout the country.
i-fc33ce39966def79-564	Madam President, I would like So we were in the tax debate in the middle of an ongoing pandemic. It is a difficult time we have behind us and also ahead of us, and fiscal policy needs to help society along the way. We have long been able to take for granted that the tax bases in society are there, which has marked the social debate and fiscal policy. But suddenly the unexpected slides onto the stage in the form of a pandemic. This is a time when, of course, it is understandable that the government is seeking greater economic grip to save the economy, but it is generally a problematic approach to raising taxes and burdening a currently declining tax base. The combination can become highly problematic for the entire national economy in the long term, and the formula is not expected to be sustainable in the long term. In many areas, the government plans to raise taxes. Some of them may be temporarily justified, while others are less motivated. Madam President, I would like With regard to labour taxation, the government is seeking to stimulate youth employment through specific tax reductions based on age rates. This is already proven under different names, but all with the same dubious results. Age-defined tax reductions are generally a questionable approach, although the experience of working life for natural reasons is less in young people than in older people. The Swedish Democrats are budgeting instead of a general reduction in the general wage levy, which hits the entire labour market and is expected to have a significantly stronger effect on employment than a limited age-based reduction. Madam President, I would like In addition, the government announces a deterioration in tax conditions for car benefit. It may be easy to see the car as a luxury article for those who need it in their work. The proposal aims to improve the environment, but for many cars are simply a prerequisite for living and working in different places. These people will not be able to put the car away and need to continue driving their car at work. However, there will be a higher tax burden, which may detract from the profitability of certain activities, and it will also reduce the purchasing power and demand of the economy when it is already weakened. Madam President, I would like In terms of investment and taxation, it is important for these to have a long-term and stable environment. The risk is that it will otherwise create an uncertain signal to investors, which we do not need at this time. It can be a bit like dealing with the tax on investment savings accounts and capital insurance, which has not stuck to long-term tax conditions but has suddenly increased the tax on the popular savings forms. Instead, the Swedish Democrats propose a permanent reduction and a restoration of the tax on savings ISK and capital insurance. Instead, we provide households with long-term conditions for investments in companies, which a saving in shares and funds actually is. Madam President, I would like In addition, the government announces an increased tax on energy, which affects the economy on a broad front in terms of household demand and corporate costs. Among other things, farmers and foresters, who already have tax advantages in international competition, will have further tax increases. The government is also hitting transport hard. Certainly the government is now offering a paused bnp indexation of fuel tax, the so-called over-indexation. This could indicate some insight, even if it is paused due to an increased reduction obligation, which increases the basic price of fuel. But the usual CPI indexation of fuel taxation is still going through, so overall there is still an increase in fuel tax, albeit a little less. As if this were not enough, it also reinforces the bonus – the malus system's penalty tax component and introduces more congestion taxes, which clearly hits ordinary motorists. The Swedish Democrats want to abolish bonuses – the Malus system because we believe that it disadvantages those who do not have the economic, family or geographical conditions to buy a new electric car. We also welcome the increase in the share of electric cars in the Swedish fleet, but we believe that it would continue without massive subsidies. Newer and cleaner diesel and petrol vehicles could also contribute to reducing emissions. Instead, Sweden's fleet of fossil-powered vehicles is now in danger of getting older, thereby not contributing to this at all. We also want to pause the levying of congestion taxes during the first half of 2021, not only because we think congestion taxes are a bad idea, but above all because in the escalating pandemic it would reduce congestion and the spread of infection in public transport and reduce the risk of infection for those who have no alternative to getting to work. Households will also have more tax increases in the future, not only on air travel, electronics and plastic bags, but also on coffee mugs, lunch boxes, clothes and shoes. The Swedish Democrats believe that this overall is the wrong way to go. In addition, we believe that the timing of the introduction of these tax charges could probably not have been worse. Instead, it would be strategically better to stimulate the economy through, among other things, tax cuts for households and businesses, especially in times when the national economy and demand are declining. The fact that the government is burdening businesses and households with several tax increases while being willing to spend large sums of money on migration and sending multi-billion amounts of aid to in many cases dubious and corrupt countries and governments is an equation that I think many with me find difficult to understand.
i-fc33ce39966def79-578	Madam President, I would like I was amused to look at last year's speeches in the tax round during the big budget debate, where we are debating tax issues. At that time I mentioned the technological developments and the speed with which it has progressed, starting from a few generations back, from my family. I noted that each generation is in the midst of an era of change and technological development and that with rapid change it also follows increased demands for adaptability. Never could I imagine then that our ability to adapt would be tested a few months after this in a way that never before happened. Technological developments have largely taken us through the pandemic. We work from home like never before. In this context, however, I would like to take this opportunity to say that those professionals who cannot stay home are the ones who have saved us, literally, during this pandemic. They are personnel in the public sector and not least in the health and social care sector. I feel warmth and humility in the face of the work you are doing. Madam President, I would like All predictions of future economic developments are now, as they have been since last spring, very uncertain. The pandemic and the measures taken against it have created a downturn in the economy, the dimensions of which cannot be described as anything but historical. While some industries and companies are doing quite well, it is for others closest to night black. In these times it is both difficult and challenging to plan a state budget. What buffer do we need to have to deal with emergency measures? How do we implement reforms to ensure the reconstruction of Sweden and the economy, that is, how do we get the wheels to roll for our companies again? The Center Party believes that we need to be prepared in the short and long term. That is why it is good that the Center Party is now involved in presenting a state budget in which we reduce taxes by over SEK 25 billion for citizens and businesses. Income taxes are reduced by SEK 13 billion. There will be more money left in the wallet for low and middle wage earners to get through this pandemic. Madam President, I would like In parallel with dealing with the economic consequences of the pandemic, it is crucial for Swedish competitiveness in the long term that we can focus on strengthening the conditions for entrepreneurship and jobs through reduced income tax, reduced employers' contributions and reduced tax for companies investing. I will focus somewhat more on some of these reforms. The cost of hiring must be reduced. During the ongoing pandemic, there has been a temporary reduction in employers' contributions. I am pleased to note that there are now more of us in this House who see the need and importance of reducing employers' contributions. This has led, among other things, to proposals for a company's first employee to receive a greater reduction in employers' contributions than hitherto. The Pandemin has hit sectors where many young people have so far got their first job, namely the restaurant and hospitality industry. In these industries, a larger proportion of women also work. In the budget for next year, employers' contributions for young people are reduced by SEK 7 1⁄2 billion. Madam President, I would like It must be possible to live and live in the whole country. Now the tax is lowered for residents in sparsely populated areas. People in rural areas pay far too much tax compared to people in other parts of Sweden. It is a built-in structural problem after many years of centralisation policy. Despite this, people in rural areas often receive poorer public services and poorer health care. It is an injustice that we cannot accept. For the Center Party, this is an important first step among others to smooth the tax gap between city and country. Next year, a tax deduction on investments will be introduced, while corporate tax will be reduced by SEK 5 billion through changes in the rules for interest deduction, partly to adjust previously incorrect tax collection. In addition, the deduction for research and development is changing and the expert tax is reduced. This, together with reduced costs for small and medium-sized enterprises, is a good example of how, in parallel with dealing with the current crisis, we need to make offensive changes that strengthen the competitiveness of companies. Madam President, I would like Finally, as a centre party, I am pleased that we can continue to develop and expand the box drawn. It was, among other things, the MP of the Center Party Annika Qarlsson who was initially involved in pushing the proposal for a check-out here in the Riksdag. Since it was introduced in 2007, the Center Party has been pushing to continue to develop it in different ways. The number and variety of welfare services is much higher in other countries. We believe that the number of welfare services must also increase in Sweden. There's a lot of new jobs to pick up. Now the ceiling for the square is raised from SEK 50 000 to SEK 75 000 per person in 2021. At the same time, the scope of the box is extended to new services, such as certain laundry services, furnishings and easier supervision of a dwelling.
i-fc33ce39966def79-589	Madam President, I would like Entrepreneurs around the country are concerned, and some are despairing, about the situation of crisis and recession as a result of the pandemic and to some extent a failed Promise – Tegnell model to deal with the problems that Sweden has. But they are also concerned and despaired that they see a return to a tax policy that prevailed in Sweden when Sweden was at its worst, at least in modern times. This, Madam President, is the Centre Party's most complicit party. What I want to ask Helena Vilhelmsson about is how she views the development of the tax system, which with such precision hits small companies around Sweden who are struggling for their survival. It is about plastic bag tax, special taxes on clothing, special taxes on shoes, special taxes on Takeaway coffee and special taxes on takeaway food. There will therefore be a range of excise duties that will affect households and families throughout Sweden. It will particularly hit small businesses who are trying to fight to remain in rural areas to make services available to people living outside the big cities. It is companies that have the most tough to compete with online and modern mail order companies. There Helena Vilhelmsson and the government have opened up excise duty after excise duty that strikes companies and stores that want to remain outside the big cities and are struggling with a small customer base and small margins. The Center Party has already introduced a variety of taxes, such as excise duties on the purchase of a toaster, a computer or a fridge. There will be even more such taxes on clothing and shoes.
i-fc33ce39966def79-592	Madam President, I would like I thank Niklas Wykman for this. I share his concern about where developments are going. Niklas Wykman mentions many different things. What he does not mention is the relief that has actually been introduced for companies. It is reliefs that have been introduced during the pandemic and constant tax reliefs that are included in this budget. The plastic bag tax is mostly a tax for consumers. I am a little hesitant about the massive criticism from the Moderates of precisely pla st bag tax. If there is any tax that has changed the behaviour of consumers, which is partly the idea of taxes, it is the bag tax. Niklas Wykman mentioned the chemical tax, which should be evaluated. He mentioned the textile tax, the taxes on clothes and shoes. There's not a full bill there yet. The question has been out for a referral. There are companies, including in the footwear industry, that have submitted referral points that we should of course take into account. In fact, they agree to some extent that such an instrument is actually needed. If there is something that can benefit Swedish production of clothing, textiles and wool, for example, it is that it becomes more profitable to buy Swedish clothes and not those that contain chemicals.
i-fc33ce39966def79-596	Madam President, I would like It is difficult for people living in rural areas who want to keep the businesses and the trade outside the big cities to understand why the Center Party thinks it is good to have a tax that makes it more expensive to buy a refrigerator or a toaster and that makes it 7 SEK more expensive to buy a bag in the store when you have been shopping. Why does the Center Party think it is good that a cup of coffee that you buy should be taxed with SEK 5, that a Takeaway lunch should be taxed with SEK 7 or that there should be a tax on clothes and shoes? It is very difficult for traders around the country to understand what is business-friendly about this type of policy. Yet this is not the Centre Party's biggest attack on the countryside. In this budget, the Center says no to the Moderates' proposal to reduce the tax on petrol and diesel by 1 crown gallon. The Center Party pushes through increases in bonuses – the Malus system, which means that, for example, a craftsman in the countryside who needs to buy a new pickup for his plumbing, will pay another 5 000 SEK in tax each year. How can it be good for the work of the whole of Sweden to live, Helena Vilhelmsson? In the budget that Helena Vilhelmsson is behind, it is worse for those who have a company car. How can it be good for the people who have jobs and are going to sell things around the country that it is 600 – 800 SEK more expensive a month to have a car? How can it be good for the countryside to attack the car, Helena Vilhelmsson? How can it be good for the work of all of Sweden to live when you say no to 1 krona reduced tax on petrol and diesel, Helena Vilhelmsson? How can it be good for the work of all of Sweden to live when you make it more expensive to have a car for all the families around our country who are dependent on the car to be able to transport themselves, Helena Vilhelmsson?
i-fc33ce39966def79-600	Madam President, I would like How can it be justified from a rural perspective and from an environmental perspective to generally reduce the environmental tax on fuel when about 49% of the number of miles driven is carried out in the three major cities and their vicinity, Niklas Wykman? How can it not be better to ensure that accurate tax relief reaches those we are talking about in this shift, namely rural housing? After all, the deduction for residents in sparsely populated areas is the most accurate we have seen in terms of tax relief so far. How can you defend a tax cut on fuel that does not primarily benefit rural people, Niklas Wykman?
i-fc33ce39966def79-601	Madam President, I would like There is a lot we disagree about – we have heard this here in the debate – but one thing I think we should be able to agree on in the Swedish Parliament, and that is that no child in Sweden should go hungry. No child should have to go to bed hungry or worry about tomorrow. It would have been desirable for the government to have some kind of understanding that it is always those who are already vulnerable, the most vulnerable, who are most affected when the crisis comes. For families with dependent children, this is an economy that has been strained even harder and far beyond what is possible. We see parents and families who during the year have worked hard for their children to get food on the table and who have had to turn every penny around to make some sense of the economy. At the same time, we have an acute housing crisis, and people have continued to become homeless – in the midst of the crisis. It is about children who have quickly had to pack a bag and leave their security. They have had to go with their parents to the nearest social office to try to get a roof over their heads, with uncertainty and no idea how far it gets to school or even what tomorrow looks like. These are the social and economic gaps in Sweden: While ordinary people have become unemployed and have had to choose between being able to eat or pay the rent, we have millionaires who have become billionaires during a global crisis. So we have those who live on abundance of capital, and so we have those who live on the margin. The fact that this government, with the Social Democrats at its head, prioritises the rich rather than tackling the growing divides is nothing new. Even before the crisis, in last year's budget, the government chose to spend billions on various deductions and tax cuts for the richest, and on that line they seem to continue. It is a well-known and damaging line which after decades of tax cuts, cuts in welfare, privatisations, market-liberal playhouses and sales of our homes has given us increased class divides, a welfare of famine food and a society that is not equipped enough to deal with crises. If it is something this year that has shown us, it is how fragile life is and how important a robust and prepared society is, but despite this, the government continues to adopt the same neoliberal line, rather than securing the long-term financing of welfare or tackling the growing gaps. We have heard the government and support parties in the debate today. We have heard the most magnificent rhetoric, but unfortunately it does not match the reality. We are in a deep social crisis where our neighbours lose their jobs, are unable to pay the rent and are facing another cut in the area. It is a crisis in which the most vulnerable and fragile are once again left behind, where sick people are insured and more and more people are unable to live on their compensation or income. They are the ones who pay the price for this policy. Madam President, I would like When the government prioritises the rich rather than grasping the growing divides, the Left Party chooses a different path. We present comprehensive and necessary efforts on welfare and a reformed tax system in order to increase equality. We want to redistribute and close the financial gaps; that is the most important task we can perform here in Parliament. This is how we build a stronger society that is able to take care of the most vulnerable and vulnerable – whether it is a crisis or not. That is why we are proposing an increase in the taxation of those with the highest income, capital and wealth, and we are changing economic policy so that the richest have to pay more and are subsidised less. We need to build up and rebuild prosperity together. We need to increase the presence of health care and care staff and health centres. It is also time for the welfare workers to have the conditions they deserve. For what is a welfare country without staff in welfare? And what is one's welfare if not the right to care, education and safe work with decent conditions? I hardly think it is the billionaires, CEOs or rich shareholders who will save us from the crisis, but the fact is that they are welfare workers. It is the health care professionals, bus drivers and everyone else who struggles every day to support this community. That's all of them – those in the front line against the Corona virus. That is where proper efforts should be made, and that is where working conditions need to be strengthened. The cost can well be borne by the capital owners and the rich, for it is precisely those who sit on much capital and wealth that have been in the spotlight for decades on political decisions and economic policy. They have been abolished or reduced taxes on wealth, inheritance, real estate, property income and one job tax deduction after another – and even more subsidies. I would nevertheless say that Sweden is a tax haven for them. At the same time, trade unions and wage earners have consistently weakened in an increasingly liberalised labour market, and security systems have been eroded. Overall, all of this has contributed to increased class divisions. For decades, reduced taxes on the richest have been justified by the fact that it would create jobs, but the only thing we have received is precisely cuts in health care, school and care, and an economic elite that pulls away faster than ever before and leaves society behind. Madam President, I would like It's time for the rich to start contributing. It is time that we, as a society, looked after each other and strengthened our security and social security systems, that we act in solidarity and that we help those at the bottom of the steps. How can one see more reasons to prioritise the already rich when people freeze under the bridges and in a global pandemic end up in even more vulnerable and vulnerable situations? For us in the Left Party, the goal is to increase equality in society. For us, it is self-evident to invest in general welfare, reduce economic gaps and prioritise the economically vulnerable. This is the most important task we can carry out here in Parliament. This requires a strong distribution policy aimed at those groups most in need.
i-fc33ce39966def79-613	Madam President, I would like A little while ago, the members of the Committee on Finance debated in this House – a debate on what the state should prioritise and not, what expenditure should be increased and what expenditure should be reduced. Let us not forget that it would never have been possible to have that debate if it were not for all taxpayers around Sweden. It is these taxpayers that the money belongs to. This means that we politicians need to be careful about how the money is used and prioritise the right things, but it also means that reducing taxes is an end in itself. It is a goal that people retain as much as possible of the money they have earned themselves. It is a goal that entrepreneurs can spend as much of their money as possible on developing the company and hiring more. Tax cuts also increase growth. It creates more jobs, and tax cuts that stimulate more hours worked also lead to the long-term strengthening of local government finances. What is most important for municipalities and county councils to maintain and develop welfare is the development of the tax base. The increase in the number of hours worked is therefore crucial to welfare. During the time of the Christian Democrats and the Alliance at the government power, welfare was strengthened. This shows, among other things, how the tax force, i.e. the tax base per inhabitant, developed during this time. During these eight years, the tax force increased from SEK 162 600 to SEK 185 800, calculated in constant 2014 prices. The economic and welfare policy conducted with the Christian Democrats and the Alliance in government meant that resources for school, health care and care increased by over SEK 100 billion in fixed prices. Increasing growth through reduced taxes and improved conditions for companies pays off for all of us. Madam President, I would like Our society is now facing major challenges. Due to the ongoing pandemic, the problems we had in healthcare and in the labour market have deepened. Queues are being extended and unemployment is rising. To meet this, the government has launched a start-up package of green investments, resource additions to welfare and security in transition. Some of these efforts are undoubtedly both good and necessary, but something is missing. The strange thing is that some of what is missing is not lacking in the policy pursued but in communication. It is usually the case that communication sounds better than politics, but here it is actually the other way round. The government is doing tax cuts, and although I have views on how they are designed, I welcome the fact that they are at least in the budget. But it is almost as if the Minister of Finance is ashamed of the policy she pursues when she excludes these parts from her communication. Madam President, I would like I began my speech by stating that tax cuts are an end in themselves. However, it goes without saying that taxes are necessary in a society, at least in the society we want. Taxes finance health care and care for the elderly. Taxes finance the defense. Taxes fund the school. Taxes finance the legal system. These are just a few things that can be mentioned. This means that we need to think about which taxes are the most important to lower. For us Christian Democrats, the starting point is that the system should benefit things that are good in society, such as work and entrepreneurship, savings, community and giving. It is also against this that we Christian Democrats are directing our tax cuts. Anyone who works or has worked on our draft budget will have a tax reduction. We're raising the cut-off point for government taxes. We're lowering taxes on associations. We'll raise the gift tax credit. For those with an average income, the tax is reduced by SEK 200 a month. This increases the driving forces to work, and it will be extremely important when Sweden is to emerge from the economic crisis caused by the pandemic. The increased cut-off point for government taxes makes it more profitable to continue training, for example as a specialist nurse. It makes it more profitable to become a manager in care for the elderly. Fewer should pay government taxes, and those who do should pay less. The marginal effects of the tax system must be reduced. Madam President, I would like Associations contribute much that is good in our society. Here we learn to listen to others. Here we learn to compromise. We learn about humanity. We learn about the basics of democracy. The Christian Democrats want to simplify the life of associations, not least through reduced taxes. Through reduced taxes, associations are given the opportunity to focus more of their time and energy on their core business, and we all benefit from that. Therefore, among other things, we remove advertising tax for non-profit associations. In 2019 non-profit associations paid approximately SEK 60 million in advertising tax. This is money that could be used to develop and strengthen associations rather than disappear in taxes. Of course, Madam President, we are also increasing the tax reduction for gifts. The gift tax deduction, as it is often called, means that those who donate money to approved organisations working in the social field or with research receive a tax reduction of up to SEK 1,500 annually. This needs to be developed. We Christian Democrats want to double the gift tax deduction, and we also want to enable more types of organisations to be included in the system. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to say that our tax policy is based on people's right to retain as much as possible of the money they have earned themselves, while at the same time effectively strengthening incentives to work and thus securing tax revenue for the common welfare. We know that people need each other and become stronger together. That is why we also give priority to tax cuts that make it easier for more community in society.
i-fc33ce39966def79-627	Madam President, I would like Culture, the judiciary, general grants to municipalities, student aid and the labour market are some of the 27 spending areas that we are currently deciding on and that will receive a budget of over SEK 1 158 billion next year. It's a breathtaking sum. It shall be financed by taxes and charges. Of course, I will focus on taxes, but we should not forget what this funds. It finances a historically great effort on welfare, on green technologies, on labour market and industrial policy, and on justice and defence. But, Madam President, we must have a few things in the debate. The current pandemic is very serious. All the speakers have raised the serious situation in our country. The current pandemic really affects citizens, society and society. However, we must bear in mind that, thanks to Sweden's strong public finances, we have been able to implement a historic crisis package in 2020. We also have the economic muscles to make the historic reform budget to be decided on today. It is now that we are going to carry out a powerful re-launch of the Swedish economy with investments of astounding SEK 105 billion. The strength we have created through falling public debt and financial order is now needed. The Social Democrats are the Security Party that defends order and order in public finances. We have always done so; that is how we have achieved stability in our country. We are well equipped for the future compared to many other EU countries with weak welfare and hollow taxation. Swedish public debt is only half as high as the average debt in the euro area countries. Many finance ministers are probably jealous of Magdalena Andersson, who has better opportunities to handle covid-19's economic and social effects. Another thing that we need to have in the debate is that we have an old tax system. It's over 30 years now. We were not in the EU when we decided on the previous tax system, and we are more part of the globalised world and more integrated into Europe than when the tax reform was decided. We can all see that a review of the tax system has been delayed due to covid-19. I now hope that a review of the tax system will be launched. Another thing that we need to have with us is that we get certain tax conditions from the European Union. There are various directives that are adopted in the field of taxation, and global bodies like the OECD require a lot of Swedish activity. However, we Social Democrats welcome the work of the OECD and the EU to combat, among other things, tax evasion and tax evasion. As one of the previous speakers said, there are tax changes of around 30 billion in the budget. Madam President, I would like Today's decision is the final decision whereby the previous bourgeois government's tax on old-age pensioners disappears. There will be no difference in taxation on work and old-age pensions from 2023, and we are making the decision today. Apart from the fact that we are now taking the final decision on the penalty tax on pensioners, the tax changes in the budget are quite large. I'm gonna get some picks. The so-called deferral rate for deferred tax on profits on residential sales will be removed next year. Both existing and new deferrals are covered. Reduced taxes on earned income also include unemployment insurance and health insurance. It is part of the green tax shift, which costs 8.5 billion in the budget. There will be a temporary tax reduction on labour income as a result of the pandemic. The tax reduction must be aimed at people with low income and be completely phased out in the case of earned income amounting to a maximum of SEK 50 000. These two tax changes benefit those who have regular wages. We will also, as some previous speaker has said, temporarily reduce the employer's contribution for 19 to 23-year-olds. It is reduced in order to counter the negative consequences of the pandemic and the opportunities for young people in the labour market. It also introduces an extension of the reduction of employers' contributions on employment from one to two employees. A good investment in the budget is also the tax reduction on investments and a further strengthening of the reduction in employers' contributions for research and development. Increased exemption from energy tax for self-produced electricity and shorter withdrawal periods for motor homes are also included in the budget. Madam President, I would like The financial sector will contribute an increased tax of 5 billion in 2022 and an additional 1 billion in 2023, taking into account the social costs that may arise in the event of a financial crisis. We should remember that the financial sector made great profits on the changed corporate tax that was introduced and on the new corporate tax system. Madam President, I would like Pausad bnp indexing of fuel is a few words but a very high cost in the budget. It will cost 940 million according to the forecast, so our decisions really affect the grandeur of the budget. It's not just tax increases and cuts in the budget. We have also created new systems. One example is the introduction of a tax reduction, a green deduction, for individuals installing green technologies. This, Madam President, was a sample of the changes that are included in the budget. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report on the state budget. It is a historic decision with 105 billion in investment and a relaunch of the economy. I would also like to thank the Center Party, the Green Party and the Liberals for their good cooperation on the budget proposal for 2021. As chairman of the Committee on Taxation, I am delighted with the budget for Category 3 Taxation, Customs and Enforcement, which receives a total of 12.4 billion. But that is something we are going to debate next week when this area of expenditure is to be decided on.
i-fc33ce39966def79-648	Madam President, I would like Jörgen Hellman! As an opposition politician, I would say that the government has been lazy, but the government has not been lazy. After all, it has completely squirted out tax proposals. There are a great many tax proposals in this budget. In addition, many other tax proposals have been announced – threatened or promised depending on how you view it. The problem, Jörgen Hellman, is not that there are many tax proposals, but the problem is well whether the tax proposals lead to something good or bad. The Moderates' budget is very clear. We are reducing the tax on jobs, with the emphasis on low and medium incomes, so that we can break exclusion and ensure that more people get into work. We are lowering corporate tax so that more investment and more jobs can be made possible, that is to say a clear focus on jobs. We lower the tax on pensions and we lower the tax on fuel, so that we keep Sweden together geographically and over generations. My questions to Jörgen Hellman are: In what way does Jörgen Hellman think that the mass of all tax proposals contained in the budget supported by Jörgen Hellman is good for Sweden? How does Jörgen Hellman feel that the mass of all these tax proposals makes it easier for jobs and businesses? Madam President, I would like Does Jörgen Hellman have a figure on how many more jobs are created by these tax proposals?
i-fc33ce39966def79-653	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that these lines really affect the debate on society. We had a change of line a year ago about Moderates' budget options, which included a 50% reduction in wages and rent increases. It was not a realistic budget to compare with. You have removed this from this budget option, so now you can compare the policies. That's very positive. As far as Niklas Wykman's questions are concerned, there is a change in the world. We need to improve the climate. With the green changeover, we switch to make certain products more expensive and lower taxes on wages, for example in areas that are not very densely populated. It is clear that we are creating some incentives to switch to green technologies, for example, by making it more expensive to produce things that lose out and cheaper to produce things that do not lose out. The incentive that people get something more money in their wallet is a good driving force for creating jobs and entrepreneurship. But Magdalena Andersson described the basis of our policy rather graphically – that if we are to create more companies and more growth, we need to educate the population more. Then the 140 000 more training places are of great importance for future jobs. They must, of course, be financed with something, and they are financed with taxes.
i-fc33ce39966def79-655	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Jörgen Hellman says that it is good for jobs and entrepreneurship when people are allowed to keep more in their wallets. That is a good clarification from the Social Democrats after the Minister for Employment called a tax cut for people who work and pensioners just the day before yesterday a slap in the mouth. That kind of language does not fit when people are allowed to keep more of the money they have worked together. Jörgen Hellman describes all the tax changes that exist, but Jörgen Hellman cannot account for the socio-economic effects they have. It is therefore a consequence, Madam President, of having a January agreement based on reconciling various party political wish lists instead of looking to Sweden's best and solving Sweden's problems. Probably all these tax changes have either small positive or negative, difficult to say, effects on the overall economy. It is very much more rules, hassles, special rules and subsidies for different groups, but it has very little effect on the social problems Sweden has with low growth, high unemployment, crime and insecurity. These are party political wish lists that have been reconciled. No one has asked the question: Is this good for Sweden? Is it still not possible, Jörgen Hellman, to get recognition that the Moderates are now proposing a four times greater tax cut for the country's pensioners than the government? With the Moderates' proposal, a pensio - when combined will get 500 kr more in your wallet next year. Why do you say no to our tax reduction for Swedish pensioners?
i-fc33ce39966def79-659	Madam President, I would like It is quite strong for the Moderates to take up this thread because they introduced the penalty tax on pensioners that we now laboriously manage to phase out after four or five years. The last decision is taken today. I am more concerned about the Moderate policy of, for example, an unemployed industrial baker. If he made $30,000, he'll lose $1,900 in unemployment for the first month, including the fact that you don't go for our tax reduction. In the next two months, he loses $2,600. You have sort of picked out a group that is really affected by your policy, which is a pity. The last time we stood here, you proposed 26 billion in reduced taxes. The following year, it was 32 billion, and now you've maxed it out with 37 billion. In the long term, these tax cuts are to be financed, and I do not think that Niklas Wykman's description of how you view job tax deductions versus pensioners' taxes in your calculations will hold. You haven't included rent increases and wages. I think it's going to be more number-bingo than budget options. However, this remains to be seen.
i-fc33ce39966def79-662	Madam President, I would like The growing divides are one of the greatest threats at the moment and one of our greatest social problems, but it is not something that this government is directly addressing. Jörgen Hellman referred a lot to last year's budget, to the Moderates and so on. That's why I'm gonna go on that trail. In last year's budget, before the Corona crisis, I asked the Social Democrats about the welfare workers. It was also when the Social Democrats prioritised historical tax cuts for the rich, just as they are doing now that the economic situation of the municipalities is at its most difficult and during the crisis even more strained. The supplements given by the government are, of course, welcome. However, the municipalities cannot renovate in the longer term, and we face and will face cuts in welfare. It will cut down on staff and not be able to hire because it is uncertain. Fewer should do the same job in welfare while increasing needs and more are secured during the global pandemic. How will welfare workers survive, Jörgen Hellman?
i-fc33ce39966def79-667	Madam President, I would like We probably share much of the analysis of the problems in society, and we worked together on the budget last parliamentary term. In this budget, the government has contributed about three times as much money as the municipalities will lose in income due to fewer hours worked. In the short term, the government and today's decisions thus save the economy of the local and regional sectors. Tony Haddou raises important long-term issues. We see a society where rural areas have a high tax rate and low service and vice versa in the crane municipalities of the largest cities. We see how the economic divides are increasing in the local and regional sectors and that we need to secure the financing of welfare in a completely different way. We see the rifts in the care of the elderly; the pandemic has really shown them. Given the change in demographics, it is very important to get started with a tax review to see how the public sector can be financed in the long term sustainably.
i-fc33ce39966def79-670	Madam President, I would like As an opposition member, I find it a bit embarrassing that the Social Democrats see the problems but do not solve them. It's about right here and now. The welfare workers should get what they deserve, namely more colleagues and decent conditions. They should be able to come home without stress, be able to plan family life and feel adequate. We have historical sickness rates among the welfare workers, including those in the front line against the Corona virus. Some of them are even secured during the pandemic. The Social Democrats have a lot to do here. You have a chance to secure welfare in the long term, but you don't take that chance. You don't even dare touch capital income. You're afraid of a redistribution in society. Instead, the contributions to the rich increase. It is about money that the welfare workers need in their business. They need more colleagues. Today's Social Democracy obviously thinks it's okay that underpaid women wear themselves out in welfare while wealthy men get tax cuts. That is the policy you are pursuing. I would like to say to the Social Democrats that we need an economy that works for everyone, not just the richest 10%. It is only to be regretted that you are not taking the chance to secure the long-term financing of welfare.
i-fc33ce39966def79-676	Madam President, I would like On the one hand, we have secured the welfare of the coming year through the stable investments made in municipalities and regions. On the one hand, we are making training efforts which hopefully will lead to more hours worked, which will finance municipalities and regions. We also need to review tax systems and municipal equalisation systems in order to finance municipalities and regions in the long term. I understand Tony Haddous's argument, because the Left Party is getting 70 billion more in revenue through its proposals to raise all taxes properly. I note that none of these proposals are in line with the Moderates' tax policy proposals. So the Left Party and the Moderates are very far apart, and we are somewhere in the middle.
i-fc33ce39966def79-679	Madam President, I would like Civil society is making great efforts in our society. This has become apparent, not least, during the pandemic. Organisations organise ring-lines to encourage lonely older people. Recreational activities are organised for children. Food boxes are distributed to hardworking health workers. My party and I have enormous respect for the people who spend time, commitment and money on this. It is important for us to benefit the non-profit sector also in terms of taxation. The gift tax credit was reintroduced thanks to us and the Moderates. This is good, especially now, given that there is concern in the non-profit sector that part of the funding will be reduced when people who tend to give end up in a more difficult economic situation due to the pandemic. We want to extend the possibility of gift tax deductions. We want more types of organisations to be included in it. We want the lower limit for each individual gift to be lowered. We are also reducing the tax burden on these organisations in more ways, as has been mentioned earlier, including by removing advertising tax on non-profit associations and by extending the possibility of reducing employers' contributions for officials, so that more organisations are covered by that possibility. My question to Jörgen Hellman is: Why has the government not given civil society a higher priority in the budget bill for 2021? I ask the question especially in view of the strained situation created by the coronapandemy.
i-fc33ce39966def79-683	Madam President, I would like I think we have the same analysis of the importance of society in our society. I saw many years ago when I was a councillor how much it meant. When minor disasters occurred in the municipality, I saw what the well - organized church meant for conversations and so on. We fully agree on the importance of the association activities in our country. Another thing, which we have not developed very much in our country but which we should develop, is cooperatives that support the local community. I was asked why we don't want any more deductions. No, I guess in time, we'll try to get rid of a few more deductions. We're gonna make the tax system simpler. We do not see it as a reasonable way to introduce more exceptions. Rather, the discussion should be about how we should reduce wage tax but also reduce the amount of deduction system. Then it becomes a more transparent tax system. We have taken steps to reduce advertising tax. It is one of the things that is slowly but surely phased out. It has taken many years, but slowly but surely you do. Hampus Hagman takes a rather big word about his tax policy. But when you count on it, the result is that what is proposed is that the 20% with the highest incomes should receive about 50% of the space in the supplements, while the 10% with the lowest incomes should receive very little. You find it difficult to help those who have economic problems in society, Hampus Hagman. Perhaps you should use your tax policy instead.
i-fc33ce39966def79-687	Madam President, I would like My question was why the government has not given civil society a higher priority in the budget bill for 2021. My question was not about what the Social Democrats really think about the gift tax deduction. I know that the Social Democrats are basically against the gift tax deduction. I'm sorry about that. I am sorry that this deduction was removed in 2016. It created major problems for civil society. I also regret that the removal of advertising tax has not yet come to an end. But the question was none of this. The question was what government does for civil society in the budget bill. We have put forward a number of proposals on what the government could do and what the state should do for civil society. We are putting an extra half a billion in special support for civil society in response to the pandemic. In connection with all the additional amending budgets presented during the year, we have highlighted in particular the need for support for civil society. But this hasn't been a priority for the government. We've been going on about the need, but the response has been bad. The government has responded with increases in funding for culture and sport. That is in itself a good thing, but support for the broad civil society has had to stand down. I'm sorry about that.
i-fc33ce39966def79-689	Madam President, I would like This is a tax round in the budget discussion that we have. What Hampus Hagman talks about is not so much about taxes. That is why I did not answer that question. With the current pandemic, of course, the government is discussing internally and with the cooperation parties how to support the cultural sector, the leisure sector and all this. It is clear that step by step efforts will be made to help these sectors. Getting general reforms in place was, of course, a priority when the pandemic began. Then there were some incisive reforms for different industries. We will of course discuss in the future how the cultural and leisure sectors have been affected by the pandemic and what they need for help. But it is more on the expenditure side than on the tax side, which we are discussing today.
i-fc33ce39966def79-691	Madam President, I would like Today, I am making my debut in the floor of this House as a member of the Committee on Taxation. I admit that I would have liked to have been able to make this debut in another time, when we did not have to deal with a pandemic that affected both Sweden and the rest of the world. Many speakers before me have pointed out in various ways that we are still living in a trying time. I can't help but agree with that. The pandemic is far from over. The small breathing break we received during the summer was only temporary, for the recent spread of the disease has taken off again. The number of people hospitalized around our country is almost at the same levels as last spring. The situation is very serious. Many people have lost their lives. Many relatives have not been able to say good - bye to their loved ones. Our elderly have again been isolated to protect themselves from the infection. Madam President, I would like If we are to emerge from this crisis, the whole of society must re-assess itself in order to together push back the upward vectoring curve of infection. Only then will we be able to lift the very far-reaching restrictions which came into force this week and which again affect already very badly affected industries and businesses. The decisions we have to make today are not just important. They are necessary for the reboot of Sweden and for us to kick-start our economy, which has taken a lot of damage in the tracks of the pandemic. Many companies have gone bankrupt. They've been sky-high. Unemployment is at historically high levels. If we allow unemployment to bite down, it will affect our common welfare. So far, 12 emergency packages have been developed. But we must be prepared that more will be needed. Liberals will also continue to take responsibility for reducing the damage caused by the pandemic. Madam President, I would like For us liberals, the focus, in addition to obviously combating the spread of infection, has been to save companies from going bankrupt, to protect jobs and to ensure that more people do not end up in unemployment. We have pushed to put in place the short-term lay-off system, which protects over half a million jobs and prevents more from becoming unemployed. We have pushed through packages for both conversion and turnover support to crisis-stricken companies so that they can make it through this very difficult crisis. We have reduced employers' contributions and strengthened social security systems for those groups that, for various reasons, need the security it provides during the pandemic. We have both provided general support to municipalities and regions and made targeted efforts for health care and care for the elderly, as well as taken many other strong measures during the pandemic. Now we are taking further steps for more initiatives that are necessary for the re-launch of society and for Sweden to emerge more quickly from the recession we are in, although the latter will take a very long time. Madam President, I would like We strengthen companies' conditions and competitiveness. We are making efforts to reduce the debt of integration, which has been allowed to grow for decades, while politics has turned its back on today's vulnerable areas and the people living in these areas. We are reducing employers' contributions for young people, the group most affected by all during the crisis, and we are reducing taxes for people with low incomes. We will continue to develop the grid reform so that not least more women and more foreign-born women can have a job to go to after the pandemic. Madam President, I would like Even after the crisis, Sweden will continue to operate in a globalised economy, and our companies will continue to operate in competitive markets. If they are to be able to compete on equal terms, people from other countries should want to come here and contribute their skills, so it must be attractive and profitable to want to come to Sweden. This calls for structural reforms and tax incentives for companies. Thanks to the Liberals, we have now successfully ensured in the negotiations that, for example, corporate tax is reduced when a new deduction on investments is introduced, while at the same time changing the rule on the group subsidy block for business. These changes are necessary if companies are to adapt, become more climate-smart and meet the challenges facing the labour market, not least in terms of digitalisation. In addition to this, we are extending the R & D deduction, which means that companies that employ people who work with research and development receive a substantial reduction in the employer's contribution. We extend tax incentives for foreign experts, researchers and other important key people from three to five years, making Sweden a more attractive country to want to come to and contribute its expertise. Madam President, I would like The foundation of a prosperous welfare country is built through education and education. There are no class trips or integration trips that are as important as those made with the school, which is a ram against segregation, exclusion and poverty. That is why we are now investing heavily in the school to give all children a good education. However, we are also investing in adults' ability to adapt and develop their skills so that they can return to a new job once they have been given the opportunity offered during the crisis. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude my speech by thanking all those who have gone to work every day during the next nine months and who are still making incredibly important efforts to ensure that our well-being is able to function during the crisis as well. I would like to thank all the staff, not least in health care and care for the elderly, who have been at the forefront of the front line in the fight to save lives since March. I would like to thank all the staff in school, preschool and leisure activities around the country who have taken care of our children and given them a meaningful life and helped students to continue their knowledge learning. Thanks to all entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs and everyone else who makes Sweden a better country! The pandemic is far from over, and we need to do more. We need to extend some of the aid available today. We will need to develop more crisis packages to facilitate and help business to overcome the crisis. The Liberals will also continue to take responsibility for this work while, of course, we continue to make a strong effort to reduce the spread of infection in society. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-fc33ce39966def79-712	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by welcoming Gulan Avci to the Committee on Taxation and this debate. At L Iberals, the healthy and well-paid still get the best. The gaps are increasing in Sweden. Liberals seem to want to do nothing about the distribution of income at all. We see an inequality that is growing and clinging to Sweden. Since the mid-80s, economic inequality has increased most in Sweden among OECD countries. If we continue this way, the distribution of income will be more unequal than that of the United States in just 15 to 20 years. Is that what the Liberals want, to go from the world's most equal country to the world's most unequal? Isn't the time for tax cuts over?
i-fc33ce39966def79-716	Madam President, I would like Thanks to Tony Haddou for the nice welcome! But I suppose right there this fine gesture will end. Is there any party in this Parliament that the Liberals really have as their counter-police is the Left Party when it comes to the view of economic growth, market economy and entrepreneurship? It's about all those people who take huge risks and dare to realize their dreams to contribute to society and your and my common welfare. It is important to ensure that more jobs are created. If Tony Haddou thinks that the Liberals' view of economic policy or enterprise policy in Sweden is strange, I am not surprised. Tony Haddou and the Left Party have always been out to fight wealth. Liberals have had as a starting point that all people should have the opportunity to make a class trip. We will reduce the income gap between those who are outside and forced to live on benefits and those who are there every day and through their own efforts and work actually earn their own money. They will probably be difficult even forward for Tony Haddou to bring this in. But that's the harsh reality. If we are to make up for the differences that exist in society between those who have and those who do not, we must address the right efforts and what is wrong in both the tax system and economic policy. That's why the Liberals also continue to be a guarantor that those who have a little worse off will get much better. Those who actually make an effort, train themselves and make efforts every day should also feel that they get more money left in their wallets. That's how we fight class divisions in society and not with your benefit line.
i-fc33ce39966def79-721	Madam President, I would like The welcome remains, but I did not get an answer to my question at all if the time for tax cuts is not over. Finally, Gulan Avci claims that we have a subsidy line. It surprises me a little when Gulan Avci now wants to develop the grid grant used by the richest. If there are any who have a subsidy line, then I think that nowadays it is neoliberals who want to give everyone's money to the very richest and concentrate it over there. Well, that's true in what Gulan Avci says is that we're counter-pols. The problem is that we have tried these reduced taxes that the Liberals represent. We've been trying them for about three decades. If this were to create jobs, why aren't we flooded with jobs? If we lower taxes for the rich and that gives us more jobs, why hasn't Sweden been flooded with a lot of jobs with decent conditions? The problem is that the economy and capital income are concentrated in the richest percentages. That's the big problem. You do not want to redistribute there at all. We're definitely counter-poles. For example, we want to invest in the public sector. We want to renovate welfare and society. What we see from your policy is increased class divisions. That's the problem. Gulan Avci mentions class trip. In our society, no one should have to make a class trip. We're gonna have nice growing-up conditions from the start. We will be able to have the world's best school in all areas of Sweden. This is the basis for building a start in life with decent growing conditions. You run a profit-making school where you pick out the money and the kids are left behind. You have created A and B teams in society. It's not very nice.
i-fc33ce39966def79-727	Madam President, I would like That's a lot of claims. I'll try to answer some of them. The fact that the gap has increased is due to the fact that the sossians were in your clutches during the last four years of their term of office. Yes, it's true! The grant line was reinforced. More and more people were alienated. Although Sweden had strong economic growth, the Social Democrats did not manage to drive a line of work because they were in the clutches of the Left Party. It is interesting that Tony Haddou mentions just the square and calls it a contribution. I think it is very rude to the thousands of women, not least, who have dared to start a business. It is rude to all the women who, thanks to the reform of the rules, have come to work and to support themselves. We have managed to wash a former black market white and given nice conditions to those who now actually contribute to our common welfare by working and paying taxes. I note that Tony Haddou makes no mention of the root deduction. There the Left Party wants to make substantial increases. Why should you favor male-dominated sectors? Why should a rooter be able to come and carve a window but a woman who works within the framework of the grid reform cannot come and polish the same window? I think it is a distorted view of people and a distorted way of looking at how people contribute to Sweden's growth and to creating jobs in Sweden. You look down on not least foreign-born women. However, I can give Tony Haddou one point: school is by far the most important ram against segregation, poverty and socio-economic vulnerability. That is why the Liberals continue to ensure that there are more resources for school, that we strengthen quality and that we give all children, regardless of their background and where in the country they live, the same opportunities for a ticket into adulthood. We are guarantors of that.
i-fc33ce39966def79-732	Madam President, I would like That was a nice compliment to the Left Party here earlier. I'm going to make an attempt to make the award as the biggest opponent of neo-liberalism. This budget shows that much has been done on the basis of the health crisis we are in. The Coronandem still has us in its grip. Many are now eager, as we have heard in this House, to come back in the same safe haven, that is to say, continue with business as usual. As soon as we receive the vaccine, we will quickly return to the same society, even though it has proved to be vulnerable and have many different flaws. Although I also yearn to get away from the pandemic, it is clear to me that we must seize this opportunity to create a better society. However, as every time I take the floor in this House, I would like to emphasise once again that at the same time we are in a climate crisis and a species crisis, and these crises cannot be separated from each other. We must be able to see the whole, and we must be able to get to the bottom of what is actually driving these crises. I don't think we should settle for symptom treatment. Our economic system, globalisation, the work line, the tax system, the security systems, just-in-time and outsourcing should be discussed, and solutions that enable us to prevent and clear crises must be developed. I would like to remind you once again that the emergence of the virus was due to disrespectful treatment and oppression of both animals and nature. A v all viruses are 80 percent zoonoses that infect between animals and humans. This is something that is happening not only on the other side of the world but also in Sweden with our mink farms, which we still have not laid down even though they represent a great risk and despite the fact that the majority of Swedish people want us to do so. If we cannot get to the bottom of these difficult but fundamental issues, the question is not whether but when the next pandemic comes. Madam President, I would like Citizens and civil society have made a major contribution in these times, both in the health crisis and in the climate crisis. However, I find it unreasonable to allow the citizen to assume responsibility for the transition. It is difficult to influence in a poorly rigged system. We politicians must lighten the weight of the individual and place the responsibility where it belongs: among those with a great deal of power to influence. We should remember that 100 companies worldwide account for more than 70% of all emissions. Madam President, I would like Then why does it look like it does? I believe that this has to do with our view and the values that prevail today. Large companies are something that should be promoted politically, even if they actually drive prey on our common ecosystems. The more jobs, the more important. The more consumption, the greater the brilliance and economic growth, the more we will benefit them. The economy is superior to ecology. This is the view of representatives of virtually all parties here. In the Green Party we do not share that assessment. It should be easy to do the right thing, but it should also be impossible to do the wrong thing when you're committing a major planetary assault. A low-hanging fruit, therefore, is to stop the environmentally damaging climate subsidies. Unfortunately, too many people want to protect the old order even when it comes to people, climate and nature. We still see that the big giants receive subsidies and derogations from rules. For example, if you own a villa as a private person, you have to pay 35.3 øre per kilowatt hour in energy tax. But if you use the same energy in an industry, you only pay 0.6 øre per kilowatt hour. It is almost 60 times cheaper to use this energy in industry. Today, government rebates are given for companies that are shitting down, and that discount is not small. Globally, fossil fuels are subsidised by SEK 3 000 - SEK 6 000 billion annually. Renewable gets far less than half. That is why the green tax shift of at least 15 billion is needed more than ever to put things right. Madam President, I would like In this budget, we have had to fight to stop subsidising the use of fossil fuels and private carism, by adjusting the tax on preferential cars. It should pay no more with a benefit car than to charge your salary, and it should pay no more to get a car through the job than it should in private. That, however, is exactly the way it has been. According to the Tax Agency's control data, over 80 per cent of all persons with car benefits were men, and the average income was approximately SEK 50,000 a month. More than half were also found in the metropolitan regions. The tax system has thus favoured private carism for men in the largest cities. Thanks to a long struggle on the part of the Green Party, this is finally settled. I am also pleased that we are removing the tax reduction for heating fuels in industry and agriculture. These are companies that use oil in their heating. Today, there are some 1 500 industrial companies that are not included in the EU ETS and receive a reduction in the energy tax on heating fuels. This environmentally harmful subsidy is now finally being removed. It should not be free to destroy the environment and climate, and it should certainly not be sponsored. The green tax shift is not just about removing environmentally harmful subsidies, but we are also reducing taxes on labour. Our focus has been particularly on low and middle wage earners. Madam President, I would like The pandemic has exposed the rifts of our welfare. People who have struggled in health care and themselves suffered from illness are now at risk of being insured. I sincerely hope that we can learn and realize that we have to do it again and do it right. Many people have been severely affected financially, and although during this crisis I have been an advocate of an emergency income guarantee to everyone, I am nevertheless extremely pleased that the starting point of the unemployment fund remains, that single parents receive increased maintenance support and that we reduce the income tax on low and middle income earners with the greatest difference for those who earn around 20 000 SEK a month. I do not think we can be satisfied with the situation of over 300 000 poor pensioners, but I think it is a step in the right direction to remove the tax on pensioners. Madam President, I would like Of course, these and many other initiatives are gratifying, but if you ask me if that is enough, my answer is no. Had we in the Green Party had the power to decide, we would have left the environmentally harmful subsidies in the past and invested even more money in the environment. And even then I would not be entirely satisfied, because some things we cannot solve by spending money on them, but we must get more stringent legislation. Constant economic growth in the traditional sense is not possible on a planet with limited resources, and we will not be able to tackle either the climate or the species crisis. An ever-growing economy is neither desirable nor possible, and imagination is and remains imagination without any foundation in research. Unfortunately, this insight shines with its absence both in politics and in this budget – where the word growth is mentioned more than 160 times. Economy should not be an end in itself, but it should be a means to achieve the goals that for me are about quality of life within the limits of the planet. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-fc33ce39966def79-753	Madam President, I would like The issue of foreign powers using non-military means such as takeovers and direct investment to create political influence has become increasingly important. Today there are no rules on transfers of security sensitive activities in Sweden. At a time when the world around us is becoming increasingly concerned, the need to strengthen Swedish legislation is clear. The Moderates have been driving the issue for a long time and have pointed to the risks of both foreign direct investment and transfers of security sensitive activities. We highlighted the need to get a Swedish direct investment audit system in place in spring 2020 when it became clear that the Corona crisis was a risk that hostile state-controlled actors could use the economic crisis to buy up vital infrastructure or companies of national interest. We therefore welcome the fact that the Government has now come forward with a proposal for changes to the Swedish Security Act aimed at strengthening Sweden's security in the event of transfers of security sensitive activities. In the moderate follow-up motion to this bill, we highlight five points where, however, the legislation could have been further improved. In the Government proposal, there are no clear deadlines for proposals for consultation in the case of transfers of security sensitive activities. Instead, reference is made to the Administrative Act which states that cases should be dealt with as easily, quickly and cost-effectively as possible without prejudice to legal certainty. The clarity of time limits is a strength. It creates predictability in the system for those affected. The Moderates believe that there should be time limits for consultation in connection with transfers of security sensitive activities in Sweden. The introduction of a lower limit to the consultation notices would create clarity and predictability for those involved in the processes related to these transfers. These are processes that are often both time critical and complex. The possibility of knowing in advance how long to wait for a reply is therefore desirable. Sweden's security is central to the Swedish Security Act. However, there is no clear definition of what that concept actually means. In view of the fact that Sweden's security concept is not simply to identify and that it is also not appropriate to be public about these tasks at all times, there should be good opportunities for support and guidance for the operators involved. There will be many activities and transfers that are in a grey area as to whether or not they are subject to consultation. It is gratifying that a united committee proposes that the Riksdag issue announcements to the Government both that the Government should return with proposals on clear deadlines for the consultation process and that the Government must ensure that the consultation authorities can provide stakeholders with support in the form of dialogue and guidance. With regard to the four reservations that we have, I would like to say a few words on the issue of appeal. The proposal proposes to appeal to the Administrative Court of Stockholm against the decision of the consultation authority to order the consultation during the consultation. The possibility of appeal against the decision of the consultation authority is important and part of legal certainty. The Moderates believe, in line with the investigation's proposal, that appeals should instead be made to the government. It is a more reasonable model than the alternative that interpretations of possible implications for Sweden's security should be decided by a court. The procedure would also be in line with the Riksdag's announcement to the Government that appeals in cases concerning permits for the next generation of mobile networks could be appealed to the Government instead of to an administrative court. It should also be added that interests relating to Sweden's security should weigh heavily in the same way as they do in the process of licensing arms exports. Furthermore, the Administrative Court of Appeal points out that, as the proposal now stands, there are two different proceedings concerning injunctions and prohibitions. This may, in the view of the Administrative Court of Appeal, lead to a risk of parallel proceedings on the same subject. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of reservation 1. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the importance of allocating sufficient resources to managing the consultation procedures. The new legislation will enter into force on 1 January 2021. This means that the relevant authorities have relatively little time to recruit competent staff and train them in the new tasks. There is a risk that assessments and consultations on transfers may initially delay. Any delay is likely to have a negative impact on safety aspects. A lengthy process of transfers may also scare away foreign direct investment in activities that may be affected by the new legislation. Ultimately, it is about Sweden being a safe and attractive country to invest in, where all actors can expect predictable and legally secure processes. The Government has provided resources to the Swedish Security Service, the Swedish Armed Forces and the Inspection of Strategic Products, ISP, for the work on security protection. However, the Swedish Armed Forces and ISP receive only minor contributions. The Moderates therefore believe that the government should review the implementation of the new legislation before the spring amending budget and, if necessary, provide additional funds to ensure that the legislation is in place.
i-fc33ce39966def79-766	Madam President, I would like It is good that the government is now taking a first step towards a broad and permanent regulation of transfers of security sensitive activities and certain property of importance to Sweden's security. There is a great need for it, and Sweden, unlike many other countries, has lacked such regulation. It is well known that foreign actors use both illegal and legal methods to obtain information that may be relevant to Swedish security. There is a problem regarding, among other things, foreign takeover of sensitive infrastructure and technology in Sweden, also for companies that conduct security sensitive operations under the Swedish Security Act. Madam President, I would like With the proposal now before Parliament, the Government is implementing parts of the report Supplements to the new act on security. At the same time, the government intends to come back with the remaining proposals in the report, and also to come back on audits of foreign direct investment and on how the security legislation should deal with this when the Direct Investment Investigation concludes its mission. We would like to remind you that, for example, the media is one of five identified areas which the Commission considers to be worthy of protection. Madam President, I would like It is good that the government intends to come back with further regulation containing proposals from the two above-mentioned investigations. However, the Center Party wants the government to include proposals contained in the final report of the Committee for the Improvement of the Protection of Total Defence Activities, which includes, among other things, total defence risks linked to the control of property in certain geographical areas. It is an important but currently absent part in order for Sweden to have a necessary and comprehensive regulation in this area. Through selected acquisitions or use of property in Sweden, foreign power may hamper Swedish defence activities, engage in illegal intelligence activities or otherwise support an activity aimed at Sweden's security and jeopardise it. This must be regulated. The Committee on Improving the Protection of Total Defence Activities has proposals that would provide Sweden with the necessary and more comprehensive regulation in this area. This is something the government claims to see a need for. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal which is on the table, but I also believe that the two announcements described in the report are extremely important. They're from the Moderate follow-up motion. A shorter time limit for the consultation authority is reasonable, not least from the point of view of legal certainty. It can also provide support and guidance for operators, as both the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have agreed. I hereby request the approval of reservation 3.
i-fc33ce39966def79-772	Madam President, I would like Sweden and Swedish important interests are not for sale. That is why this report and the decision that we are going to take in this House are very important. The world is constantly changing. Not least, it can change a lot in times of crisis and disaster. Right now, as you know, the world is in a disgusting pandemic. It is such a crisis that can redraw the map of geopolitical power relationships. We also know that countries can be put under very heavy economic pressure during such crises. Last year, the new Security Act came into force. This, of course, welcomed the Liberals. There, the requirements for authorities and companies to protect sensitive information and activities that are important for Sweden's security were tightened from a broad perspective. It is a work that is, of course, based on European cooperation. Within the EU, we have identified many countries as being very vulnerable and that we must better defend the values that Europe stands for, such as democracy, a market economy and, not least, human rights. The Security Act was a clear search for ambition, which made it easier and easier to protect us from threats from outside. Now we are dealing with reinforcements and additions to the Security Act. It is about Säpo and the Swedish Armed Forces being able to stop the sale of companies that run security sensitive operations from next year. This could be infrastructure, energy or telephone communication. It can be both private and public. The idea is that several of our country's strategic activities should be protected, and not just nuclear or defence equipment as at present. Madam President, I would like Around fifteen states carry out various forms of security-threatening activities in Sweden and against our country. Over the last five years, the Security Service has been able to see that this has intensified. Foreign powers spend a lot of resources, a lot of time, huge amounts of money and technical resources on systematically attacking and identifying Swedish businesses that they either want to take control of, spy on or acquire and buy up, which may now be the case. I would like to remind the House that only China has bought up 65 companies in our country in the last four parliaments for over 100 billion. These include Volvo Cars and Filmstaden. They have also bought in Oatly, Acne and AB Volvo. Oat milk and stylish jeans may not be a problem when it comes to foreign investment. But both cultural institutions and high-tech transport solvers can be strategic in the future. Liberals think it is good that the government continues this work. This is a step along the way, which has been pushed forward by the Riksdag. This has been partly done because it is acute as a result of the ongoing pandemic. We in the Liberals support the report and believe that the communications and announcements made by the committee are important. The government should return as soon as possible. We have a reservation on defence equipment which we, together with other parties, already wish to mark. I therefore support Amendment No 2 in the report. Otherwise, I support the proposal in the report.
i-fc33ce39966def79-779	Madam President, I would like Sweden is an open and welcoming country and will remain so. We believe in cooperation and free trade. It has served us well throughout history. The world needs Sweden, and Sweden needs the world in particular. The fact that foreign companies invest and establish themselves in Sweden is crucial for creating jobs and growth in our country. In particular, it will be a decisive factor in the economic recovery following this pandemic. Of course, we must not be naive and blue-eyed to watch foreign states use strategic purchases to gain security policy benefits. It is a strategy that we have seen in many parts of the world and, of course, we are not spared. The Swedish Security Service and several other authorities have been warning for some time that these takeovers of sensitive infrastructure and technology in Sweden may damage Sweden's security. In addition, the risk has increased during the pandemic. Many companies are facing difficulties economically, and this situation is particularly exposed to the takeovers and takeovers of foreign operators. The European Commission has also pointed out that the spread of this virus that plagues us has increased the risk of operators trying to acquire. In the health sector, in particular, there are major risks. On this basis, the legislative proposal that we are debating today and which is being dealt with in a fast track during this year is incredibly important. It is important to point out that, as usual, when it comes to Sweden's security, we have a broad consensus, although there are some views on the margin. We can see that in some of the reservations. But we're also in on an announcement there. In any case, as several speakers have said, the proposals aim to ensure that the buying-in of security-sensitive activities is not carried out. These are critical infrastructure, energy systems, electronic communications and, not least, the current 5G network. With the new proposal in place, the seller must consult the relevant authority. One cannot decide in any event, but the authority has an influence on the process and is also able to issue a ban on sales if this is the case. We are taking an important step through this new legislation, even if it is not the only one. We need to take a more comprehensive approach, as we can read about in the report. This is long-term work. It is important to point out. For example, we have a direct investment investigation in progress, where a comprehensive solution is to be found for the problems that exist. That is why it may seem that some things are missing from this fast-track proposal. On the subject of substance, previous speakers have very well reviewed what is at stake. On the basis of this whole, in our view, there is no reason to call for a further announcement beyond those already made. I therefore support the committee's proposal for a decision.
