i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-0	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson has asked me if, in view of the new information that has emerged in a documentary series about the M/S Estonia, I am prepared to set up an investigation that includes dive operations with full and transparent reporting of the results to the public and the media in all countries affected by the disaster. Furthermore, he has asked if I am aware that information on sensitive cargo on board the M/S Estonia is known from the outset at government level and if any of the subsequent decisions, such as the question of salvage, have been affected by these alleged shipments. The government takes the new information that has emerged in Discovery Network's documentary series about the M/S Estonia very seriously and has a close dialogue with Finland and Estonia about it. In addition, the National Board of Accidents has accepted from the Estonian Expert Authority that the three expert authorities in Estonia, Finland and Sweden will jointly assess the new data. The government welcomes this work. In the context of the work to be done by the expert authorities, it is important to determine whether the new tasks in the documentary series give rise to additional investigative measures and, if so, what kind of measures. The mission review showed in November 2004 a documentary about alleged military transport on the Estonia during the month of September 1994. On 3 December 2004, the Government called an investigator, Johan Hirschfeldt, to investigate the alleged military transports. At the same time, the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration (FMV) were commissioned to report how civil means of transport were used for the transport of defence equipment. On 21 January 2005, Hirschfeldt presented its mission. The investigation concluded that there was no basis for assuming that the Swedish Armed Forces or FMV had sought to transport defence equipment on board the Estonia when the ship sank. The way forward is about finding an explanation of what may have caused the hole that the new data shows in the documentary film. We now need to give expert authorities a good opportunity to carry out the work of analysing the new tasks. The government will take the additional measures that may be needed in view of the new tasks.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-5	Madam President, I would like The question of Estonia is very much involved, and it is not surprising given that there are so many unanswered questions. How could the Estonia sink so quickly, and why not the ship and the dead? What we know is that there were 989 people on board, 852 of whom drowned. Of these, over 500 were Swedes. It is positive that the government attaches importance to the new data that has emerged in the documentary series on the M/S Estonia and that there is now a discussion on additional investigation measures. But that said, Madam President, there is one important point to be made: it is of the utmost importance that a careful examination of the damage to the M/S Estonia is carried out, and such a study requires new dives in some form. The fact that the statutory grave peace often referred to would prevent a thorough investigation does not find any support in the relevant groups. Family members and survivors give priority to a full investigation. The public prioritises a full investigation. Members of the Ethical Council give priority to a full investigation – Caroline Krook has even said that they might have been misled. Maritime safety and the future in particular require a full investigation. In principle, there is a consensus on the need for new dives. That is the important message here, and it is of the utmost importance that the government does not prevent it. Then there is the question of military transport. As far as these are concerned, it is true that Hirschfeldt's investigation dismissed the fact that it was FMV and the Swedish Armed Forces that had cargo on board the M/S Estonia the night the ship sank. But it also came to the conclusion that there was military transport two weeks before the wreck and a week before. What Hirschfeldt said was that he hadn't even looked at whether it was another country smuggling or whether it was a company. It has also emerged that this could be missile technology and that Russia did not at all enjoy the fact that neither the first nor the second round of equipment went out in this way. There were warnings. This needs to be investigated. What is really behind it? We also have the strangest thing that the entire investigation material, all the background material, was destroyed. It has probably never happened before in Swedish history that an investigator has done so. Given the current situation, the information situation is not satisfactory. In 2006, Estonia carried out an investigation into Estonia's military transport, which the Government is probably aware of. It reached a completely different conclusion from the Swedish one. It was said that one cannot dismiss the fact that military cargo was on board the M/S Estonia the night the ship sank. I'm sure the government has been watching the film. More and more people have done so, and it will go on more channels in the future. There it emerges, Madam President, that there are witnesses who survived the wreck and who testify that it was a military transport. The question is at what time the then government was informed about these military transports and whether it is somehow related to the strange concrete cover proposal. Was there an intention to hide the fact that military supplies were being shipped?
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-17	Madam President, I would like We are talking about one of the worst disasters in modern history, which hit Sweden very hard but also several other countries whose citizens were killed in this enormous disaster. I have great respect for the fact that people feel that not all questions are answered and that the process when it started and started may not always have happened in the way they had expected from relatives. That is why in my present role, when I am a minister responsible for, among other things, the Swedish Commission for Accidents, I think it is so incredibly important that I try to deal with this so openly and clearly but above all in as much cooperation with Estonia and Finland as possible. I am afraid that if we do not deal with this issue wisely between our three countries, there may be new questions or complications to which I do not wish to contribute. That is why, as I said in my reply, I am pleased that Estonia, as a flag State, is taking the lead in verifying the new data but also in making an initial assessment of it. Yesterday, the media reported that there are more holes in the film material, which is now known for the accident commissions and which will be studied to discuss what may have caused it and what further investigative measures need to be taken to find a response to what may have caused the big hole, but also other holes in the vessel's body. It is important to have a good answer to why the ship sank and how this is connected. There must be no doubt whatsoever about this. We want to know what was going on and how this may have affected the course, if it has. The assessment that the accident commissions are now working on together includes coming back with suggestions as to whether we need additional investigative material or whether we need to go down and film. I want to be very clear: if it turns out that it is necessary to carry out new underwater surveys in the protected area, I am prepared to take the necessary measures to make this possible. Within the Government Office, such work is now under way to look at what measures might be needed to achieve this. It cannot be excluded that it may require us to work for an amendment to both the international agreement and Swedish legislation, because Swedish legislation is quite strict in this area, linked to the grave peace law we have had. With this, I would like to say that Sweden's Prime Minister Stefan Löfven made a clear statement. He does not exclude any action to overcome the new tasks and get answers. This is what the government means, and I therefore believe that there is broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament that we should work closely with both Estonia and Finland on these issues and ensure that we get the answers we can get about the new tasks, which I think are important and which we should take seriously. This is my firm opinion, and I also believe that the Haveris Commission has come a bit about the work. They have presented a first work plan. They have no interest in delaying this, so I expect them to come back to the government quite soon with their assessments and the way forward. I am waiting for that, and in the meantime we are preparing ourselves, among other things, by making legal assessments of what would be required if new dives were needed.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-26	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Damberg, for your answer! Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to raise a few points that give rise to question marks. The first investigation an accident investigation does at a ship wreck is to check if the hull has any damage, cracks, holes, loosened plates or the like. This was never done. The second thing an accident investigation does is control the cargo. Was it buzzed properly? Was anything loose that could have affected the list and the course of descent? This, Madam President, was never done either. The third obvious – and I believe that the Swedish people have believed that this has happened – is that they interview all the witnesses. The Haveri Commission did not do this either. That is what is important now. There are two parts. On the other hand, it's about investigating the holes and the sinking process. It is probably almost beyond doubt that there must have been a hole under the waterline in order for it to go so unreasonably fast – in 50 minutes the ship sank. On the one hand, it is about the shortcomings of the investigation that exists. That is why, as the Estonian Government has said, we need to have an independent, transparent investigation that can put these pieces in place, for those who survived, for the relatives, for the Swedish people, for the future and for the reasons I have told you about. Otherwise, this gives birth to the suspicion that there have been things that have been kept secret in some way. You need this transparent accident investigation, which can analyze the entire surface of the wreck. Is there one, two or three holes? You also have to look at this with the pictures – the sawed rails on the ramp to the car deck. The picture evidence was there four days after the wreck; the rails were sawn and lay on the hill. Who did it? It has been said from many quarters that no one can do such an operation. This is likely to require the participation of a country around the Baltic Sea. It must be explained, and it has never been done. And we have this with the military transport. What was it anyway? There is an opportunity for the Government to respond to that. When did that information arrive? It has been said that this came up only ten years later, in 2004, through the Mission review. But is it not more likely that this information came much earlier? And was it somehow related to the almost macabre decision to pour huge amounts of concrete over the wreck and not to take up those who had died? It was also shown in the film that divers thought it was much more difficult not to take up everyone you saw there and have to leave them there. These are issues, including when the government received the information. It sounds good with the opening for diving that is now coming, but it must also be done – it must not be delayed. I think about all the parents, too. For example, in Uppsala, 50 died; today there are many parents of children who died. Time is ticking, and now you have to find out what happened to move on.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-35	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that I think we should be careful to draw conclusions, particularly at political level, about exactly what may have caused the holes. This could undermine the work of the accident commissions. I think we should be careful to say that it is almost beyond doubt what caused them. I will not wish to comment on what caused this until the professional work is done. I would like to emphasise that it is the Estonian Commission of Accidents that is leading this work right now, and we have accepted the participation at the request of Estonia; Finland has also done so. I am absolutely sure that they will do this review work very seriously and look at the new data that has come to light. It is easy for us, especially perhaps for me, who, as politicians, were not responsible for or involved in dealing with the issue at the time. It's been quite a while, so I don't think any of us were involved in the handling at the time. It is easy now to have definite views on how to do it in retrospect. I would just like to remind you that because politics found it so difficult to deal with, it chose to appoint an ethical council, which made recommendations to the policy. There may be comments on this. The Ethics Council proposed that the site of the accident be declared a burial site and advised against the salvage of the ship and the bodies. The government decided in December 1994 that the ship should remain in the sea and that the site of the accident should be regarded as a burial site. This decision had been preceded by consultations with the governments of both Estonia and Finland, but also with the party leaders of the parties represented in the Riksdag at the time. It was somehow also a trauma to politics to deal with this issue, and I believe that one should have some respect for this for several decades afterwards. It is extremely important that we really find out what the new tasks can bear on the disaster. I would like to make it beyond doubt that this is our ambition, and that is also what I see, both Estonia's and Finland's ambition in this work. When we talk about military equipment and defence issues, I think it is important to say that there was a discussion about whether Sweden had in any way secretly transported military equipment. It was investigated by Hirschfeldt, who concluded that there had been military transport earlier on a couple of occasions during the month in question, but not the night when the Estonia sank. I think it is important that we do not make too much of a contribution here either. The question is what in the new data could be relevant to the new data that has emerged about how the loss occurred. It must be the shipwreck of the ship and the disaster that lie at the forefront of our work on this. To say that the government would have had any other information on this, I do not think it is quite serious. To be honest – if there is any government that would have known which military transports took place then it would have been a former bourgeois government, with Alf Svensson, Carl Bildt and so on. Nor have they said that they were aware of this, as responsible in the government for the Armed Forces and the military. We have seen no reason to question Hirschfeldt's investigation, which has gone to the bottom of this. But if the new information comes, we'll have to look at it and value it, but I haven't seen any of it anyway. I think it is important to deal with this issue very seriously and methodically. On the question of whether I can now give a lot of information about exactly how things should be done in the future, the answer is that I would rather not, because I want to wait for cooperation with Estonia and Finland; that is what is important.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-46	Madam President, I would like It was a little wrong here. Hirschfeldt never investigated whether there was a military cargo on board during the night of the wreck. He only investigated whether the Swedish Armed Forces or FMV had it. It is also a fact that survivors testify to a military cargo on board. Then it is reasonable to find out who is responsible for it. Then it's about the sinking process. How could it go so hugely fast? Mustn't it have been a hole? Now it's come out in the new movie. Then you have to find out: What was the reason? There are different theories about it, but taking samples is what is available for you to find out. Then there is the picture of sawn rails lying there. What is it? And the question of the military smuggling, which I was dealing with before, also requires an answer. Overall, I think it is now of the utmost importance for Sweden to act. We lost a lot of people. We have a responsibility towards the survivors, the relatives and the Swedish people for the future to make sure to find out everything we can. There are far too many question marks highlighted in the film to just say: We will see. It's been 26 years. That's enough. Now we need to do it again. We need to do the right thing. We need to do the things I said before that were not done to get more facts about how this could happen and make sure that it can never happen again. It is also a question of accountability and perhaps of being able to arrive at compensation. There are far too many questions that need to be answered in order for us to leave this without a thorough investigation.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-51	Madam President, I would like It is an important interpellation about one of the greatest disasters of our time. It is also an important message that we are very much in agreement in the Swedish Parliament that we need to clarify what the new tasks mean for the sinking of the Estonia and the disaster that was. An important question – some questions are asked – is whether I can give you exactly how the investigation should be done. What do you look at and so on? I think it is incredibly important that the Haveri Commission should now do a job. It's about verifying the data. It is quite important that they are allowed to do so, as it has been shown that there are picture material that applies to other holes than just the hole that was in this documentary series. It is also a question of making a first preliminary assessment. What do they think of this? What may have caused this, and how may it have affected? They should also come back to us if they think there is a need for further investigative measures. Then my message is: should it turn out that it is necessary to carry out new underwater investigations, we are prepared to do so. Then we will have to work on it, both with Swedish legislation and perhaps with international agreements. There must be no doubt that we will investigate this in order to get as many answers as we can, linked to the sinking of the Estonia. Otherwise, I would like to say that it is important for me not to give too clear answers about cooperation between Estonia, Finland and Sweden. I do not want to see a contrast created between our countries, that we work a lot together and then I say something that I cannot stand for in cooperation. For me, it is incredibly important to listen to and have a close dialogue with Estonia and Finland. I believe that our three countries have a common interest in carrying out the investigation work as seriously as possible.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-55	Madam President, I would like Katja Nyberg has asked me whether I am prepared to support a special salary effort to improve the conditions for police officers and whether I am open to paid police training in order to fill the places of training with qualified applicants. Katja Nyberg has also asked what further measures I and the government are willing to take to increase police security. Strengthening police work, improving the working conditions of police officers and enabling more police officers to fight crime and increase security throughout the country are priorities for the government. My picture is that the Police Authority is an attractive employer because the number of police officers is increasing, fewer and fewer stop and many of the police officers who have stopped have been reinstated. By the end of June we were halfway to the target of 10,000 more police workers in 2024. This year there are more police officers than ever before in Sweden. The Police Authority has also become better at retaining its staff, and more than one in four police officers who have stopped since 2015 have been reinstated. At the same time, conditions have improved as the average basic salary of police officers has increased by SEK 5 000 per month in recent years, and as of this year the compensation for inconvenient working hours has greatly improved. The Police Authority has a strategy to increase attractiveness so that the right skills can be recruited for the operation. Targeted recruitment campaigns have been implemented, among other things, and a new faster and more flexible admission process has been introduced in the area of police training. Admission requirements have not changed. The new admission process, which has been introduced this year, has nevertheless led to 1 300 having been approved and enrolled in police training, which is a record for a single search round. Paid police training is unlikely to have the desired effect. The interest in becoming a cop is already record high. The Swedish student support system is generously designed and provides many students with financial opportunities to educate themselves. The training of police officers today gives the right to study funds. In addition to the regular student funds, a student may also be entitled to additional loans and grants. Let me state that police officers and everyone else should of course have a safe and secure working environment. In order to continue to strengthen the working conditions and safety of police employees, the work on the working environment on behalf of the Government has intensified in the Police Authority. For example, physical protection measures are being implemented, and the Police Authority has set aside a special pot of money of SEK 50 million per year for these measures. The government has also pushed through enhanced protection for blue-light personnel by introducing blue-light offences as a new crime in the legislation. Another example of measures taken to strengthen employee protection is that the government has initiated new rules on police service cards, which means that police workers no longer have to expose their full name in the performance of their duties. However, the most important factor for a safe working environment is the increase in the number of police officers. The number of police officers will continue to increase sharply in the coming years. The government and the Police Authority have taken several measures to improve conditions and to ensure the working environment, but the government continues, of course, to analyse the need for further proposals to make the day-to-day safety of police workers.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-64	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. There is broad political agreement that more police officers are needed in Sweden. Yet we failed to stop the outflow of people leaving the police force. It is true that there have been a total number of police officers, but it is marginal. In 2019 400 police officers left the profession, and there are about 50 police officers less than in 2018. Over the past five years, 2015– 2019, more than 2,100 police officers have left the profession to do something else, and pension departures are not included. Even if you look at absolute numbers, the development is weak. Between 2010 and 2019 Swedish police have only increased by 131 police officers. Too many police officers are still leaving, mainly because wages have not been sufficiently raised. In addition, Sweden's population has grown with about 1 million inhabitants since 2010. As a result of this development, police density is decreasing. Ten years ago there were 216 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants. Last year the police density in Sweden was 198 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants. The number of police per capita in Sweden is less than two thirds of the EU average. At the same time, Brå's latest safety survey shows that almost every other Swede is concerned about crime in society. It is the highest value since measurements were started. Madam President, I would like While the number of police officers has increased marginally, the Swedish population and serious crime have also increased. In addition, the proportion of police officers working in external service has decreased. Previously classified information from the Police Authority shows that the number of police officers in external service has decreased over the past five years. In 2015, there were 9 226 police officers in external service, and in 2019 there were 9,049 police officers in external service. It's a decrease from 94 to 88 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants. Madam President, I would like Today it is considered a long time if you have worked as an intervention police officer for a year. 20 years ago it was not uncommon to work in external service for 10 to 15 years. These policemen were experienced and able to train the younger colleagues. Unfortunately, the police skills do not exist for the younger people who work in external service. Few experienced police officers and a tough working environment lead to increased insecurity, and this is a contributing factor to police leaving intervention after a relatively short period of time. The reduction in the number of police officers in external service has not only made a mark in the big cities and their exclusion areas. In both smaller and larger municipalities, frustration increases. Villa burglaries skyrocket, and theft leagues can basically just go in and pick up what they want. It has become so bad that people begin to take the law into their own hands through so-called neighbourly cooperation, which can rather be likened to vigilantes. This is definitely not a development we want to see in Sweden. Career opportunities and a safe working environment are important components for keeping police officers. But at the end of the day, it's still pay that records when you have a tough job with bad working hours. Thanks to the Moderates' and Christian Democrats' budget, which the Swedish Democrats voted for, the police received 1 500 SEK more per month through a targeted salary investment. The Home Secretary says the police's salaries have increased by $5,000 in recent years. It is, however, an average. The question is how much the median increased. That's what's interesting. If you have a low salary from the beginning you get less, because it is distributed percentage. The Swedish Democrats have invested almost SEK 11⁄2 billion in a targeted salary investment for Sweden's police officers starting in 2021, which on average would mean an additional SEK 6 000 per month per police officer. This compares with the Moderates, who make the second largest wage bet with about half the amount. In the case of the ob-reimbursement, this is not a substantial increase. On average there has been an increase of SEK 300 per month for a police officer who works three shifts.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-76	Madam President, I would like We seem to agree on the importance of more police officers, that police should have good conditions and that the working environment for the police is very important. However, I am not quite sure that the picture given by the Swedish police today is entirely consistent with what it looks like right now in the Police Authority. We have had several years in a row reduced departures from the police. In fact, staff turnover in the Police Authority is low compared to almost all other authorities, no matter how you count. The fact that every year you record how many people want to enter police training and become police indicates that it is a very attractive and important profession in Sweden. A great many police officers left the profession in connection with the major reorganisation of the Police Authority. It's true. It was a process that afterwards has to be considered whether it was carried out properly, although I basically believe that it is right with a Swedish police authority. I think that will give power and development opportunities for the Police Authority in the future. In retrospect, however, we must be able to say that not everything in that work turned out well. However, about a quarter of those who left the profession then have been re-cruited to the Police Authority, which says something about it being a different feeling today than when you left. Now you want to go back to the police department. I'm not going to fix everything, but we can still agree that housing break-ins have decreased in Sweden in recent years. Only between 2017 and 2019 I believe that housing offences decreased by 35 per cent in Sweden. That's pretty good. It's a very integrity-impairing crime to have your home searched by thieves who turn everything upside down and steal gold or whatever it is that may be after Grandma. This is a huge violation, and we are also working on more stringent legislation there. The interesting thing about this is that the police have really expanded their cooperation with, for example, neighbourly cooperation, which produces very good results. I certainly do not want to say that neighbourly cooperation is vigilante. Neighboring is one of the best we have achieved in cooperation between the Police Authority and civil society, and it is really producing results. Now we are doing the same type of collaboration with many private actors linked to international theft leagues that steal, for example, boat engines and other such equipment. There's a lot to do together to make it harder for these criminal gangs to break in and steal things. With the expansion and wage increases that have been made, I believe that the lawsuit is quite different in the Police Authority today. People in external service notice that there have been changes, and this will continue in the future because the Police Authority will not succeed with the goal of becoming 10 000 more police workers by 2024 unless it is an attractive profession to be a police officer. I'm not saying I'm happy with the way things look today. If not so many had left at the reorganisation and if the number of police training places had not been reduced by 90 percent, we would have had more police officers today. That's it. We've been forced to work on it, and now we're seeing an even greater interest in becoming a cop. The new admission system also seems to be adapted and work very well for those who want to become police students in the future. I will continue to work for the police to grow, to secure their work environment and to work with other things related to the conditions and legislation that the police need to have in their backs when fighting crime.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-86	Madam President, I would like It is true that interest in police training has increased. Yet the number of empty seats at the Police College has increased. Four out of ten seats are empty today, a few weeks into the training. Last spring they wanted to train 1,020 new police officers, but after three weeks there were only 606 students left. In the long term, the Police Authority estimates that you need to train up to 1 120 people per semester, which means you need to have even more applicants to fill the places. If the places are not filled, it does not matter how many new courses are opened up. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats were the first to propose more educated police officers in the autumn of 2015. As the government has subsequently acted slowly towards about the same goal and in order for it to be possible to reach the target, the Swedish Democrats have highlighted proposals for a targeted salary investment and paid police training with a proper salary. By making police training paid, one can attract another group that is in the middle of life and that would otherwise not be able to change careers. The quota that is now being applied for is clearly not enough to fill the seats at the Police College. The police profession therefore needs to be further upgraded through significantly higher salaries, security-building measures and incentives that attract more applicants. That is why I wonder why the Minister for the Interior is not open to finding more ways, such as paid education, to attract applicants who could not apply by simply taking out student loans. We agree that the Swedish police are too few to carry out their mission today. Therefore, it is important to continue to make substantial efforts on the police. However, not only more resources are needed, but the Police Authority itself can also be more effective. Policemen today have a lot of work to do that could be done by other than trained police officers. The Police Authority also needs to review how their resources are used internally. One way is to ask the employees about how they experience the activities of the Political Authority. However, the latest police employee survey was carried out in 2013. The management has promised that there would be a new one in 2016. Now it is 2020, and there is still no new study. Why, one might wonder. Madam President, I would like More things that the Police Authority could look at internally are the large communications department with around 200 employees. This can be compared to Svenska Dagbladet, which has a total of 160 employees. Police HR has 930 employees. Since May 2019, the number has increased by 12 per cent. As if it wasn't enough with the major communications department, the police are also buying PR services. A large part of this money could instead be spent on the core business. I wonder why the police spend so much on communication and PR instead of prioritising core business. For example, lucky secretaries could be employed to assist police intervention in debriefing, provide a substantial increase in wages that would benefit the police numerary, or increase the ob-reimbursement rate to keep police officers working on awkward working hours. The fact that a large part of the police money is spent on administration should be a matter of concern to a responsible minister. It is surely the responsibility of the Minister for the Interior to ensure that the tax resources are adequately distributed. I don't really understand the purpose of such a large communication department in the police department, and that's why I want to hear a little more about it.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-96	Madam President, I would like We will continue to work to expand the police. We have more than doubled the number of people starting police training, and we have never adopted as many students at the same time as at the last admission with the new admission process. Now there is an opportunity to apply for and be accepted for the start of education that lies a number of semesters ahead. This is a huge advantage for those who apply for police training: they have guaranteed a place in police training and can therefore plan life. I therefore really believe that the new admission system has played a role in recruitment. The question must also be asked why the police who are training should now have paid police training when those who have trained have not had it in the past. If there's so much search pressure-- there's never been as many people that have been adopted as the last time-- is it right to turn into a paid police training course? That doesn't seem to be where the problem is. Rather, there has been a shortage of educational opportunities for a long time so that this government has had to catch up. Now that the HR department has grown, I can say that's where the police educators are. They're the ones working on the two new police training courses to make sure police students become trained police officers. The whole organization has to keep up with it when it's going to grow. There's an important question about people in the middle of life. It was a small problem when many of the applicants were very young. They dreamed of becoming cops, but too few were in the middle of life. Now we are beginning to see a slight increase in a little older, more experienced people seeking police training. I have also had a close dialogue with the Police Authority, which says that distance education should be expanded more. I personally believe that it is an important way to reach people in the middle of life. It can also apply to those in rural areas in Sweden, so that they can stay with their families when they train to be a police officer. There are a number of issues that we definitely have to work on. Wages and conditions are such issues, and at regular intervals we have to ask ourselves whether we have the effect that we have expected from the expansion of the police force. After all, the Riksdag devotes a great deal of resources to expand the Police Authority, and we expect results. The most important thing that I will be directing towards with the Police Authority is that there will be more district police around Sweden. They will come out, increase security and be visible all over Sweden. I do not think that the Swedish Parliament would accept that we are expanding the Police Authority in this way without seeing more police officers around Sweden. I think it would be wise if the Swedish parliament or government did not regulate exactly how the police should organise their activities in detail, but left it to the chief police officer. It is an authority, and it also has a great responsibility to organise its activities so that it is as effective as possible with the resources available and, above all, with all the resources it now receives.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-103	Madam President, I would like Barely 30 years ago, policemen had paid training to get more policemen, and the military has paid training. There's nothing strange about it really, if you want to attract more applicants. You need something like that to get older people to look for it. I have friends in my 40s who want to apply for education, but they can't because they won't get their finances together. It's an incentive to get more applicants. Let me return to the issue of the Communications Department. That's the question I'm thinking about most. Why have such a large communication department in the police department? In addition, the overall goal for 2020 – 2024 is to strengthen the reputation and confidence of the police. Why invest more on surface than on content? I don't quite understand. Then there was the question of controlling the police's activities. There is a difference between steering operational activities towards steering at an overall level to see how the Police Authority allocates its resources. I understand that the Minister of the Interior cannot poke into the operative parts of the Political Authority, but does the Minister of the Interior think that it is entirely up to the Police Authority to allocate its resources? Nevertheless, the government spent almost 30 1⁄2 billion in its budget on the Police Authority. Then not caring about how that money is distributed sounds to me a little strange.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-106	Madam President, I would like In view of Katja Nyberg's final comment, I must be very clear, namely that the government has high expectations of the Police Authority. When the agency receives so much more money, when it expands so greatly and will continue to do so until 2024, then we expect results in the fight against crime, that people feel more security and more district police across the country. That is what we focus so much on. On the other hand, it is always difficult to draw a line on what politics should govern. Much of the administrative support has an enormous impact on the functioning of the police forces in external service. All the digital initiatives made by the Police Authority, where police officers can search for license plates directly when they see a car, body cameras that increase security in sharp situations, are important issues to decide over and resource for the Police Authority as a whole to work well. This is why it is a good initiative when the Police Authority, for example, decides with the union representatives that a pot of money should work with security issues for the employees and how to use that money in the best possible way. The Police Authority will involve the trade union organisations in the work. That's a wise way to work. We will continue to monitor the police authority and how it grows, that it is visible throughout the country and that it produces results both in terms of reducing crime and in terms of increased security for citizens.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-110	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what preventive measures I intend to take so that everyday delinquency is reduced for those living outside our urban centres. The interpellant has also asked what action I intend to take to ensure that the number of police officers in external service is also increasing in Gävleborg. Finally, Lars Beckman has asked me what other measures I intend to take to increase the security of residents living in areas where police density is low. Sweden should be a safe country to live in. It requires a strong judicial system, an accessible police force and effective legislation. Increasing the number of police workers is a prerequisite for better accessibility throughout the country. From the government's side, we will continue our hard work to improve the conditions for the police to carry out their mission. Here the expansion of the Police Authority is a central part. By mid-year we were halfway to our target of 10,000 more police workers, and nearly 3,000 police students are on their way out in the coming years. It is also gratifying that fewer police officers end up in the agency. From the government's side, we expect that as the Police Authority grows, the presence of police officers in society must also increase. This applies, of course, throughout the country, not just in the big cities. It is not only the Police Authority that can help to increase security and reduce the risk of crime. Among other things, business life and its professional organisations are important actors in crime prevention, and cooperation at local level is of central importance. In the crime prevention work, the ring's crime prevention programme, Together against crime, provides a good starting point for long-term and sustainable crime prevention work throughout society. The Government has also implemented several legislative changes in the area of criminal law, and a new Camera Protection Act has been introduced that facilitates, among other things, trade security work. On 24 September, the Government decided on the Council of State referral on access bans to stores and reinforced criminal protection against criminal offences. In the legislative referral, the Government proposes a new qualification basis on systematics in the penal provisions on gross theft and gross heeling. The aim is to give greater consideration to the ystematic elements of theft and heel crimes. The Government also considers that the violation of the right to be robbed of a dwelling or other similar accommodation should be taken into account to a greater extent than is currently the case. The government therefore also proposes to introduce a new crime known as burglary with a so-called traffic scale on prison for at least one and a maximum of six years. It is important that those who repeatedly commit drug-driving and other traffic offences can be adequately punished and prevented from committing new crimes. This government has increased the possibility of vehicle confiscation in the event of repeated traffic crime. At present, proposals are also being made to increase the maximum penalty for, among other things, drunk driving and heavy driving to one year's imprisonment. In addition to more stringent penalties, these proposals allow the driver to be detained, if necessary, already in connection with a police intervention. In addition, the Government has commissioned an investigator to analyse, among other things, the conditions for introducing screening tests to help people drive a drug-affected. The government has therefore taken a large number of measures to strengthen both crime prevention and law enforcement. The government's work continues unabated.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-116	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the many-worded answer, Minister. I thought of going back to reality – the reality for those who live in Hälsingland and Kilafors, for example. Madam President, I would like It's not surprising that the media focus on blasts, high-profile murders, children executed on open street in Stockholm– well, we know everything that has happened. But something that may fly under the radar of the media, at least the national media, is the greatly increased crime of everyday life. That's what my interpellation is about. I was in Kilafors, which is a fantastic place outside Bollnäs in Hälsingland. If the Government has ever gone to Åre, as some Stockholmers do, he knows that you pass the roundabout in the village of Kilafors. There you have huge problems with everyday crime. The newspaper Hela Hälsingland puts the headline: So it is written about the desperate cry of the inhabitants for help. Breaking and entering, vandalism, drug drunks and threats are the reality of those living in Kilafors. I went to see them. The Government says in its reply that civil cooperation with the police is a good thing, and this has been the case in Kilafors since 2003. Since 2003, you have a village guard. The village guard has a fantastically good order in the village, if I may say so. You know which individuals commit the crimes, and you know which individuals drive vehicles drug-affected. Imagine being a mother in Kilafors and having a seven - year - old daughter going to school about the time that the mother knows it drives a drug - affected person on the road every day! You know that. This is told to the police over and over again. It was even the case that one of the people in the village guard was stabbed. Imagine the horror of having a robbery on your own farm and being threatened with a knife! You call the police, and the police say, "We don't have the resources. There's no police car to send. 中 Imagine the frustration that you have been stabbed on your own farm and that the police's answer is:. There is no car to send. ..................................................... The situation is so serious that the people of Kilafors did not want to speak in public when the media met them at the meeting I attended. You don't want to put your name in the paper, because you know it would mean terrible harassment. Citizens perceive that there are too few police officers, and those who work lack the resources. They say the legislation is too weak. This is the reality, Madam President. This is the reality in Sweden 2020 for those living in the country. Of course, this everyday crime is not as spectacular as when a child is shot down on an open street in Stockholm, but it is the reality for those who live in Hälsingland. It is the reality of those who live in Hofors and the reality of those who live in a village outside Ljusdal. It is a resignation you can feel when you do not get the support of society and do not feel the security of society, and that is why I would like to repeat my question: What will the government do that has bearing on the reality that exists outside our urban centres?
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-122	Madam President and the Government. I'd like to ask you a few questions about everyday crime in my hometown of Norrtälje. Upstairs, we've made it from gang crime, so far, I'll tell you... but we have a lot of other crime. It is organized by leagues that often come from across the Baltic Sea. There are burglaries in holiday homes, which are being done with increasing insolence – especially now that it is autumn and beginning to darken. There's a lot of theft of boat engines. Neighborly cooperation has been established to lift this, but there are still major thefts. Sometimes the gangs are so brazen that they go to the yards at night, when the storm blows so they can't be heard. Then they cut off the rear mirrors and steal Yamaha engines – only Yamaha engines, no others. I do not think there is service to other engines on the other side of the Baltic Sea. My question to the Government is: why does it not give customs more power to stop the vans that carry out the stolen goods in ports? I think it would be appropriate for customs officials to have the right to open the lockers and search without suspecting that there are dead people or stolen goods in the car. They should have it as a routine. I would like a proposal to be drawn up on that, so that is my question.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-125	Madam President, I would like I thank Mikael Damberg very much for all the efforts made at the Police Authority. But what should I tell Stenungsund about everyday crime, which continues? There are rapes. A rape was brought to the attention of Lamotte at national Lamotte, and then something happened to that particular crime. Before that, a mother testified about a man who mocked her when she met him locally in Stenungsund. Now, last time, we have a woman who was beaten by three men while she was out walking the dog. We have organized crime going all the way down to the beggars outside the shops – beggars being picked up in fancy cars. The question to Minister Mikael Damberg, Madam President, is: What is being done about the everyday crimes that take place in Stenungsund?
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-127	Madam President, I would like I am putting together a couple of questions about what we are doing to combat everyday crime and, above all, about police presence. Because it is absolutely central to this – without a police officer present, it is very difficult to prioritise everyday crime. It is difficult to cooperate with boat clubs or the municipality if there are no police officers present who have the time and energy to do so. The basic answer, then, is that we are now expanding the police force very strongly throughout the country and that at the moment it is actually plus in the growth of all police regions – except in Stockholm, which is a bit strange. However, they have other challenges in Stockholm because so many police employees are actually taken to other tasks. It is therefore a somewhat worrying situation in Stockholm. It can be said that we are only going halfway and that we have 5 000 left, but it is still the case that 4 000 of the 5 000 with which we have reinforced the Police Authority are civil servants. So they are not seen in society in that way. They can relieve the load so that more police can be out doing the work in the streets and squares, but it is actually a lot of civilian employees it is all about. Because it was the first phase. Moreover, as you know, it takes two and a half years to train new police officers. With regard to everyday crime, I would like to say that there are some different images in general. It also gets a little different in different parts of the country. I start with Kjell Jansson's important questions about international theft leagues, because they account for a very large part of the burglaries in Sweden today. They account for a lot of boat theft, and they account for a lot of theft of building equipment and so on – they change the mode pretty well from where they get the money. So it's an organized form of crime. We also know that they come from a number of countries, so the first step in this is to prevent more people from entering Sweden at all. If you have committed crimes before, you are not automatically entitled to enter Sweden. So it's about working more with border police and stopping the theft gangs from coming in. We have also had cooperation between police, coastguard and customs where they have collaborated more intelligence-based to work against these international theft leagues. All the authorities say that they have become better at tracking and mapping theft leagues, but collaborations with boat clubs and others have produced huge results where they have made it work. So we should not underestimate prevention. The concrete question was when customs could be given new powers. There is such a proposal out for a referral right now. The Ministry of Finance has sent out a proposal to give customs new powers to stop at the border. We will see what the consultation bodies say about this, but I look forward to it being implemented. It is a long-awaited change in the Customs Agency's powers to be able to contribute even more concretely in the search for international theft leagues.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-133	Madam President, I would like I was going to return to reality in Hälsingland... to reality in Kilafors. It might as well be a village in Norrbotten or somewhere else, but right now it is Kilafors. The reality is the same in many places in Sweden. What do the police say? They tell the newspaper Ljusnan that the unrest in Kilafors is well known to the police. According to the local police, this is a priority matter, but at the same time the laws limit what the police's efforts can achieve. Local police say it's just as frustrating for them. The person who speaks further says that this is nothing new to them and that they have had it as a priority for a long time. Basically, it is about criminality linked to addiction, possession of drugs, drug drunks and theft. The police work actively with the bypass and have had dialogue meetings with the police, investigators and prosecutors. The person who speaks further says that it is a very committed society that is good at informing the police. They are contacted almost daily and receive reports of what is happening. According to her, the problems revolve around a few people with substance abuse problems. She also says that despite the fact that the police really prioritise the prevention and law enforcement work in Kilafors, there are limits to what the police can achieve. It's just as frustrating for us," she says. If we had a different type of legislation, we could lock them up today," says the police to the newspaper Ljusnan. It's just as frustrating for us, says the police. Many times the problem is that the crimes committed do not justify arrest. Although the crimes themselves are serious, they are often not serious enough to involve prison, for example. The article then continues to tell us what the police are doing. This, Madam President, is the reality of a village in Hälsingland. Then you can listen to the minister's answer. Is there anything the Minister said in his answer to my question that bears what the police say? At least I can't find anything. There is not a response that has been given so far by the Government in this debate, bearing in mind the problem raised by the local police in Kilafors. In the same article, the police warn against the risk to vigilantes when citizens feel abandoned, lonely and vulnerable and when the crimes are not cleared up. We do not want that in Sweden. Even those living in Hälsingland pay taxes. Even those living in Kilafors have the right to security. It is clear that it is a failure for the rule of law when it can travel drug-driving day after day. I can't even imagine the frustration I would feel as a mother in Kilafors knowing that my seven-year-old daughter can be run over by a drug-driver driver known to society and the police – as everyone knows. Yet it takes place day after day. This everyday crime is tearing up Sweden. This everyday crime makes people feel abandoned. This everyday crime must be solved, and in reality I mean – not in rhetoric in Parliament's pulpit but in reality, so that the local police in Kilafors also receive the support of society.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-144	Madam President, I would like It's great that investments are made – I thank Mikael Damberg once again for this. But we have grocery stores that have beggars outside and testify to people who more or less just go in and get goods. These people cannot get the shops gated already at the doors. Instead, they come in, and business spends a lot of resources following the people. Then they shoplift, and then follow a process where they go out through the gates and then be picked up again while the police are waiting. This takes a lot of resources. Why should business not be allowed to port these people who do not intend to enter a store and shop, pay and do the right thing? This is a burden on us taxpayers. These resources should be used for other purposes; they should be used for more police in external service. Madam President, I would like I am sending with the responsible Minister Mikael Damberg these suggestions for improvements and hope that he will do something good with them.
i-7EJCwG5vEHED6L7oT8myMx	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sofia Westergren and Lars Beckman, for further discussion in this interpellation debate! I'm a little surprised, though. It is possible that I spoke very unclearly in my answer, but to Lars Beckman I said this: It is important that those who repeatedly commit drug-driving and other traffic offences can be adequately punished and prevented from committing new crimes. This government has increased the possibility of vehicle confiscation in the event of repeated traffic crime. At present, proposals are also being made to increase the maximum penalty for, among other things, drunk driving and heavy driving to one year's imprisonment. In addition to more stringent penalties, these proposals allow the driver to be detained, if necessary, already in connection with a police intervention. I think this is a fair answer to the problem described by the interpeller. It's the same with Sofia Westergren. I said that on September 24, the government decided on a Council of Law referral on just a ban on access to a store. I understand that this is exactly what Members of Parliament are asking for, so it feels like we are in the process. But even with these legislative changes, again, there will be problems if there are no local police officers who can follow up an entry ban or if there is no intervention against drunk driving, for example by introducing new screening tests so that the police can see locally that someone has been driving drugs. When I listen to Members' speeches, I feel that we have exactly the same agenda. Proposals are either already in legislative referrals or are under way. I believe that we can continue this discussion and, above all, have quite a consensus that these crimes should be combated. It will be done in rather broad political agreement, it seems that when I listen to the debate.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-153	Madam President, I would like Rhetoric is one thing; good ambitions are another. But the reality for those who live in Kilafors is the important thing, at least for me as a elected Member of Parliament for Gävleborg. It is good that the government has ambitions. The Moderates, together with other parties in the Committee on Justice, have issued announcements after announcement and demanded that the government act. It is when the government starts delivering – when things really happen – that local police in Kilafors can actually ensure that these people are arrested and prosecuted and that cars and other things are seized. That is not the case today. This has been going on for a number of years, as the police say in the article in the newspaper Ljusnan. They say they know about this. The problem exists, but nothing has happened. That's the reality. There is a large and broad political consensus that security in Sweden must increase, but it is the government's responsibility to present a working law to the Swedish parliament. When the government does so, we shall of course approve those proposals, because wherever you live in Sweden you must have the right to security. The police should feel support wherever they work in Sweden. I guess we'll meet here again in six months, and we'll see if this particular situation is resolved or not. I do not know what the time perspective is for Minister Damberg, but I can ask the question: when does the Government believe that the measures presented by the Government will have some kind of effect on those living in a village in Hälsingland?
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-158	Madam President, I would like I think it has been a clarification debate that shows that the government is doing a great deal and, above all, has several proposals coming up, which seems to be supported by a broad parliamentary majority. That sounds good. The fact that we are expanding such a large authority as the Police Authority in such a short time and as powerful as we are now with almost a third is unprecedented in modern times and will give effect throughout the country, also in Gävleborg. But we must be careful to believe that the police can only investigate all crimes. It is also about what the rest of society is doing, for example in substance abuse care or other measures that not only ensure that crime is not consolidated and continues, but that there are also preventive measures that mean that the police not only need to investigate crime. In the areas that we have discussed today, there is a powerful supply in the pipeline. I look forward to continuing to discuss this and, above all, to advertising everything the government does.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-160	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures I intend to take to curb the widespread fraud in various sectors of the economy and what measures I intend to take to ensure that state-owned companies follow good business practice and thus set an example. The goal of industrial policy is to strengthen Swedish competitiveness and create the conditions for more jobs in more and growing companies. Well-functioning markets with good framework conditions are a fundamental prerequisite. It should not pay to cheat or break regulations in order to gain benefits. This is particularly important in the current work to create the conditions for the recovery of business. The government is actively working to curb cheating, including by increasing the control possibilities of public authorities and by creating the conditions for increased cooperation between public authorities. The Government has proposed in the legislative referral the Competition Authority's powers to increase the powers of the Competition Authority in the supervision of national and EU competition rules. The Swedish Tax Agency's and the Swedish Growth Agency's control of support has also been extended earlier during the year. Since before, eight agencies with the Swedish Work Environment Agency have been tasked with developing methods of joint control to combat cheating, violations of rules and crime at work. The Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Ecocrime Agency are also part of the work. The authorities carry out, among other things, workplace checks. Madam President, I would like To support business during the ongoing pandemic, the government has taken a large number of measures. In parallel, an investigator, former National Police Commissioner Stefan Strömberg, has been appointed to analyse and propose measures that reduce the risk of crime and fraud linked to the Corona-related support measures that have economic and fiscal consequences. Madam President, I would like As far as state-owned companies are concerned, the government's ownership policy requires them to act in an exemplary manner in the area of sustainable entrepreneurship and also otherwise act in such a way that they enjoy public confidence. It is of particular importance that state-owned companies work for a healthy and safe working environment, good business ethics and active anti-corruption work, and responsible tax practices. In addition, state-owned companies must ensure that abuse is not made of the special status which it may entail being a company with State ownership. The Government continuously monitors the work of state-owned companies in this area, including through ownership dialogues.
i-X7FmeBN39eEuVz1NHgy9RA	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Ibrahim Baylan! I listened earlier to a very interesting debate about the police, the security of society and so on. Damberg said in his concluding speech that it is important what the rest of society does. I see this as a contribution that we must all set a good example in all that we do. Then it is extremely important that the state companies and the companies that the state has to govern set an example. There are some elements in the answer that I would like to have developed a little. The goal of the industry policy is to strengthen Swedish competitiveness and create the conditions for more jobs in more and growing companies. In the same paragraph, it says: In the next paragraph, the Government is actively working to curb fraud, including by increasing the control possibilities of authorities and by creating the conditions for increased cooperation between authorities. This is good, but what does it mean in practice? Not long ago, the Government and I had a debate on Postnord and on some occasions they had been reported for unauthorised cabotage. I find it a bit embarrassing that state companies end up in a situation where they can actually be accused of not complying with the rules. The Government promised that he would have a discussion with Postnord's leadership, and I assume that has happened. Nevertheless, headlines are created where government companies figure by cheating and not complying with the rules. I would very much like an answer from the Government on how the state should work more intensively to prevent this type of activity. I will go into this a little bit in the next speech. I find it embarrassing for the state to appear repeatedly in newspaper articles about non-compliance. At the same time, the state is pointing the whole hand at us citizens and saying that we must comply with the legislation. I have no problem with people following the law, but I think the state should go first and lead the way. And then you shouldn't go first and show the way by typifying in headlines where you're accused of cheating. Government companies should be too good for that. In the last, final paragraph of the answer, it says this: That sounds great. But what does the government do in practical action to make it really so?
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-172	Madam President, I would like In a perfect world with perfect people, we would not have to discuss these kinds of issues. But now neither Thomas Morell nor I are perfect or for that matter our society or the world we live in. On the other hand, we must strive to prevent fraud and corruption as far as possible, because in itself it undermines what is fundamental to our market economy, namely the conditions for competition, but also, of course, the confidence and legitimacy of society. If this were to happen on a large scale, we would have problems with trust between people and therefore also with the way society is built. In Sweden, Madam President, over the years we have had quite a lot of faith in each other. That trust is still there according to all the measurements that exist. We have also had relatively little corruption in comparison with many other countries, thanks to the principle of public access and very clear rules. But that does not mean, Madam President, that it does not exist. Nor does it mean that there is no risk of it being present. It is against this background, Madam President, that I am talking about the importance of clear laws and rules and their follow-up. It is not because you should walk around and suspect people unnecessarily. But we must have this in place because shortcomings have occurred before and will also occur in the future, because we live neither in a perfect country nor in a perfect world. This means that we must have a control apparatus, and that is why we are tightening up the regulatory framework, just as I read out. We have tightened up the possibility for authorities to follow up and prosecute crimes, and we will continue to put forward proposals at Parliament's table on further efforts, and I outlined some of them. We are doing this because it is so important that competition takes place on fair terms, that we have sound values and that the ethics of business, regardless of companies, do not become corrupt but just healthy. Madam President, I would like In these difficult pandemic times, when the public, the taxpayer, provides direct support, guarantees, credits and more of 600 – 700 billion to the Swedish business community, this is particularly important. It is against this background that we have taken further steps during the year to both prevent and prosecute any shortcomings so that it will not be possible to get away with them. Madam President, I would like We are making greater demands on state companies, precisely for the reasons mentioned by Thomas Morell. They should set an example. We have a large number of companies in the state portfolio, either wholly or partly owned, with a value of 600 – 700 billion. These 45 - 46 companies employ tens of thousands of people, with all that means. However, we are not just content to make extra demands, but if there are shortcomings, we will follow it up immediately. If regulations are broken, we have a legal system in which this is to be prosecuted, and that applies to the state companies as well as everyone else. In addition, these are issues that we raise in every ownership dialogue with companies where there have been shortcomings. I can assure Thomas Morell that there is no need to doubt that we do.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-180	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. No, no, no, no. No, no, no. No, no, no, no. No, no, no. We have our flaws, and that makes us human. But there is a heavenly difference between making a mistake and deliberately doing something to usurp benefits. There are different ways of committing crimes. One way is by hand: stealing, beating or even murdering. Those crimes are more obvious. But you can also commit crimes that at first sight do not look like a criminal act, but when you go deep into the matter you can see that it is illegal. Here we sometimes find state and municipal companies that do not comply with the regulations. This caused one of my former colleagues in the traffic police to react, so he wrote a debate article. I'll read a few from it. When two Swedish vehicles were stopped and found driving on double driver cards, the cup ran over for car inspector Patrick Zetterberg in Eskilstuna when he heard the reason. "All state and municipal companies have to start paying for themselves when they procure transport," he says. When they don't pay what it costs, it doesn't just open up to cheating and stress. Without it, Swedish haulage companies are also running bankruptcies. ..................................................... It was Monday evening, 28 September, that two Swedish vehicles were stopped shortly after each other close to Åker Skåtebruk. A car and trailer and a gravel car had to share a checkpoint. Two Swedish vehicles with Swedish drivers. Both drivers used double driver cards. ..................................................... 中 Driver changes that take 15 seconds give a strong indication that something is wrong and the additional driver card used in one vehicle belonged to a man in his 80s who did not hold a YKB. In the second vehicle, the additional driver card was in the tachograph," says Patrick Zetteberg. ..................................................... A YKB is a certificate of professional competence, which gives the right to drive professionally. Now I apologise for the language, Madam President, but I read literally what the article says. This really pisses me off. When hauliers run for state and municipal companies and can't get it together, then something is very wrong. If a haulage company does not want to cheat and then does not pass the assignment, there is also an obvious risk that the haulage company loses the assignment, says Patrik Zetterberg. ..................................................... It is this reality that is out there. There are government and municipal actors who force cheating. If you read a little carefully in what regulates traffic legislation, it says that you must not behave in that way, but you must pay and do the right thing. This applies to both private and state-owned companies. It is a concern when it becomes legitimate for the state and the municipality to behave in this way. Then you do not go with the banner at the front and show the way for healthy business. This concerns me. I very much hope that the Government will put its foot down and tell us where the cabinet should stand, because if it is something government and municipal companies should do, it is to comply with the legislation. They have to show the way for how to do right, not for how to cheat.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-191	Madam President, I would like No, that's it. That is also why we are making clear demands. This is not a general statement, but a part of the state's ownership policy. There is also continuous and regular dialogue with these companies. If there are shortcomings, and it does not have to be illegality or cheating, but may be something that borders on things that we do not think follow ownership policy, we will raise it and will have it explained either if there is a misunderstanding or corrected if a mistake has been made. Is it, however, a violation of the law, just as Thomas Morell says, laws and regulations? In addition, we have tightened up these, much because of past wild West mentality, not least in foreign hauliers who have been able to compete in this way. We have rewritten the rules and improved the European system, and we have pushed in the country. Madam President, I would like We've also sent resources to the police. It is well known that we aim to have another 10 000 police officers by 2024, precisely in order not only to have clear rules, expectations and laws, but also to be able to follow up. Although I have great faith in people, we must have a control apparatus to ensure that laws and rules are complied with. As far as the state-owned companies are concerned, we have taken further steps during the year. In addition to the fact that in the state's ownership policy we have clear expectations that the companies should be exemplary, ethically and more, we then last spring also demand that the companies ensure that procured subcontractors have collective agreements. There have been problems, not always of an illegal nature, but still such that we have to ask ourselves what development we want in this country. There should be no slightest doubt that a Social Democratic-led government with the Social Democrats and the Green Party will always stand up for the employees and ensure that there are fair conditions. Competition is good but must not mean dumping wages or cheating on success. It affects not only individual companies but, in the long run, the whole labour market if we do not maintain the requirements of fair conditions. We do this through laws, regulations and clear expectations of the state companies. Madam President, I would like Does this mean that we will never again see shortcomings? No, because we are talking about people, there will certainly be shortcomings in the future too. That is why it is particularly important to be clear. If it's a violation of the law, it should be prosecuted, and Thomas Morell knows it. However, if there are repeated mistakes, it should be pointed out that the company corrects it. We can't have a situation where success is achieved by cheating, because then we're on a sloping level and neither Thomas Morell nor I want it.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-199	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There's a difference between making a mistake. We can all do that, and that does not make us better or worse people in such a situation. It is the conscious cheating that is a concern when you deliberately commit an act that is contrary to the law. That's where we have a problem. To be honest, it bothers me when the state's shirt is no longer white but stained. In any case, the state must comply with the legislation. Then you can step wrong at some point, but then you have to back down and do the right thing. It's no worse than that. But when you read articles time and time again and again you get telephone calls from those who are active in the business and are told that you do not comply with the legislation and then sweep it under the carpet, it becomes wrong, because the state must show the way for what it should be like when it is a healthy and fair market. Then the shirt must not be stained. This is extremely important. The state also plays an extremely important role in setting the bar in society. If the state sets the bar at a low level, it cannot be expected that others set the bar at a higher level. That's where we have the problem. I sincerely hope that I do not need to have a debate like this again with the Government in the future, but that we can look forward to state companies taking the flag high in the future. That individuals in the state can make mistakes, we have to live with, because it's people we're talking about. But as I said, it's a completely different five.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-204	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for an urgent question! I would even go further and say that it is probably not even enough that the shirt is white, but it is important that what is under the shirt also lasts. It is against this background that we have changed the state ownership policy and now demand that you look at your subcontractors and the procurements you make – that there are nice conditions there too. It may well be that the shirt is very white, and I would say that all state companies are doing their utmost to ensure that this is the case. But it is not enough just to look at your own business, not least when we are talking about the type of haulage business that Thomas Morell is talking about. Then it is important to ensure, as far as possible, that not only the shirts but also what is underneath are clean and nice. Madam President, I would like It depends on a very simple thing. Unlike Thomas Morell, I am born in a country where corruption is a cancerous disease, where cheating occurs very often and where this basically eats on community trust and community. This makes economic and democratic development difficult in such countries. For me it's not just about some individual company here or some single rule there, but basically it's about something that's very nice about Swedish society, namely protecting what's trust, openness and – compared to many other countries – a low degree of corruption. We must safeguard it because it is valuable, not only for economic reasons but also for inter-human reasons, Madam President.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-209	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me whether I intend to tighten the penalties or take other measures to counteract a negative development with violent and sexual crimes. The Government has implemented a number of changes to legislation on violent crime. For example, penalties have been tightened for, among other things, aggravated assault, particularly aggravated assault, aggravated robbery and gross illegal threat. Since the turn of the year, the punishment for murder has also been tightened in order for the life sentence to be considered to a much greater extent than in the past. The government has also reformed sexual crime legislation. Since 2018, the regulatory framework has been based on voluntaryity. It is no longer necessary for the offender to have used violence or threats or to exploit the victim's particularly vulnerable situation in order to be convicted of rape, for example. Special negligence on certain serious sexual offences has also been imposed, and the minimum penalty for gross rape and rape of children has been raised from four years in prison to five years in prison. The government is now continuing to review the legislation. The mandate for the 2020 Sex Crime Investigation includes, among other things, reviewing the scale of penalties for sexual crimes, and within the framework of the Government's 34-point programme against gang crime, more stringent penalties for legal abuse, drug sales, crimes related to criminal settlements and those involving young people in crime are investigated. Also the issue of an increased presumption of detention when serious crimes, such as aggravated assault, are committed within the framework of criminal networks are investigated. The government is therefore carrying out very active work in the field of criminal law. But that's not enough. Coping with crime also requires developed prevention. The government's crime prevention initiative creates the conditions for structured and long-term work throughout society, and within the framework of the 34-point programme, the government has announced further measures. These include an investment in schools and social services in socio-economically vulnerable areas and a legislative responsibility for municipalities to work crime prevention. It is also a fact that the vast majority of sexual crimes are committed by men and that most of the victims of such crimes are girls and women. In the fight against men's violence against women, one of the objectives is an enhanced and effective prevention of violence. Combating sexual crime is central to the development of violence prevention efforts. The government is doing a very active work in this area, including extensive investments in the country's girls' and women's shelters. In the budget proposal for 2021, the Government also proposes that the county boards' work against men's violence against women, honour-related violence and oppression, as well as prostitution and human trafficking be permanently strengthened and that the municipalities' relapse prevention efforts against violence in close relationships be strengthened. Those affected by crime need help and support. The Government has carried out a comprehensive investment in society's victim support organisations. The government has also improved the opportunities for victims and witnesses to participate in trials through videoconferencing. An ongoing investigation also addresses issues such as protection of and support for witnesses.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-216	Madam President, I would like I agree with Morgan Johansson when he says, but it is not enough about the government's policy in the field of criminal law. He is also right that it is a fact that the vast majority of sexual crimes are committed by men, but he chose to stay there in his analysis instead of considering whether there are other common denominators in many of the sex offenders in addition to gender. It's a bit like when TV4 this week specifically pointed out taxi drivers who overrepresented among sex offenders without mentioning anything further about what taxi drivers tend to have in common in addition to just driving taxis. Morgan Johansson also mentions some old SD proposals that the government has worked for, but quite regardless of the government's policy leaves a lot to be desired even if the rhetoric look that closely is both high and strict. I described in my interpellation text how the murder of Tommie Lindh and its aftermath represent a snapshot of Sweden's failed integration and criminal policy. The 19-year-old Tommie was murdered in May when he tried to protect a female acquaintance from a threatening immigrant. Although the nature of the crime and the history behind it are likely to be present in all media, the initial reporting was sparse in scope and detail. Instead, the aftermath was marked by the demonization of Tommie's alleged, but family-rejected, political views. However, this haughty rhetoric quickly died out when the pre-trial protocol came out, and now they have fallen. The now convicted is a 23-year-old man from Sudan who, in addition to the murder of Tommie, was also convicted of aggravated rape, rape, grossly illegal threats and attempted aggravated assault. The Sudanese has been known by the police since before and has been convicted of, among other things, shoplifting and sexual harassment of a girl under 15 years of age. In the case of sexual harassment, the court took account of his age, when 18 years old, which reduced his sentence and meant that he was not in prison. With this and countless more cases as a background, Morgan Johansson's boast of the allegedly harsh criminal policy the government is pursuing as something devoid of reality. The judgment of the Sudanese in 2016 states that, among other things, in order to reduce the risk of recidivism and to help, the name of the sentenced person is mentioned here, to explore their values and choices for the future, probation is the most appropriate sanction. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like Although the government's harsh criminal policy forced the poor immigrant who molested a child to explore his values and choices for the future, he later chose to murder and rape, a crime for which he has now been sentenced to life imprisonment. Although I am pleased that he was sentenced to life imprisonment, I cannot help but state and problematize that life does not mean life in Morgan Johansson's Sweden and that he is not expelled. Does Morgan Johansson think that immigrants and perpetrators, like those now affected, should be allowed to continue to move freely in Sweden to the same extent as now?
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-227	Madam President, I would like I might have thought that Tobias Andersson, when he takes up an individual example with a 19-year-old boy who has been killed, could put down this most elegant tone. But he can't do that. But that is what we are talking about now. Actually, it's an individual matter. It's a murder. It's basically an extremely terrible event. There are two remarkable things in Tobias Andersson's interpellation. One is that he speculates in the interpellation as to whether the punishment that the offender will receive will be proportionate to the public's view of law, as he writes. When the judgment falls, it turns out that this offender has been sentenced in the district court to the most severe punishment of the law, i.e. life imprisonment. Then Tobias Andersson comes off a little bit in that criticism. We'll see if the verdict will stand. It is very possible that it will be appealed. And I'm not going to interfere in how individual targets are handled, in the way Tobias Andersson does. But the point is that we have tightened the penalties precisely for murders from this year onward, so that life sentences are used to a greater extent. In addition, as I say in mt interpellation answer, we have tightened the penalties for and the view of sexual crimes. This applies to both the negligence of sexual offences and the punishment of gross rape. We did this last term of office. The most remarkable thing in Tobias Andersson's rhetoric and the campaign that I know is going on online is rather, which is not surprising, how the Swedish Democrats try to exploit this terrible event for party political games and to incite immigrants in general, despite the fact that Tommie Lindhs's family explicitly avoided it. Tommie Lindhs's parents said last spring, with the direct address of the right-wing forces now trying to exploit this murder for party political purposes: they are trying to take advantage of our son's death and make it a political issue. People claim that our son was a Nazi or a racist. But he wasn't. Hate wasn't his thing. And we don't want people to hate either. That's not how he's supposed to be remembered. So this is what the parents of the boy who was killed say: This is not how he should be remembered. Does Tobias Andersson understand what his parents are appealing for here? They pray to be left alone in their grief. They ask you not to use this case in the way you do for party political games. They simply pray that he may rest in peace. Now we're in the position that a 19-year-old boy is dead. It is an extremely tragic and terrible event and a terrible crime. I therefore ask Tobias Andersson and the Swedish Democrats – I actually demand of you – to respect the will of the family. Don't make a young person's death a political spectacle. It's actually unworthy and obscene. I think you should stop doing that.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-239	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I fully understand that Morgan Johansson cannot comment in detail on individual cases. But we are debating a social problem. We are debating an imported crime that is increasing and becoming more serious in character – robbery, gang rapes, gang shootings, stabbings and so on. In addition, violent and sexual crimes are often committed with underlying Swedish hostility as a motive. In this context, I cannot release the murder of Tommie Lindh, partly because it touched me deeply, partly because the violence orgy seems to have arisen as a consequence of the Sudanese finding a SD cap among Tommie's campaign material from various parties. Morgan Johansson mentions the parents. I've made contact with Tommie's family. Morgan Johansson hasn't. But I have promised to read a message from Tommie's father to Morgan Johansson and the government. I'm afraid Tommie's father couldn't be here today. But I know that he will take part in this debate afterwards. He sends his greetings to the following: Hello Morgan, my son was murdered in May when he tried to protect a young girl from a violent Sudanese who raped her that night. My son's murderer got a Swedish citizenship without having earned it, why? My son's killer is now sentenced to life imprisonment, but he'll come out before he even turns 40, why? My son's killer will not be expelled after serving time even though he has dual citizenship, why? I have so many questions but few answers, all I know is that I refuse to allow Tommie to be reduced to some of the statistics. I'm proud of my son, but I'm ashamed of the government. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I don't think I'm the only one who understands the sadness, anger and dejection that Tommie's father expresses in his message to Morgan Johansson. I think that Morgan Johansson, before he relapses into partisans, should try to understand how it would have felt if a person who should not have been in Sweden from the beginning had murdered one of his sons, if the person had committed crimes earlier but still had to stay in Sweden, if the police had been summoned far earlier during the evening but arrived only when it was too late and if the offender was sentenced to life imprisonment but that the likelihood is still great that relatives will risk meeting him in the city within 20 years. If Morgan Johansson succeeds in imagining this, I cannot possibly believe that he would be seriously satisfied with his work and that of the government in this area. Madam President, I would like In the light of this speech, I would like to give Morgan Johansson the opportunity to try and answer the questions that Tommie Lindhs's father has.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-251	Madam President, I would like Losing a child is one of the worst things that can happen to you. I think everyone who is a parent can understand that. It is precisely this deep sorrow that one should have great respect for. That is why I think it will be so wrong when the Swedish Democrats try to use a single example to run a party political campaign, and not just party political. What this is all about is basically inciting immigrants in general. That is the problem with the Swedish Democrats, that it is not the crimes in themselves that they are against, but the immigrants. You do not care if it is someone Swedish who has committed a crime against an immigrant, but it is just these other cases that you highlight. You have learned from other right-wing forces earlier in history that it is in this way that policies can be pursued to put groups against each other. Every death is a profound tragedy. And the rule of law must look at every death with enormous seriousness and do everything possible to investigate the crimes and to judge the perpetrators. This also applies, of course, in this case. I can see that in this case the offender is sentenced to the most severe penalty that we have in the book of the law. Then we'll see what an appeal brings. My answer to Tommie Lindhs's parents is precisely that we will continue to expand the judicial system, sharpen our eyes on this type of violence and prosecute this type of crime. That is a matter of course for us. But do not use these individual examples to then incite peoples. Then you hurt society in depth, I say. SD has a tendency to blame immigrants for all the problems that exist in society. Although all deaths are deeply tragic, I can nevertheless say that the picture that you sometimes try to spread is that everything is always getting worse and worse is not right. When I graduated from school some 30 years ago, there was a greater risk of being killed in Sweden than it is today. The lethal violence per capita was higher between 1989 and 1990, and that was before the large immigrant groups came to Sweden. I can also note that many of the worst violent criminals we have had to take a position on in Sweden have fully recognisable Swedish names. The worst rapist we've had in recent years, Hagaman, was Niklas Lindgren. One of our worst child killers, the one who killed Engla, was named Anders Eklund. One of the worst police murderers and the last one we had – thank God it was a long time ago – was the Nazi Tony Olsson. It doesn't matter to me whether you're black or white when you commit a crime or who you commit the crime. For me, it only matters to ensure that we combat the crimes and have effective penalties against those who commit them. If you start using criminal policy as a way of inciting peoples against each other, I think we will end up in a place in Sweden that is extremely worrying. Then you tear Sweden apart, and then you risk causing a lot of damage – precisely in the way that the Swedish Democrats unfortunately do.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-259	Madam President, I would like If the Minister of Justice and Migration had not cared about the origin of the perpetrators, he would probably not have lined up a number of Swedish perpetrators to score points of it. I can only say that the Minister is more concerned about and sees a greater problem with my rhetoric than the reality found in today's Sweden. If Twitter ‐, excuse me, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson had chosen to focus more on taking measures needed to secure this, there would not have been any frightening examples for the Swedish Democrats or anyone else to lift up. I want a Sweden where there are no individual terrible examples like this that can be raised in the political debate. That is precisely why we repeatedly problematize social development: we want to put an end to the development we see. We do not want any more individual examples like the case of Tommie Lindh. I would have been the happiest politician in the Riksdag if I could not point out a number of terrible crimes of violence and sex committed by people who have immigrated to Sweden, who should not have been allowed to come here from the beginning, who, when they committed crimes the first time, would have been severely punished and expelled in cases where it was possible and who would not have been left in Sweden and had the opportunity to commit new acts in the way they are currently receiving. Then I would have been pleased – and then perhaps the Minister for Justice and Migration would have been satisfied, because then I would not have had any individual cases to raise in the debate. It is obvious that this is what the Minister problems most, not the development we see when it comes to violent and sexual crimes, but the rhetoric of mine and the Swedish democrats. Lift your head, get in the game and take the opportunity to try to answer Tommie Lindhs's father's questions!
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-264	Madam President, I would like The answer to these questions is, of course, that society will continue to ensure that we fight this type of crime and that we will expand our opportunities to do so, both with punitive measures, with increased opportunities for police to investigate the crimes and with the expansion of the police. We have demonstrated this both in the case of sexual crimes and in the case of deadly violence. As I said, we just sharpened the penalty for murder. Last parliamentary term we made sure that we now have the most stringent legislation against sexual offences ever. We will continue to expand it. Among other things, we are looking at the possibility of raising the minimum penalty for normal rape. We will continue to do this during this term of office as well. The problem with the rhetoric of the Swedish democrats is precisely the one-sided rhetoric you have. I keep getting the impression that you do not really care about these crimes, but that it is the immigrants that you are against. They are the ones to be put in place, and so you lift up individual crimes and use them in your rhetoric. This goes back a long way. You have learned from other right-wing forces earlier in history that this is what you can do if you want to put communities against each other. I would like to point out that doing so is extremely dangerous. In practice, then, large groups of people are labeled as less worthy, as a worse kind of people who should not really be here and who are in some way inferior. It is this type of entrance that the Swedish Democrats have, which is basically based on you not believing that people have the same basic value. That's where we split up. I'm never gonna do that. For me, it's just a matter of ensuring that we continue to fight crime – whether the offender is black or white, whether the victim is black or white. That's how a legal society should work.
i-H5nR6eR1oWLhCLbf6kTM81	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, Minister Anders Ygeman and Minister Jennie Nilsson. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Social Affairs Lena Hallengren answers such general policy questions as questions within her own area of responsibility.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-269	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. Sweden's healthcare queues are among the absolute longest in Europe. This is because Sweden had one of Europe's biggest health debts, i.e. longest care queues, even before the pandemic affected us. Today, if you line up all the people who are waiting to receive care, that line reaches from Stockholm up to Sundsvall. As the Minister of Social Affairs well knows, the queues dropped considerably during the alliance government and then again grew under the red-green government. In addition, we live in a country with one of the world's highest tax burdens, where one should expect to get currency for the money paid in taxes. Now there's a lot of anxiety. Queues are growing again. My question to the Minister is: what does the government intend to do to work with and get rid of the medical queues?
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-273	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, for an incredibly important question! We are discussing it at a very special time when we have a pandemic that has undoubtedly made this situation more difficult. It should be recalled that before the pandemic struck, we were in a position where more and more regions actually achieved success in shortening their queues and increasing their accessibility. It is of course sad to be on the right track and then have to deal with a pandemic, but that is how health care needs to work. Now it is a major and important task that needs to be continued, and it is about stepping up the interaction that needs to take place between the regions. You just need to help each other. The accessibility delegation appointed by the Government will help to develop plans in each region on how to increase accessibility there. It is also about large resources to manage the care as a whole and not least in order to reduce the so-called care debt.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-276	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Social Affairs. We see that different countries have completely different conditions for dealing with this situation. In fact, in many countries there is no health debt to talk about. My question to the Government is what analysis she makes and what conclusion she draws from the fact that, for example, Denmark has managed to manage both covid-19 patients and at the same time avoid building on the health debt in regular care.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-279	Madam President, I would like There are few countries that are not affected by this pandemic even in terms of health debt, I would say firmly. But it is clear that it is an important work that is now taking place. We contribute to this work as best we can at national level, but basically we have 21 regions that have a primary responsibility to ensure that they have care that is accessible and of good quality. In this work, both Camilla Waltersson Grönvall and my party friends as well as everyone else need to work hard so that the queues are shortened.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-281	Madam President, I would like Following the terrible Islamic terrorist attack in France, where a 47-year-old teacher was brutally murdered, the French Government has taken the initiative to expel 231 Islamists who can be linked in various ways to the violent environment. Now it is the enemies of the Republic who should be afraid, obeying the message of the French Government. The struggle between violent Islamisation and free democratic society is not unique to France. Sweden stands out in Europe with thousands of individuals linked to the violent environment, according to the Swedish Security Service. Madam President, I would like I would like to know how many of these foreigners linked to the environment that the Social Democratic Government has managed to expel from Sweden during its six years in power. And I would like to ask the Swedish people for an important clarification: does the Minister of Justice consider these foreigners at all, in accordance with France, as enemies of our nation?
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-284	Madam President, I would like The rule is that you commit crimes in Sweden and are not a Swedish citizen, especially if you commit serious crimes, it is the expulsion that applies. I am also prepared to strengthen that regulatory framework. We have just put in place a revision of the deportation rules in order to ensure that deportations can be carried out with greater efficiency. Then there is a particular problem that sometimes means that even if you decide on an expulsion, the individual country that is to receive its citizens does not always want to do so. Then you have to work bilaterally with such countries to ensure that you can execute the expulsion. But up to 90 percent of all expulsions decided are also executed. We are working with those countries where this is a problem to make things easier. Afghanistan and Morocco are examples of countries to which criminal convictions could not previously be deported, but now they can do so after the work of the government. We are now working with three additional countries – Iraq, Iran and Lebanon – to facilitate this. The answer to the question is: If you commit crimes in Sweden and are not Swedish citizens, you should be expelled.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-288	Madam President, I would like I can make the question very specific. The Special Alien Control Act allows us to expel foreigners who in various ways pose security threats. How many have been expelled by that law during the government's six years in power? This is a rather specific question to which I think we should be able to ask the Minister for Justice and Migration for an answer. Then I would also like a concrete answer as to whether, like France, these Islamists in the violent environment in Sweden are regarded as enemies of the nation.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-290	Madam President, I would like We have decided on a number of expulsions. Then it can sometimes be difficult to execute them. There we are in exactly the same position as France. France, too, can decide on expulsions but then find it difficult to get them executed because the country in question may not want to accept them or because the European Convention says that it must not tell whether there is a risk that those who are expelled, for example, will be killed or tortured. We are all in this situation, but we do not differ in any way from France in this regard.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-292	Madam President, I would like The need for high availability and access in the national telecommunications network has become very concrete for all of us as a result of the covid-19 problem. Most of our Swedish society today, in the form of individual companies, society, care and education etc., needs constant access to connectivity. Sweden is also a country with a relatively high penetration and many connected businesses and people. This also means that interruptions in connectivity have enormous consequences for the individual, for companies, for healthcare and care, and more. Madam President, I would like I've made an observation. When interruptions occur due to excavations and so on, it sometimes tends to take a very long time, especially if interruptions occur in peripheral parts of the cable and fibre network.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-296	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Anders Åkesson! As Anders Åkesson mentions, Sweden is the country in the EU that has the greatest access to fast connections. This is particularly true in rural areas. We want to continue that extension. In the budget agreed by our two parties, support for rural development is sevenfold. However, even with high connectivity and high penetration there can be interruptions. We have systems in other markets with interruption compensation for customers, which rewards the robustness of the systems. We do not have this in the same way when it comes to broadband or fibre connectivity. I'm no stranger to looking at whether we're going to have that kind of interruption compensation there. I am also no stranger to taking various forms of robustness-enhancing measures when going up to better protocols and building the network in such a way as to reduce the length and severity of interruptions.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-300	Madam President, I would like Thank you, for a positive answer, Minister. We learned after the storms Gudrun, Per and all that they were called that there was a need for fairly severe sanctions for those who owned a network for something that the individual and society have a great need for. That time it was about electricity. Today, broadband has the same life-changing functionality for the individual, I would say. My conclusion is the same as that of the State Council; today, stronger sanctions are needed to ensure that even peripheral parts receive rapid feedback.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-303	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that Anders Åkesson and I agree. I would add that it should be extended to mobile communications. If the fibre goes down, mobile connections are people's lifeline today. So I think we should look at both systems as a whole.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-305	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Morgan Johansson. In the middle of the pandemic this summer, a new student took. Record numbers went to universities to avoid unemployment and to be better equipped when the economy turns. However, for young people with permits under the new Upper Secondary Education Act, permanent work is the only option to stay in Sweden. They have invested in their future in Sweden, and Sweden has invested in them. Even normally it is tough for a young person to find a permanent job in six months. The pandemic makes it even harder. The government has finally realised that the deadline and conditions for work need to be changed and has promised that such a proposal will come. The permits for the young students who took the student this summer will expire in mid-December. I therefore wonder when the government will come forward with its proposal so that these young people will not become yet another group that is being squeezed.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-310	Madam President, I would like First of all, it has not been a permanent job that has been required without a duration of at least two years and that one should have obtained such a job within six months. As I said, when the Corona crisis came, we came to the conclusion that it was a rather tough demand. It was already tough. Now, of course, it will be even more difficult to cope with. We have here a group of young people who should still have a chance to enter the labour market. That is why we are in favour of making it easier and ready to change so that you have a year, and there should be a duration of one year. It is now working on such a change. It is a change of regulation that must be made, and a change of law must be made. We'll get back to you. We're working as fast as we can. But I cannot promise that there will be new legislation before the end of the year. I dare say we can't do that. On the other hand, at some point in the beginning of next year, we will be finished with the necessary amendment of the law itself.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-313	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Almost daily I am contacted by young people who last summer took the student or by people around them. It's only a month and a half until the permits expire. What you want to know and make sure is that they won't get caught. It is always new groups that are being left out in this patchwork. The aim is to ensure that the government will ensure either through retroactivity or otherwise that young people whose permission expires before the new legislation will also be covered.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-316	Madam President, I would like A few promises that no one will get caught, I can't put on display. I can only promise that we will make sure that we change that regulatory framework as soon as we can and when we are done. However, one should be aware that it is a group of young people who have actually been given a second chance. They did not have asylum grounds. They were given the opportunity to go out of school, on condition that they would keep their skins shut, that they would not commit any crimes, that they would pass school, and that they would then establish themselves in the labour market. These conditions have all been known from the beginning.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-318	Madam President, I would like Working from home is good, as it reduces the spread of infection and risks. But if you're a bus driver or a preschool teacher, it's hard to get to it. If you also have several diseases that make you belong to a risk group, an extra vulnerable group, you need to have the opportunity to get a compensation. I am pleased that there is agreement that there should be compensation for extra vulnerable groups who need to give up work for some time. Unfortunately, when it was introduced on 1 July, it took almost two months to apply for it. When it is extended, which is a good thing, it can also take up to six weeks before you can apply again. Apart from that, my question to the government today is whether the government shares the Christian Democrats' assessment that the compensation needs to remain for risk groups until we can offer the said risk groups vaccines.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-321	Madam President, I would like Although the issue now lies mainly with the Social Security Committee, both I and Acko Ankarberg Johansson, together with others in this House, have been very involved in this issue from the outset. It has certainly been a dialogue and a good cooperation between the Ministry and the Government and the Social Affairs Committee and the Riksdag. Acko Ankarberg Johansson began by describing the shortcomings in how long it can take and so on. We also talked about shortcomings. We were aware that we had to make certain choices. You could go through the employer, who could pay it out faster but with the consequences if you are to let an employer decide whether the employee belongs to a risk group or not. We were aware that if we were not to do so, it would take longer. So we have been in agreement and aware that it has not been the perfect system, but that it is an important system to put in place. I cannot make promises today that we will have a compensation that will apply until a pandemic is over. But today we are in a different position.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-324	Madam President, I would like Of course we don't know when the pandemic will be over. It will take a lot longer than most people think. But these are risk groups, and they will be among the priority groups that will be offered vaccines. We have agreed that there is a need for compensation in order to be able to be at home. If you can avoid illness it also saves the care extra patient nights. Then it should also be linked to being able to offer vaccines. The position of the Christian Democrats this autumn has been that it needs to be linked to the fact that vaccines can be offered.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-326	Madam President, I would like At the risk of perhaps overinterpreting someone in the conversations we had, we also agreed to be at home with a relatively low remuneration indefinitely was not something anyone preferred. An employer must change the situation in the workplace. The situation must be resolved by providing the opportunity to work digitally. Other ways must be found to ensure that there is a place in the labour market that works. That we should have this compensation until we know we have a vaccine, I cannot promise today.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-328	Madam President, I would like I have a question about future care. Often care should be close. But sometimes the most important thing is to get the best care. I see it as a problem that what was meant to be a long-term process of wise concentration of highly specialised care seems to be becoming an extremely short-term and over-bureaucratic colossus. Health care would initially submit brief applications on a dozen pages, and several areas would be announced at the same time, so that care could be provided in a context and synergies could be gained from this. Instead, hundreds of pages are now required for one diagnosis at a time, often for diagnoses that may only apply to a few patients per 100,000. After all, it becomes almost impossible for health care to make wise decisions. My question is: will the Minister take a closer look at this problem and, if necessary, take steps to make the process wiser and more long-term?
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-333	Madam President, I would like I thank Lina Nordquist for the question. I assume that Lina Nordquist refers to the issue of highly specialised care and how to find ways to concentrate it in fewer places. I want to make it clear that there are not as many areas as one can regard as highly specialised and concentrated in a few places. It really is important to start in those areas where you see that the medical benefits are really great and where you need to do that concentration in order to offer the best possible care. This is a work for which the National Board of Health and Welfare is responsible. We do not have any plans today to give new assignments, but it is clear that we are following this closely. I also hear what Lina Nordquist is doing here. We are therefore following the matter closely, but we have no new assignments to the National Board of Health and Welfare.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-337	I thank the Minister for his reply, which I am pleased about. That is the answer I had hoped for: that you should follow this question closely. Of course, as a country, we cannot afford – especially the patients – a cut sex and a geographical protection instinct that devours resources. Many health managers around the country are now testifying that they are not capable of doing so. I would urge the Minister once again to follow the process closely and be prepared to issue further advice to the National Board of Health and Welfare, so that the process is really long-term and good for patients.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-340	Madam President, I would like This post highlights how complex and amazing Swedish healthcare is. We have a common process where we talk about good and close care and how to develop it, so that people can quickly and easily access the care they need in primary care. At the same time, the whole care chain should be connected. Of course, it is also a special time, with a pandemic, to sit down and make such applications. Many such processes were already under way. Of course, we will have to monitor particularly closely how this progresses, but there will be both a good close care and a good high-specialised care.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-342	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. Since 1 January 2000, more than 300 women in Sweden have been killed by their husband, boyfriend or ex-husband. Many more have been beaten, both mentally and physically. In many cases, the women who have been murdered have sought help in the past. Yet society has failed to protect them. In many cases, minor children are at home when the murder is committed or even see their mother killed. That is, of course, unacceptable. The government's sixth gender equality policy objective is to end men's violence against women. Women and men, girls and boys, should have the same right and the possibility of physical integrity. The government has also developed a ten-year cross-sectoral national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-346	Madam President, I would like Combating men's violence against women is our main priority alongside gang crime. As Serkan Köse says, we have done a great deal during the term of office that we have behind us. We have carried out a major investment in crime victims' shelters and women's shelters, which now have more money to move with than ever before. We have the most stringent sex crime legislation ever, with both stricter penalties for the gross rapes and consent laws. We also find it easier to put a anklet on the men who persecute their former partners. We will continue to strengthen this work in the coming years. We are strengthening the police with 300 new investigators who have been recruited specifically to work with relationship-related violence. We will tighten the penalties for sexual harassment and normal rape. We are reviewing that. We will also implement child peace legislation, so that the child who is witnessing violence in such a situation will be regarded as a victim of his own. This strengthens children's rights.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-348	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister of Justice for his answer. As more and more people isolate themselves at home because of covid-19 increases the risk of violence in close relationships. The longer families are isolated at home, the greater the risk of women and children being exposed to violence in close relationships, honor-related violence and sexual violence. Isolation makes it easier for violent partners or family members to exercise control and significantly more difficult for vulnerable women to seek help.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-351	Madam President, I would like In the spring, we saw the risk of that being the case. This was the case in a number of other countries, where there was a much more extensive shutdown than we have had in Sweden, in practice with a curfew. As a result, the conflicts, violence and risks increased. This is why we strengthened this spring with SEK 100 million non-profit organisations working with children in vulnerable situations and violent women. We will continue to be clear to the law enforcement authorities that they should be very vigilant about this type of violence in this situation.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-352	Madam President, I would like I would like to refer to what Minister Johansson has just said about many other countries having chosen to shut down very hard. I am proud that we have been able to deal with the pandemic, which has really listened to experts, listened to authorities and followed advice. Then there are some in our society who have had to bear a little more responsibility to prevent the spread of the disease. They include 70-plusers and those at risk. That is why I am very pleased that the government has today communicated the release of the specific recommendations for 70-plusers. I think there were many who cheered when we could allow visitors to enter the retirement homes. Everyone needs to meet people, and everyone needs to be out and socialize as much as possible.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-356	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Pernilla for the question. The pandemic deserves a lot of questions. Let's remind ourselves that it's on-going. Of course, the 70-plus group and others in the risk group remain particularly vulnerable. That is why we need to take a joint responsibility to ensure that the spread of the disease is kept down. What tools do we have to prevent the spread of infection in the future? There is, of course, the opportunity to take the measures that we have previously had, with a restraining order in the care of the elderly, and above all I would say that we should continue the work that we now see the effects of with regard to, for example, Uppsala. We will work with local regulations and recommendations. Then, just as in the Uppsala situation, it can be about avoiding going to shops, avoiding travelling collectively and avoiding social contacts with people other than those in their own household. It is important to have such strong recommendations to the whole population, but perhaps in limited areas where the spread of infection is greatest.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-359	Madam President, I would like We're in the ninth month of the pandemic. There are many of us who have been responsible for crisis management of our country. We've been working day and night on it. Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren has been in the front line. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you from the speaker's chair for the incredibly professional work you have done and for how firmly you have stood on the front in the crisis management of our country. I would like to ask you to say a few words to the Swedish people about how we view the future.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-360	Madam President, I would like This question may sound ordered, but I can assure you that it is in no way. I would like to use my 30 seconds to say that this is a situation that is serious and continue to answer the question that has just been asked about what more action we have to take. It is, for example, a question of the law of order. It is still possible to reduce the number of people who can meet at public gatherings. Continued supervision activities at restaurants, restaurants and pubs are also very important. It is a question of taking the necessary measures, and if it turns out that the spread of infection occurs, the law on the protection of infection offers great opportunities for both quarantine and isolation.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-363	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson. The Government of Isabella Lövin mentioned at the press conference on 7 October that the Government is working on a proposal to allow quota refugees to stay with the same practical possibilities in the event of family immigration as other categories of persons in need of protection. What this means in practice is unclear as she did not describe it in more detail. Secretary of State Maria Ferm, from the same party as Minister Isabella Lövin, tweeted that there should be more generous rules for quota refugees which, according to migration reports today, would be subject to the same regulatory framework as other people in need of protection. Madam President, I would like It is very unclear what the government thinks about migration. My question to Minister for Migration Morgan Johansson is: What is the meaning of the proposal? Can the Swedish parliament get clarity about what the government thinks?
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-366	Madam President, I would like I'm gonna figure this out. This applies, as I said, to the quota refugees who are the most vulnerable among the refugee groups we have. These are the people we bring here from refugee camps. It can be single women and people with disabilities. It is about those who have the most difficulty in refugee camps around the world. In our quota, there are 5 000 people every year. They have had the possibility of family reunification in the past, and still do. However, the period from the beginning of the three-month gap for whether or not to be subject to supply requirements has been counted from the decision. Now we say that it should count from the time you come to Sweden. They are thus given the same conditions as ordinary asylum seekers are given in terms of their livelihood requirements and family migration. This is not a huge thing, but in this case it is important for the individual.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-370	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs. In last week's section of the Mission review was made a report on the malpractice of LSS homes. The report was repulsive and really unpleasant to look at. It was about the exercise of power. It was violence and threats of violence. There was no self-determination and absolute and obviously no transparency. All this happened to a person who does not have the ability to speak and who was in total dependence on the personnel who carried out these offensive acts. This is totally unacceptable, and I am fully aware that the Minister thinks so too. I am also aware of the division of responsibilities and the mapping of competence that the National Board of Health and Welfare does among the staff. But my question is about what the government intends to do. Should there be clearer suitability requirements or an extract from a load register? Will you make demands on IVO for more unannounced checks?
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-373	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Carina Ståhl Herrstedt, for the question. It can only be said that it was a terrible programme. It was really terrible. In this case, the conclusions on my part are probably not so different from those on Carina. It is very much about the competence of the staff. A person who understands his assignment would never come up with the idea of handling, responding or caring to a person in the way that we could share. It's really hair-traveling. Carina Ståhl Herrstedt asks what the government intends to do. The government, of course, works through its authorities. It was an important task that the government gave to the National Board of Health and Welfare as late as December 2019 to review the skills of the personnel at LSS homes. One should come back to the government with proposals on what kind of changes may be appropriate and to what extent the skills gap is linked to various coercive and restrictive measures. Moreover, it is incredibly important that supervision continues and that all irregularities are actually reported. Then we can grab them.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-378	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Hallengren. In 2018, SVT News noted the suspected irregularities in adoptions from Chile during the 1970s and 1980s. From Pinochets's military dictatorship, 2,000 children were adopted to guardians in Sweden. Chile has carried out a parliamentary inquiry into these adoptions, and it is not a merry reading. Among other things, it says: It is a fact that hundreds of children in Chile have been snatched from their parents and removed, especially from abroad. It is a truth which cannot be contradicted and which is supported by the testimony of all those who have been called to participate in the case. The disappearance of children was a reality for women throughout the country who were suffering from poverty or who lacked a supporting network. Chile has also launched a criminal investigation involving 600 Swedish children. Children have disappeared in Chile and ended up in Sweden. Those involved deserve answers and redress from the Swedish side as well. Why does the Minister not want to investigate and clarify Sweden's role in the high-profile adoptions from Chile?
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-380	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jon Thorbjörnson, for the question! It is a terrible story that is being rolled up, where Sweden, like many other countries, occurs. Of course, it is very welcome that Chile is taking this very seriously because it is they who are sitting on most of the documentation and information. Of course, we too are committed to this. We do so by assisting the individual, but also by assisting Chile with all the material that might be needed there. We have also allocated resources to the Swedish Agency for Parental Support, MFOF. They should both be able to provide support to the adopted and be able to work to provide support not only in terms of their adoption process but also to deal with the traumas they have experienced, of course. We do not rule out that we will also move forward, but we have followed the investigation in Chile and probably need to follow it a little further.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-384	Madam President, I would like When I'm out talking to farmers around Sweden – it doesn't matter where I go – the message is always as clear and clear: the profitability of agriculture is too poor. Today we can listen to a radio message that Sifo has interviewed 500 farmers in a so-called farm barometer. The conclusion is clear. Swedish farmers are concerned about the decline in profitability. We also know that four to five dairy businesses end each week. Why? Well, profitability is too bad. It is therefore a very serious situation for farmers in our country. This rhymes badly as increased profitability is one of the cornerstones of the food strategy adopted by Parliament over three years ago.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-387	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your commitment, Magnus Oscarsson! It was clearly heard that you are passionate about these issues. So do I. I am very pleased that for the first time we have a common strategy on how to develop the whole food chain. I, too, meet the questions of the competitiveness of agriculture. This is perhaps the most important tool to deal with if we are, for example, to be able to increase the degree of self-sufficiency in Sweden. You have to work long-term with the questions in the way we do. We came up with a new action plan as late as the beginning of this year. In it we have four priority areas. It is about research and innovation, regulatory simplification, skills supply and exports. Much of the keys lie in this as well as the conditions that the new CAP will provide in the implementation that we then do in Sweden. There was just a final negotiation on the first important step for tomorrow's conditions for agriculture in Europe and Sweden.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-391	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs. We know that it is important that the right skills are available in the care of the elderly and that regular skills development is provided. This year, with a pandemic, this has been even clearer. As a municipal councillor, I find it particularly enjoyable that the government has invested 2 billion in training the staff of elderly care on paid working hours. This can then provide a permanent full-time job. Happily, next year more money will be invested in elderly care. Many local authorities are now wondering how this money can and should be used to improve the quality of care for the elderly for both those who live there and those who work there.
i-MTGkrT75C19zyuLBKreYDF	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ann-Christin-Christin Ahlberg, for the question! If we invest in the staff and give it better conditions to really have the right skills to carry out the difficult task of being a nurse in the care of the elderly, the quality will also be much better. It will be noticed by colleagues, and this is evident by those who live in a retirement home. It will also be noticed by relatives. It's a very important job. I am also pleased that it is not just 2.2 billion. That's a lot of money. This is equivalent to about 10 000 people who have the opportunity to study half-time and work half-time in order to become a nurse. It is now being increased by an additional 1.7 billion. This means that there will be many more than the 10,000. Now the first line managers will also be able to participate in the initiative, which we consider to be very important. I also see that in various ways it is now being made possible for those who have a lack of knowledge to be able to take part in the initiative. This is done together by trade unions and employers at local level.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-397	Madam President, I would like Juvenile delinquency is getting worse. In 2016 – 2019 more than 9,000 cases were reported where a person under 15 years of age was suspected of violent crime. According to the police, ten to twelve-year-olds are recruited into criminal gangs. In Gothenburg, forced recruitment increases. Punishments and social control are common. For example, you can be banned from your own street. At the moment, legislative proposals are being discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs regarding time limits for detention. The government has proposed a maximum of six months for adults and a maximum of three months for young people under the age of 18. However, the Committee on Justice has proposed that it be nine months for adults. That's a difference of six months. Several consultation bodies have pointed out that this will increase the risk that young people will be recruited to commit serious crimes. Does the Minister of Justice see the increased risk? If the answer is yes, what action does he intend to take to counteract this?
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-400	Madam President, I would like First of all, it is not easy for juvenile delinquency to increase. On the contrary, looking back over the past 10, 15 years, the number of young people suspected of crime has fallen. We also see this in terms of violent crime. This is partly due to the fact that alcohol-related violence seems to decrease in Sweden as drinking among young people decreases. You can't just casually say the way Ellen Juntti does. However, it is clear that we have a problem with gang crime. It's a group of gang criminals who sometimes think they own a neighborhood or a block and cause a lot of crime. There must be effective action against them. The means of detention and the penalties we have are such. At the same time, we must remain within the framework of the European Convention and other international instruments. I am convinced that we are keeping that balance well in the legislative proposal that we have tabled.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-403	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Energy Anders Ygeman. Recently, a local referendum on the construction of a wind farm in Ripfjället resulted in a resounding no. Around the country, local residents protest against the environmental interventions that large-scale wind power projects can entail. But when the population votes wrong, the government chooses to stop listening. Instead, we want to abolish the right of municipalities to veto wind power exploitation through a rapid investigation. In the election between municipal democratic self-determination and ineffective climate and energy policies, the government always chooses to appease the Green Party. Why, Madam President, does the government think it is better suited than the local politicians and, by extension, the inhabitants of the municipality to decide where new wind turbines should be built?
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-407	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mattias Bäckström Johansson for the question! I suppose the corresponding analogy for the Swedish Democrats would be that when the climate-deniers decide it is the Swedish Democrats who perform. We have seen how climate-deniers after climate-deniers have been allowed to rule the Swedish Democrats. This applies not least to the Swedish Democrats' wind power policy. I will answer Mattias Bäckström Johansson's question. We have a good order in Sweden with municipal plan monopoly. The government has no plans to change. However, we now have a municipal veto in addition to that. We want to look at whether it is appropriate. Then the voting figures were 48 percent against 51 in Malung. I guess it wasn't that resounding.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-411	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Hallengren. We have a type of Wild West syndrome in Swedish healthcare when it comes to private actors. We have a free right of establishment for health care companies, a market for private health insurance and online doctors that penetrates through a completely unregulated health care market. A well-known online doctor has opened two health centres in central Stockholm and has arranged for a fantastic app that controls patients from the health centres right into their clinics. There is a great risk – and then we are talking not only about Stockholm, but about the whole of Sweden – that mildly ill patients displace the most sick. It's spreading like wildfire. The right flank in the Riksdag talks about health care choices. Instead, we in the Left Party are talking about equality and fragmented care. Madam President, I would like My question is: how will the Minister act to slow down the development that harms Swedish health care?
i-LwmggAerxouPsveLxYSLej	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for your question! This is about really thinking about where Swedish health care is going. It looks very different around the country. Although Karin Rågsjö herself says that it is not just a question in Stockholm, I would say that it is here that we see a lot of the experimental workshop. If Madam President excuses talking about Region Stockholm in this House, it is here that we see how the online doctors are offered opportunities to establish themselves with fairly generous compensation systems. It worries me a lot. I hope that the municipalities and regions of Sweden, which will take advantage not only of the interests of the regions but also of the inhabitants of the regions, will find ways forward to ensure that care is provided according to needs and that care is equivalent across the country. You should have replacement levels where you should not look for loopholes. It should be clear that resources go where they are most needed. We will ensure in different ways that the actors that exist are really serious and respond to the challenge of providing care to everyone as needed.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-420	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs. According to Försäkringskassan's stricter assessment of the basic need for personal hygiene, assistance is no longer included for example in using deodorant, shaving the legs, using conditioners or drying the hair. During an interpellation debate that I and the Minister had in June, I was pleased when the Minister agreed with me and the Christian Democrats that it is contrary to the intention in the LSS that people with disabilities have the right to live a life like others. Following the debate, the government's cooperation parties have also stated that something needs to be addressed. But nothing has happened in the nearly five months that have passed, and people continue to get hurt every day. My question is: What is it that prevents the government from taking the initiative to change the law to ensure that people with disabilities have the same opportunities as me and the Minister to avoid smelling sweat, and perhaps because anyone who wants to shave their legs to avoid hair sticking out of the nylon stockings may do so?
i-2QMbwB7NUCr3qib7CpYRM6	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pia Steensland, for the question! I believe that Pia Steensland knows that changing the LSS and not least its application is not something that is made easy. It's the exercise of authority, and that's super boring to say. I have said in many interpellation debates with Pia Steensland that when we get to assistance, sometimes you wonder whether you should be a lawyer or a politician. This is very complicated. I would also like to say that this really is not an issue where only the Christian Democrats are upset. I think we agree on this. But it's complicated and difficult. It is necessary to review the legislation. Now we have the big LSS investigation coming back. I am not saying that it answers this question, but it shows how complex it is. We have given examples from the government and the cooperation parties, the Center Party and the Liberals of a number of investigations that we have set up or will set up. We are looking further at the issue, but we do not have work in progress to remedy this interpretation of the authority at the moment.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-429	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Rural Affairs Jennie Nilsson. The EU's common fisheries policy is about long-term sustainable fisheries. On Monday, the Council of Ministers decided on the Baltic Sea fishing quotas for 2021. Fishing quotas are established on the basis of sustainable levels and scientific advice from the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, ICES. Ices consists of more than 4,000 researchers in more than 20 countries and coordinates monitoring and research and gives advice to the European Commission and the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management. No systems are complete, and politics can operate slowly. In practice, however, we have a halt to fishing for eel and the closure of cod. Last year there was a partial ban on herring fishing, and last Monday there were clearly reduced herring quotas. What does the Minister for Rural Development think is a good response to those who do not see that politics has an effect – to those who do not think that science has a place and who believe that our processes and bodies do not deliver?
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-432	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Markus Selin, for the question! These are very important questions, and I think it is absolutely fundamental that you have a principle and that you stick to a principle that keeps all the way. For the government and for myself, it is about basing the decisions you make on scientific advice. We had negotiations on fishing quotas on Monday and Tuesday in Luxembourg. I note that the outcome and outcome of the negotiations were good on the basis of these principles. They're good in two ways. They are good because we got quotas that were on or very close to what was the Commission's proposal and within the framework of what is cautious and sustainable. We need to secure stocks over time. They are also good for taking scientific advice into account also in relation to, for example, the lay-off period. So we should have play-closes in the areas and at the depths where cod actually play and not have rules that mean that there will be disproportionate effects, for example on our coastal fishing. We delivered on both of these parts, and I am pleased with that at this point.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-437	Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemia has exacerbated an already serious accessibility crisis in Swedish healthcare. More than 185 000 Swedes are now waiting for treatment and for a message from the government about what they are doing to fix the problem. Had it not been for the rapid increase in digital healthcare visits and the introduction of digital tools, today's debt to care would have been much greater. Digital tools have also been important for maintaining social contacts and reducing solitude, not least for people aged 70 or over who have, up to now, lived under particularly tough recommendations. But many people, not least the elderly, live in digital exclusion. 36% of the elderly in special housing are not even able to connect.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-441	Madam President, I would like I almost thought that at the end the question would go to Anders Ygeman anyway, when it was about the digital exclusion. That could have been the case. Nevertheless, I note the link to care and care for the elderly in a slightly different way. First of all, I would like to say that the digital part of healthcare has hopefully been given a real boost. However, we should not be satisfied with it, but we really need to take advantage of the power that exists. Not infrequently, just as Johan Hultberg says, the group older people may be the ones who would need to have the opportunity to develop the digital dialogue with healthcare. It can be difficult, it is not certain that someone can accompany you to the care and so on. This is an issue both for digital participation in society as a whole, as well as for health care and long-term care, and I think they have taken great steps. We stimulate them, among other things, through resources, through a welfare technology investigation and much more to ensure that the necessary support is provided to develop the digital technology's place in healthcare and care.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-445	Madam President, I would like Healthcare should be provided on equal terms in Sweden. Everyone, regardless of age, has the same right to an individual medical assessment. If a particular treatment is considered medically appropriate, the person should receive it. During the pandemic, however, staff and relatives of older people have sounded the alarm that general, not individual, decisions on palliative care have been taken.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-448	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs From Utterstedt, for asking the question once again in principle in the same way. I have no other answer to give to Mrs From Utterstedt today. The Health Act applies to everyone. It also applies during a pandemic. You can't write off the Health Act. Legitimate staff have an obligation to comply with the Health Act. I think, however, that Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt draws early conclusions. We have seen that you have not always received the individual care to which you are entitled. That has been highlighted by the IVO, and it is something that they are evaluating further in order for us to really see how extensive this is. Has it been general? Is it in individual places, municipalities and accommodation? Are the guidelines put in place? I look forward very much to the results of this work, and it will come at the end of November. It is also something that the Corona Commission is certainly waiting for in order to draw conclusions. But I think we should have evidence in place before we jump to conclusions. However, the Health Act obviously applies to everyone even during a pandemic.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-452	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Mr Nilsson a question. It is not unknown that it has major consequences for our coastal fishermen, but also for the processing industry and for tourism when herring fishing is also restricted during the summer. At home in Blekinge it has been a tough situation for those who have fishing as their income but also for the entire coastal community. As I understand it, and as the Government has also said here, the negotiation in the EU has meant that the stop will not affect coastal fishing in areas where cod does not play. Can the Minister for Rural Development briefly develop what the proposal means, for example at home in Blekinge? And can we count on this to be long-term?
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-456	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question, Heléne Björklund! I'm gonna start where you left off. I believe that one of our greatest challenges is to try to ensure that we have a policy based on scientific principles and foundations, and that we are created with as much long-term vision as possible. However, fishing quotas are negotiated each year. It is not something that Sweden, for example, can control or regulate. The negotiations we had this week have now been concluded. They therefore apply to next year's quotas. As I explained earlier, this means that we will be fishing at sustainable levels. But it also means that we have a design of the play-stop that is also based on scientific advice. Derogations are made for areas, for mesh size and for vessels that do not affect the play of cod. That's what it's all about. My assessment is that, with the design that we have now been given, both coastal herring fishing and small-scale fishing, for example, flatfish and other fisheries, will be able to operate more reasonably next year. The whole foundation is that we should be able to create long-term sustainability for our industries.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-460	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. Health promotion and prevention have never been more important than now. The Moderates are driving and have proposed that Sweden should develop a national health-promoting strategy corresponding to the national cancer strategies. It is deeply unfortunate that the government seems uninterested in the whole. Generation Pep's 2020 report involved over 9,000 children aged 4-17. The aim was to gain knowledge about children's and young people's eating habits and physical activity in Sweden. The survey showed that only 14 percent moved and ate to the extent that the body is well. In May, the government appointed a national coordinator to stop the development of obesity and obesity. The mission was to promote physical activity. Dietary habits were not mentioned at all. This led to a written question to the Minister for Social Affairs about why diet was not included. I got the answer that diet and exercise, of course, belong together. On Monday, we were able to take note of the news that the coordinator was fired. This is serious. Now there is an opportunity for the government to redo and do the right thing. Will this time the government really take overall responsibility for reversing the development of obesity and overweight, including both diet and physical activity?
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-464	Madam President, I would like I do not know what is at the basis of Ulrika Jörgensen's claim that the government considers it unimportant or uninteresting to public health, with preventive work, to reduce childhood obesity or increase physical activity or to focus on diet and other things. I don't recognize that picture. It is clear that it is a comprehensive work carried out in terms of both preventive work and the ANDT strategy, which is another type of preventive work. This applies not least to physical activity, which can take many different forms – everything from sport in school to the physical coordinator to the student health mission and so on. We will appoint a new coordinator. On the other hand, we will not repeat the whole mission. I think it's a well-balanced mission, as if you want to put it a little more popular is about putting Sweden in motion. It is clear that physical activity and diet are interrelated, but the mission is focused on physical activity so that we can achieve success there.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-467	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anders Ygeman. The other day, PTS announced that Sweden will now auction 5G networks. This is a welcome message for those of us who believe in technology and that it will make it easier for us in the future. The decision is about a year late. However, I think it is good that we have a team in place and that everyone can play the game now that 5G is to be rolled out. The safety of Sweden's kingdom is important not only for our companies but also for our citizens. PTS has excluded some suppliers of 5G equipment from the auction. Does the Government see that due to this decision by PTS there is a risk that the roll-out will also be delayed?
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-471	Madam President, I would like Four operators have moved on in the qualification phase to the auction. They make the assessment, which I have taken note of, that this will not affect the speed of the roll-out. Today, I cannot make any other assessment than that of the operators themselves, because they are the ones who should be responsible for the roll-out. I see that Sweden will take the lead in the 5G roll-out in Europe. We will do so with the sharpest and strongest safety legislation, on which this House has unanimously decided.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-474	Madam President, I would like Now I'm going to read a threat from an animal-right-terrorist against a farmer: Shut down! Or we'll put your daughter on her knees and pierce her disgusting body with bullets. Swedish farmers live under threat and are forced to worry not only about their own safety but also about their animals and their families. Farming is difficult as it is today. The fact that people are also exposed to threats and harassment is sad. During Corona, Sweden's self-sufficiency in food has gained a new focus. Production needs to increase. A strategy has been adopted and it sets clear targets for increased food production. Farmers need support if the country is to increase its level of self-sufficiency. Madam President, I would like My question to Minister Johansson is this: what short- and long-term measures does the Minister intend to take to strengthen the security of our farmers and their families?
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-478	Madam President, I would like Most animal rights activists conduct peaceful opinion-forming in the way that all of us do within the political framework. That is the case, and it is important to be able to do so. But there are a few – a few; they are not many, but there are a few – who have taken this to a point where they also go after and threaten farmers and other traders for what they do. That is, of course, totally unacceptable. We can never accept that. We have had a dialogue with the LRF for some time on what to do. Measures that we have implemented include special assignments to the police. We have also increased the possibilities for camera surveillance. We will now move forward with further strengthened legislation on illegal infringements in order to increase the possibilities of criminal law to reach those who threaten farmers and other traders in this way, for that is something we can never accept.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-482	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. During the pandemic, we have often heard tributes to the important work of health professionals. Of course, it is quite right that we should lift and celebrate them. I would also like to highlight the work in the field of care for the elderly. There too, very good work has been done, many times under very difficult conditions, to cope with the pandemic. However, we see that questions have been raised about, for example, the involvement of elderly health care professionals. It looks very different across the country. Therefore, I would like to ask how the Minister views medical participation in care for the elderly.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-486	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kristina Nilsson, for a question that feels very important and urgent! I meet it in many places. It is clear that, as has been done earlier during this Question Time, the question arises whether you really get the care you need if you live in a particular dwelling. The obvious answer should be that here lives a group as if someone needs access to medical skills. You should have access to both good and safe care, by doctors but also by other healthcare professionals. There are probably many different skills that need to come in. The regions have a strong duty to provide medical care for the elderly. It's not something you can talk away from. However, the government does not exclude further measures to develop medical participation in municipal health care, and this of course includes care for the elderly. It is also important that municipalities have access to good medical expertise on overall patient safety issues, where, not least in these contexts, one may need that support for decisions taken.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-491	Madam President, I would like I think we all agree here that laws should be appropriate. They're supposed to hit what they're meant to hit, and they're supposed to be held to that very thing. Sweden today has very tough arms laws. It is fundamentally good and an important part of ensuring that those who handle weapons have the knowledge to do so safely. What is not good is when proposals designed to hit gang crime completely miss the target and instead punish law-abiding gun owners. Today, for example, a hunter with an unauthorized warehouse is sentenced under the same law as a serious criminal with an arsenal of automatic weapons.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-495	Madam President, I would like I don't sign it at all. A serious criminal with a huge arsenal of weapons is convicted of a serious weapon offence, perhaps even a particularly serious weapon offence, with a much higher scale of punishment than for those who are only convicted of an ordinary weapon offence. That's a possibility for the courts. I believe that the minimum penalty for the extremely serious weapons offence is six years' imprisonment, so that is not really the case at all. On our part, of course, we have no ambition whatsoever to make it more difficult for hunters or ordinary gun owners who have guns for gun shooting or such. That is not the type of proposal we are putting forward either. The proposals we put forward are aimed at accessing the type of arms handling that we have seen among gang criminals. This applies, for example, to the tightening up of the serious arms crime, which leads to a presumption of detention, which means that we can now arrest those who run around the streets with weapons to which they are not entitled. They're gang criminals. It's not hunters.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-498	Madam President, I would like Equal before the law, the same obligations and rights – unfortunately, there are some who consider themselves above the law and create their own rights. Today we can see that keepers, politicians and relatives of keepers of animals are threatened and harassed by autonomous animal rights activists. You travel land and kingdom around, leaving mess and chaos in your footsteps. This threatens the democratic principles we have in society, and it threatens the free economy in Sweden. The Minister of Justice has earlier here today promised to return to Parliament with legislation to get to the autonomous animal rights activists. I have two questions for the Minister of Justice: when is the proposal coming? And can we imagine a specific code for animal activism?
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-501	Madam President, I would like As I said in my previous speech on this issue, we have already taken action. We have given the possibility of increased camera surveillance to monitor their property. We have ensured that a special reporting requirement has been introduced for the police to mark against these groups. They're not big-- that's still the picture you get. Many times it may be that if you manage to take one of those who are doing this, this crime almost disappears. Nevertheless, a few people are causing trouble in this way, and then you simply have to make sure that they are arrested and able to do so. We are expanding the police, of course, and it is also increasing the possibility of clearing up these crimes. Then I mentioned the legislative work that we are now doing. This applies to the legislation on unlawful infringements, which dates back to the 1960s and is not adapted to be able to protect these farms in such a way as one might wish. We are in the process of legislative work, and my assessment is that we will be able to go to Parliament in the spring for an entry into force next year of criminal law legislation.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-504	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. Borlänge, Vilhelmina, Uppsala, Bäckhammar, Övertorneå and others – I can continue to rabble, and this applies to cities like rural areas. In all cases, it is about towns, cities and places where crime has increased. It is about more crimes, fewer police officers and ordinary people who get hurt: the shopkeeper who was robbed on 43 occasions and the youth who lost his jacket, to name a few. It is important to act against gang crime, not tomorrow, but now. I would like to ask the Minister for Justice: what measures does the government intend to take, and when?
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-506	Madam President, I would like Of course, I share the view that gang crime is one of our major social problems. At the same time, crime in other respects has sometimes actually decreased. Among other things, house break-ins, break-ins in summer cottages and such things have decreased in recent years. But the gang crime committed by these groups – it can be robbery, serious blackmail or serious violent crimes – we need to move much harder on than we have done in the past. Last parliamentary term, we tightened the penalties in a wide range of respects. It was about almost all the serious crimes of violence and the serious crimes of arms, as I have mentioned before. This means that we can now take far more than before. People who used to run around with guns in the city can now be arrested in anticipation of trial and are now sitting there as well. Contrary to what Margareta Cederfelt claims, we now have more police officers than we have ever had. That's because the big hills from police training are finally starting to go out. We have started two new courses, in Borås and Malmö. We come with the 34-point programme we have at the bottom of it to continue to expand our opportunities to get to grips with this.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-510	Madam President, I would like Taiwan is a country that has been extremely successful in fighting covid-19. Despite the geographical proximity to China and a population of 23 million, only 513 people have been infected, and 7 have died. In just over two weeks' time, the decision-making body of the World Health Organisation will meet, but Taiwan will not be invited. The dictatorship of China stops. Several ministers from Canada, the United States, Australia, Japan and New Zealand have publicly supported Taiwan's participation. So I wonder if Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren will do the same.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-512	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Boriana Åberg, for a question that I do not intend to answer in the way that Boriana Åberg might think, with a definite answer. Instead, I think that this question can be put to the Foreign Minister for a longer and more in-depth discussion.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-513	Madam President, I would like Kjell Jansson has asked me when and how I will set up a parliamentary committee to review and strengthen the constitutional property protection. In this context, he has also asked which parties and representatives will be included in it. Kjell Jansson has also asked what measures I will take to strengthen property rights in the coming years and in what areas I see property rights currently lacking and therefore need to be strengthened. Kjell Jansson asked the same questions in an interpellation in spring 2020. As I replied at the time, the government is working fully to implement the substantive political agreement that was reached last January between the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals, the so-called January Agreement. This is a work that will continue to be done. In the light of the January agreement, the Government has appointed the Swedish Forest Investigation Authority, which is tasked with proposing measures to strengthen ownership of forests, new flexible forms of protection and compensation for the protection of forest land and how international biodiversity commitments can be reconciled with a growing circular bioeconomy. The investigation shall report on its mission by 30 November 2020. In the light of the January agreement, the Government has also appointed the Species Protection Investigation. The task of the investigation includes, among other things, making proposals that ensure a regulatory framework that can effectively and legally protect species and that is clear to landowners when they are entitled to compensation. The investigation shall report on its mission no later than 14 May 2021. It is the Environment and Climate Minister who is responsible for these investigations. As I pointed out in my previous reply, issues relating to the protection of property rights may arise in different contexts and in many different areas of law. Difficult trade-offs between individuals and general interests often need to be made, not least in areas where health protection, environmental protection and security can justify restrictions on the protection of property rights. As can be seen, the ongoing investigations have the task of considering and proposing a variety of legislative changes that are of great importance to landowners' rights. In addition, one of the declared aims of the Forest Investigation is to safeguard and strengthen private ownership of forests by strengthening legal certainty for landowners and companies and ensuring that landowners receive financial compensation for restrictions on ownership and use rights to the extent that they are entitled to. It is above all issues related to ownership of forests that are the background to Parliament's announcement to review and strengthen constitutional property protection. With regard to the Species Protection Investigation, the Directive states that the review should ensure a regulatory framework that can effectively and legally protect endangered species and, at the same time, is clear to landowners when they are entitled to compensation. In order to safeguard ownership, legal certainty for landowners and companies should be strengthened. Against this background, I will be waiting for the results of, among other things, the Forest Investigation and the Species Protection Investigation to see what changes may need to be made. In this context, I would also like to point out that the current design of property protection in the Constitution is the result of extensive work carried out in broad political consensus in the Fundamental Law investigation, and this came into force as late as 2011. Finally, a parliamentary committee is always made up of representatives from all the parliamentary parties, and they are appointed on the basis of proposals from the respective party groups' offices. The distribution of members is proportionate.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-521	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Morgan Johansson! The question is, why am I interpelling about this again? Well, many landowners and forest owners I meet feel frustrated. They feel threatened by the state, by the Board of Forestry and the County Administrative Board's treatment of them in various matters. They feel that ownership is gradually being undermined. The Government responds that an investigation into ownership is ongoing in accordance with paragraph 26 of the January Agreement. That may well be the case. At the same time, the Government replies that a forest investigation should be completed on 30 November. And a species investigation has been set up. What a species investigation has to do with property rights, I actually find it hard to understand. The better you care for your land, the more valuable species there should be on it. Perhaps there is more there than on the land that the state has managed over the years. The investigation shall report on its mission no later than 14 May 2021, the Government responds. Finally, the Government says that the legislation in force on property protection was made in a broad consensus in 2011. It may well be, but it does not work satisfactorily after all. And it is almost ten years since this was done. On the subject, Madam President, the Parliament decided in June 2019 to set up a parliamentary committee to strengthen constitutional property rights. Then my question to the Government is: Why is it not added? Is it the government's decision that applies and the agreement with the support parties, or is it the House that decides? That question is important in principle. I want answers to that. In my world, in a democracy, it is Parliament's decision that is horizontal and that should apply. Furthermore, it is in this way that an investigation is essentially only about the forest. There are many other matters concerning property rights. It is about land use, home peace zone and building docks, among other things. It is not uncommon for the local building boards to authorise those living on an island to build a bridge. Then the county administrative board's officials tear up the decisions on the grounds that there is a Waxholm boat there once a day. I do not believe that this is a legally secure way of dealing with property rights. I believe that any person who owns land on an island and who should have access to his island should have the right to build a bridge if the conditions are such, and they are essentially so. My question is: should the state authorities continue to have the right, when this investigation is completed, to run over local authorities' decisions on land use? It is a matter of local self-government, as is the case with the new investigation into wind power. The decisions of the municipalities are subordinated. It removes municipal self-government and allows the state to take over the decisions. My question to the Government is: when will the parliamentary committee be set up? The government is guilty of the answer.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-529	Madam President, I would like Ownership is under constant attack in Sweden despite its constitutional protection. That makes me very concerned. Today, a quarter of Sweden's surface is under beach protection. Many ask how the JÖK parties can contribute to this expansion and strengthening even more. At least we Moderates want to abolish beach protection and give municipalities the opportunity to review the need. We have listened to the voters. The West Coast, from which I come, was severely affected when the County Administrative Board made its interpretation of the regulation letter. The request was that the beach shelter would only be extended to 300 metres if specifically justified. The County Administrative Board interpreted this and pulled the large wet beach shelter blanket up to 300 metres along the entire coast.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-533	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell Jansson, for a very important question! The right of ownership in Sweden is, as was said here, constitutionally protected. It should be in every Member of Parliament's DNA and in every government's DNA that property rights are protected in Sweden. I was very surprised when I visited one of the forest organisations – I think it was Central Forest. They invited Members of Parliament from Gävleborg. We looked at how the forest administration worked in Sweden. One of the participants said: Yes, we have voluntary provision. Then one wondered: What kind of voluntary provision? Well, I get to make a voluntary disposal of 5% of my land when I'm going to harvest. It is a voluntary provision. Yeah, but what happens if you don't do it voluntarily? Then you'll have trouble felling. It would be perfect for employees to have the option of making a voluntary monthly allowance every month. But I was going to ask you something else. I received an answer to a written question from the Minister yesterday. It's about compensation for expropriation. This applies to Kiruna and Gällivare and Malmberget. We know that the mining industry is important to Sweden. We know that the mining industry is important to Norrbotten. In spring 2019, I therefore asked for an interpellation on how to regulate the expropriation compensation when there are many properties to be redeemed in a short time. Then the legislation on compensation that exists today will not work. Up in Kiruna and Gällivare, this has now been solved by the mining company saying on a voluntary basis that the issue is solved. But it's on a voluntary basis. You can withdraw the allowance at any time. Last year at this time we had an interpellation debate. Then the Government said that he shared the picture of the problem and agreed that a change of law was needed. There is an investigation called Compensation in case of expropriation of homes, Ds 2016:16. The new legislation would be in place this autumn. That was the answer given to the inhabitants of Norrbotten last autumn. In the written reply that I received yesterday, the Minister says that it has not been possible, because of the burden of the Government Office. The Minister writes in his reply that certain legislative projects have had to wait and that the government will return to Parliament when the preparation is complete. The pandemic came in the spring of this year. We had the parliamentary debate last autumn. This means that the government has had plenty of time, since last autumn and even before my interpellation, to address this issue. But I think it's a little bit in what Kjell Jansson is into. Ownership is not part of the government's DNA. Ownership is not an important and priority political issue. We are talking about hundreds, perhaps thousands, of people in Norrbotten alone who are affected by this legislation. It can also be about other areas. A small town somewhere in southern Sweden where mining may take place will be affected by this issue. If you get the idea of drawing a new high-speed railway through Sweden, there will also be many affected by this. The question is therefore important.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-542	Madam President, I would like It is true that property rights are constitutionally protected. It's also the right of public access. It's on 2th. Section 15, the form of government, i.e. in the same paragraph. Why is it in there? Yes, it is to point out that there are other interests in the world as well. Sweden consists not only of landowners but also of other people who have other legitimate interests to pursue their particular issues. Right of public access, the right to be able to roam freely in the forest and land, is one of those. It's constitutional protection. Protecting the right of access was not a moderate initiative, I can say, but a Social Democratic initiative. It was an example of interests other than those of landowners. I have a long line of others. The beach shelter was mentioned before. Apparently, the Moderates want to abolish that now. Should we have an order where we rebuild the beaches so that people can't come out and swim? I am from Skåne, an area in Sweden with three sides of coast. But there are no long coasts, and we are over a million inhabitants. What would it look like without beach shelter? Of course, these beaches would be rebuilt in no time so that ordinary people would not be able to come out and swim. Is that where the Moderates want to go? Take other important social investments, such as building roads and railways. Sometimes you also need to use land. My point is that certainly the interests of landowners are important, but there are also other interests in the world to take into account. That is exactly how the legislation is designed, with a balance between these interests. Then the Moderates say the participation is undermined. I'm saying it's exactly the opposite. In fact, participation has been strengthened in recent years by amending the legislation on expropriation. If land is to be expropriated, the State should not only pay the land value but a further 25%. The amendment in that part took place about ten years ago. Now the Moderates, which I claim unilaterally represents the interests of land and forest owners, say that now we must enter and amend the constitution. Then I say that there is a constitutional settlement that is ten years old. This may be the case, says Kjell Jansson. Yeah, that's it. We settled, between our parties, in a cross-block agreement on what the Constitution would look like. I took Per Unckel in hand and said that this is what is going on in the future. It was a big deal, everything that had to do with the form of government. This was just part of it. Am I surprised that the Moderates now want to break that constitutional agreement? No, I don't think I am, after all, because what I've seen in the last few years is that the Moderates can't make any deal at all. Nor are you able to make a cross-block deal. This is particularly serious precisely because it concerns the Constitution. Normally in the Swedish Parliament we hold constitutional agreements. I also point to two ongoing investigations. They are not mine; they are in other departments. I have the constitutional questions, but I don't have the planning questions. It is the Forest Investigation and the Review of the Species Protection Regulation, and both are actually aimed at strengthening the interest of landowners. We will see if these investigations solve the problems you are pointing to, and so I say that we will have to wait a little before we begin to tear down the whole constitution. The basic law is not changed in a quick fashion. If so, it is an amendment that can enter into force in 2027. I assume you want a result sooner than that, and that's why these investigations are important.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-552	Madam President, I would like I want to make it clear that the Moderates do not want to abolish the right of public access - absolutely not. But I can assure the Government that it is not over-exploited in the archipelago. Out to Vaxholm it is very exploited. But north of Vaxholm there are so many beaches that are completely unexploited, and there are landowners who certainly have an interest in building there. I can also assure the Government that there is no congestion in the archipelago. I spend much of my time after midsummer in the outer archipelago. It's certainly not a crowd. I'm usually alone on the farts when I go out into the archipelago. Furthermore, the Government says it is about 2027. I do not know how long it will take, but Parliament has decided that ownership will be strengthened. It has been prepared by the Constitutional Committee. They have agreed to this. The reservation of the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party is not surprising, but the other parties in this House support it. There is a fairly strong majority for this in this House. That is why I think it is negligent to respond in this way. Ownership is constitutionally protected, absolutely, but its interpretation does not seem to be constitutionally protected. I would argue that what is happening is rather arbitrary. If someone is going to cut up a plot, Lantmäteriet can claim that it is inappropriate to build there. But it is actually the respective building committee in the municipalities that determines land use and not Lantmäteriet. It's basically not the county administrative board, but they're interfering in more and more. They have a lot of veto today. It's going to overdo it. Ownership is clearly being undermined. The basis for a functioning democracy is strong ownership and a market economy. Ownership is increasingly being eroded, which means that landowners do not dare to invest in different things. This is a serious problem that needs to be addressed. The Swedish Forest Board goes forward as a mowing machine without any consideration to the landowners when making agreements with farmers and forest owners. I know that some landowners have been taken away from between 30 and 50% of the forest. It is the same method that the Swedish Board of Agriculture used in the 1970s against the small farmers, whose farms they plundered so they had to move. Look at the show Home to the village! It illustrates this very well. The timber warehouse is another thing. If the forest owners need to take out timber that the log cars are going to pick up, you put it on your land near the road. Then the state must have fees, although the timber is located on the forest owner's own land. I can't believe it in my world. There are many official interpretations that are not legally secure. I'm not saying it's government activism, but landowners and farmers can experience it that way. The state and its authorities have become too strong, and property rights are gradually weakened.
i-RQDZy257o8zvtu7jyazJjF	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Morgan Johansson, for the answers! I would like to make it clear that we should not abolish the protection of the beach, but we want to give more power to the municipalities to control the protection of the beach. It's a very important adjustment. At the moment, there is information that up to one third of Sweden's surface is protected by a beach. Many landowners then feel that we have a construction ban on that surface. For self-exploitation, it is in practice a construction ban, and therefore the Moderates feel that it is more appropriate for the municipality to strike such a balance. It is therefore not a question of public access to a beach or of being able to add the boat, but of the fact that the purpose of beach protection affects the ownership of landowners almost absurdly. You don't see the function. There has never been a human being there, but you justify it with someone being able to do it in the future. On this basis, the landowner is directly prevented from doing the construction or similar that the landowner has intended. I ask Morgan Johansson again: Is the limit reached when it comes to land area that is beach protected?
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-564	Madam President, I would like I am not ashamed for a moment to stand here in the pulpit and be a vote for the thousands of homeowners, houseowners, who are in danger of receiving poor compensation when the state, or anyone else, needs to expropriate their land. That is why I raised an interpellation a few years ago, that is why I raised a written question and that is why I am asking the question today: when will property owners be given more protection in the legislation when they get their property redeemed? This issue really affects Norrbotten. Sometimes I wonder if the government dislikes Norrbotten, my old homeland. You have introduced air tax, you increase petrol tax, you reduce road maintenance, and you do not want to give thousands of house owners greater protection in legislation when you need to expropriate their homes. It's not about the benefit of society. I am not standing here saying that we should not have a mining industry in Kiruna. On the contrary, I am absolutely convinced that everyone who lives in Kiruna thinks it is very important with mining industry in Kiruna. But it's about getting a fair remuneration if your property is redeemed. It has probably been solved on a voluntary basis in Malmberget and Kiruna right now, but it is not thanks to legislation. There has been an investigation, and there is an investigation with proposals that are likely to be carried out. I also believe that the intervention by Minister Johansson in this debate shows exactly what I said, namely that it is not in the political DNA that one should have strong ownership in Sweden. Morgan Johansson problematizes everything else and almost shows an arrogant attitude.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-569	Madam President, I would like I'm a show, but I love Norrbotten! And I'm glad that Norrbotten is doing well, because it is now doing so with the major investments that are being made. As things stand right now, it is one of the best labour markets in the country. Norrbotten is doing great, and most municipalities are governed by social democrats. I am happy to do everything I can to ensure that Norrbotten can continue to develop in a good way. The issue of moving houses was resolved at this point by LKAB. We followed the matter closely precisely to see that it could be resolved. What we need to do is take altitude for similar situations in the future. It was an exceptional situation when there had to be such large relocations and that the additional 25% would not be able to cope with the compensation itself. However, we will continue to work on the legislative proposal in order to be able to raise the profile of this issue. Then we come back when we are finished; we are anxious to resolve the issue. Normally, when a property is redeemed, you will receive not only the property value but also an additional 25 per cent. You make a profit in that part, and that's good. It is not to be said that the state acts unhemly in those situations. I am, of course, prepared to go forward with legislation when we are done with the preparation. The government had a lot to do this spring at the Government Office. It applied to all departments, but especially to my department in some respects. When we saw that the issues were already resolved so far, we put some legislative projects aside. But, of course, we continue with that preparation. Basically, it is a question of waiting for the investigations. I am not responsible for planning, forestry, species protection or investigations. I am responsible for what the Constitution says. At the same time, however, I am convinced that the problems you are pointing out, namely legal certainty for landowners, compensation issues and other things, will be resolved within the framework of the current constitutional regulation. That is exactly what I want to point out. If I now go forward with a new parliamentary committee to review the wording of the government form, such a bill cannot be submitted before the next elections, but we are talking about a law that can come into force after the next elections, namely 2026, at best on 1 January 2027. I don't think any of the interpellants want to wait so long to get anything done. The January agreement points out the issues you have raised, and I hope that we can resolve them within the framework of the Constitution. Then, in my first speech, I said that I am somewhat annoyed by the fact that you no longer have any respect for constitutional agreements. These are important things. When the parties agree that, from now on, certain rules of the game will apply, and they have been negotiated in the framework of such a review, they must nevertheless be prepared to stand by the constitutional agreement for a long time. I can then say that the Moderates do not want to do so. I would say that it was a little different at Gun Hellsvik's and Per Unckel's time when we could really trust that you stood for that kind of deal. Now we have to wait for the investigations, look at them and see if they solve the problems you have raised. I am convinced that we can see that a good step has been taken. Then we can take the discussion from there.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-577	Madam President and Minister Morgan Johansson! Let me read out the decision taken in this House in June 2019. The Parliament addressed an announcement to the government in report 2018/ 19:KU27 That was the decision. All parties were behind this except the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party. I would also like to ask the Government whether the Government considers that 300 metres of beach protection is reasonable. Has the Government seen a beach in Sweden that is 300 meters? Falsterbonäset has the largest beaches today. They're not supposed to be 300 meters deep. With 300 meters, you're up in the woods and the villa communities. It is completely absurd with 300 meters of beach shelter. That's completely unreasonable. Germany may have 10 to 30 meters of beach protection depending on the conditions, such as soil conditions. In principle, I believe that the municipalities should govern the protection of the beach in their master plans, not the state. It is essentially a question of land use and of taking into account the wishes of landowners. Today, individual officials sit on county boards and over-examine democratically elected building boards' decisions on land use – with cloudy arguments, I would argue. Does the Government think that's a good thing? Does the Government think it's legal? I hope that the Government will respect this House's decision and set up the parliamentary committee, even if the job is not done until, as has been said, in 2027. Thank you for the debate.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-581	Madam President, I would like On the first question of legal certainty, I can say that any administrative decision can be appealed in court. Not only do some individual officials make judgments, but in the end it is also a judicial review. What happened after the announcement? Well, what has happened is that there was a January agreement with a point on this issue. As an outflow of that point, the result of that point, came the Forest Investigation and the Species Protection Investigation. Another point in the January agreement is to review beach protection to make it more flexible. We Social Democrats will never agree to abolish beach protection. We certainly do not want a development involving the rebuilding of beaches. You do not have to go very far out in Europe to see what can happen if you completely let go of the regulations. We do not want that because we believe that we are responsible for citizens' opportunities to get out to the coasts and enjoy our natural values. That's what we stand for. On the other hand, flexibility can be discussed. In different parts of the country, this issue can be viewed in different ways. It reflects that review. Before we begin to look into the constitutions, I think that we should wait for the investigations, the Forest Investigation, the Species Protection Investigation and the review carried out by the shoreguard, and then you will see that many of the problems can be solved within the framework of the investigations. The advantage is that they will be solved much faster than will be the case if we go by constitutional law.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-586	Madam President, I would like Magnus Oscarsson has asked me how I intend to work to ensure that coastal states agree on the quota allocation and thus also avoid the loss of the MSC label on Norwegian spring-slinging herring, so-called NVG herring. Magnus Oscarsson has also asked me how I intend to work to pursue the fish management issue within the EU, with the aim of meeting the requirements of management plans in accordance with the scientific advice and between the EU and the other parties involved. Finally, Magnus Oscarsson has asked me how I intend to ensure proportional fisheries control in Sweden with the application and monitoring of legislation in line with other EU countries. Each year, the coastal States concerned negotiate, inter alia, the management and fishing opportunities of the highly migratory stock NVG herring. The outcome of the coastal state negotiations on herring is of great importance for Swedish processing companies and the Swedish pelagic fishing industry. Sweden has relatively small shares of fishing, but the processing of herring is relatively extensive and Sweden is an important market for processed herring products. In recent years, coastal state negotiations have been complicated by the absence of an agreement covering all coastal states and by the fact that for several years there has been only a partial agreement between the EU, Norway, Iceland and Russia on a management strategy. One consequence of the absence of an agreement on the allocation between all coastal states is that unilateral fishing opportunities have been established which have exceeded overall agreements on total fishing opportunities. This is not considered sustainable in the long term, which also has the effect that the Marine Stewardship Council, MSC, has announced that the organisation intends to withdraw its eco-labelling of this fishery unless such an agreement is in place. In addition, the distribution of herring stocks may be further complicated as the number of coastal states will increase when the UK withdraws from the European Union. It is important to ensure biologically and socio-economically sustainable herring fishing. The availability of high-quality raw materials is important for the fish processing industry, which is mostly located in coastal municipalities where alternative employment is scarce. I will work to ensure that, in the negotiations with the other coastal states, the EU strives to achieve long-term sustainable management of herring and other stocks and that fishing opportunities are decided in line with the objectives and principles of the common fisheries policy. To achieve this, long-term management strategies are important tools, and the process of reviewing strategies that are out-of-date and establishing new strategies for stocks that do not have one therefore needs to continue. Effective coastal state cooperation is a prerequisite for long-term sustainable management, and I therefore generally support the search for solutions to bring about coastal state agreements involving all coastal states. With regard to the ongoing negotiations on the EU Fisheries Control Regulation, Sweden has, since the European Commission presented its proposal in 2018, been pushing for processed fishery products to be exempted from traceability requirements. The processed products that the fish industry and the government want to see excluded from traceability have undergone manufacturing steps where the raw materials have been cooked, seasoned and/ or preserved so that the original condition does not persist. We believe that it is therefore difficult to follow every raw material. Many times the products also contain more than one species. Examples of such products are fish buns or fish burgers. Sweden has argued that the benefit of control is not proportional to the high costs of maintaining the more accurate internal traceability of these products. The Government considers compliance and control to be important elements for ensuring sustainable fisheries and achieving the objectives set under the CFP. Control measures to stop illegal fishing shall be strengthened and shall be effective, cost-effective, proportionate and lead to improved and effective fisheries control – but without increasing the overall administrative burden on businesses. It is also important to provide a level playing field for fisheries operators. Traceability is an important tool for stopping illegal fishing, and it is therefore essential that an effective and well-functioning traceability system is in place. Sweden's national traceability system, i.e. the system already in place in Sweden, has received criticism from the fishing industry, which believes that the system involves disproportionate costs and contributes to discrimination against operators in other EU countries. In connection with the outbreak of covid-19, the government had a dialogue with the industry on this issue, among other things, and a result was that the Maritime and Water Authority introduced some relaxations in traceability requirements. In addition, the Government has on 8 October 2020 commissioned Statskontoret to evaluate the traceability system and, if necessary, propose changes to the system and reporting requirements. Statskontoret shall report on the assignment on 30 September 2021.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-596	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Since 2019, as a consequence of existing legislation and as the only country in Europe, Sweden has introduced a traceability system that requires information to be collected, recorded and flowed in real time between all actors in the entire food chain. The other countries within the EU have essentially chosen to implement this by allowing each actor to have control one step forward and one step backwards in the value chain, i.e. under current food legislation. The Swedish implementation entails a disproportionate regulatory burden and bureaucratisation of the Swedish fishing industry in relation to what is achieved in terms of control benefits and more sustainable fishing. The consequences, Madam President, are the exclusion of small and medium-sized enterprises and a general reduction in the competitiveness of the Swedish fishing industry. In addition, these impacts will further escalate, regardless of the outcome of the ongoing work on updating fisheries control legislation in the EU. It is clear that this is contrary not only to the overall objective of the Swedish Food Strategy but also to the more specific that the design of rules and conditions should support the goal of a more competitive sustainable food chain and that the food market should be characterised by well-functioning competition. Madam President, I would like It also contradicts the instructions expressed in regulatory letters for cost-effective regulatory frameworks, that is to say, the rules and procedures at the disposal of the authorities should be cost-effective and simplify for citizens and businesses and minimise the administrative burden on businesses in line with the objectives of the food strategy, which we adopted in this House over three years ago. It is therefore very gratifying that the Minister has now set up an investigation into the traceability system, which actually exists only in Sweden. My question to the Minister, however, is: how could the government have imposed a mandatory traceability requirement, moreover, as the only country in the EU, despite stinging criticisms from both the fishing industry and the Swedish grocery trade? Was it even a mistake to introduce the requirement?
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-602	Madam President, I would like Blekinge has a multi-thousand-year tradition of fishing – the latest excavations in Sölvesborg have shown that it dates back almost 10 000 years – and a centuries-old tradition of a basic industry that is very important to our home food, which today stands on the fine table after having previously been so-called poor man's food. From being a very lively fishing fleet on many hundreds of vessels, the fishing fleet on the south coast has now shrunk to about 20 brave vessels. Over the past 30 years, challenges have been seen in the form of a variety of pressures. Of course, the most basic thing is the reduction of fish stocks. There are many different reasons for this, such as environmental impact, seals and cormorants. Rules by many different authorities and the EU's fisheries policy have also been affected. In his interpellation, the interpelletant Magnus Oscarsson highlighted a number of the measures that need to be reviewed, as the government in turn does. However, one can add a number of additional issues that the Moderates have expressed in their 34-point programme for a sustainable fisheries policy. This is a profession that is hard hit by various rules that are complicated and sometimes run counter to each other. The Government is very aware of this; I know that. I would like to state that in our joint work for the valiant fishermen who remain, there is political agreement. I would like to dwell in this speech on the present. In November, the still standing for herring fishing between May and August of the year down, as a surprise to members of parliament in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture and, above all, to the industry. The costs are not reduced just because boats lie still at berth. Ships cost, especially when they lie still, as well as gear. It also has consequences for the processing industry, where redundancies have resulted. Compensation for this is a problem with the current agreements. We are entering a new long-term budget for the EU with new negotiations, and I would like to ask the Minister how it intends to deal with standstill payments in the future. This applies both to direct payments and to how to manage standstills and to use fishermen's knowledge, for example, in terms of looking for ghost nets, research and changing their gears, such as moving from cod trawlers to herring nets and flat-sea fishing gear. The indications, which are a small circumstance at present, according to what the Swedish Board of Agriculture says, are when you enter into the negotiations that it is most possible to receive compensation for six months over six years – so that means compensation approximately one month per year. In the current year, this period is four months; given the pressures on professional fishing, I do not think we can look forward to it being shorter in the future.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-609	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, interpellant and Annicka Engblom, for the questions! I'll try to answer them as best I can. One challenge is that there are really at least two completely different issues in this interpellation, although they are of course connected – ultimately this affects the fishermen's ability to carry out their activities. I am pleased that the consensus on the importance of this has been noted in the debate. It is an important industry for cultural and historical reasons, but perhaps mainly because it is part of living coastal communities; it affects so much more than fishing. Moreover, this is a healthy and good food that we want to ensure for the future as well. Therefore, the questions are broad – or broad – and small. We need to be able to handle all the parts both white and piecewise. I start with Magnus Oscarsson's questions, which are the origins of the interpellation and which are linked both to coastal state negotiations with other countries and the problems that exist there as well as to the traceability system. As far as the coastal state negotiations are concerned, it is the huge state of affairs on the part of the government to push towards, first and foremost, the EU, which is the negotiating party in these contexts, in order to achieve sustainable quotas and levels. However, this is complicated. The big problem is not to agree with other states – Russia, the Faroe Islands, Greenland, Iceland, Norway and so on – on a sustainable quota overall, but that is that we do not agree on the distribution. Some countries claim that the distribution should be based on zone membership; others claim that it should be based on historical fishing. The result is the conclusion of what is called unilateral agreements. This means that, overall, there are far too many quotas, and that is not sustainable in the long term. This is a major challenge, and I am concerned that it will even be an even greater challenge with UK withdrawal from the EU. One of the major issues that drives this – and one of the major issues of failure in the exit negotiations – is precisely fisheries. The British are very keen to count zone membership and to take a greater share of this fishing, and that will make this issue even more difficult. It will also mean that the EU is no longer a party to these negotiations, because the EU is a party that the UK has been involved. We will not actually have the right to negotiate on these issues. Of course, we need to push, and we need to create opinion. We need secure channels for cooperation and control of this as far as possible given the conditions that exist. The problem with control linked to this is that if there is no agreement, no one is in breach of any agreement either. This means that the control mechanisms that otherwise exist – sanctions and other things that we use when an EU country violates an EU agreement – are not applicable. This is a discussion that is taking place and in which we are trying to find solutions, particularly with other countries concerned in the framework of EU cooperation. That is where we can best influence this right now. With regard to traceability, there are two parts. We are now working in the EU, which means that the traceability control regulation that exists will be tightened up. There, Sweden has raised several questions. One of them is about what I explained in my reply, namely how we view processed products. We are still pushing that question. We are trying to create a majority in favour of our approach to this issue, and I hope that we will get all the way to the end. Other issues we have succeeded in, such as the registration of recreational craft, which was another part of this regulation which would have created huge problems for Sweden if it had been as in the original proposal. That's what we've been able to get rid of. I'll have to come back to the other questions, because that's where my time ran out.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-621	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Minister may continue to say that the Government itself has imposed a mandatory traceability requirement. The Minister will be happy to elaborate on that. It is of course very good that the Minister has now allowed an investigation to take place; that is very positive. Herring is of course incredibly important for many coastal municipalities, such as Sölvesborg, whose municipal management is here today, Simrishamn and Karlskrona. Every year, tonnes of herring are fished from the Baltic Sea. This is an important food for consumers; only in Sweden we eat herring for 800 million SEK. Sill is also eaten not only in Sweden but also abroad. In addition, there are many jobs involved. It is positive that the government has actually got to this with the exception of coastal herring fishing during the cod stop. It is probably no exaggeration to say that this has actually saved eastern Skåne's and Blekinge's blue nourishment from full-scale disaster. But instead of now sitting back and saying that everything is fine, I think it is time for the government to think about what is preventing the blue, coastal industry from becoming even more important, also in view of the food strategy n. One important thing is this with a long-term perspective. I think it is important that we can now actually have a long-term view of the decisions that are taken for the fishermen and for the companies that work with the industry, so that they know what is going on in the future. It's extremely important. They themselves say: we must have a long-term perspective. We have expensive boats, expensive factories and many employees. We need to know what's going on in the future. Another thing that I also think is important is that Sweden has the lowest share of fishing for human consumption in all Baltic Sea countries, despite the fact that herring and sprat are both climate-smart and beneficial. It is in fact very gratifying, Mr President, that we now have the lowest levels of dioxins in the eastern Baltic Sea. We have been well below the dioxin limit values for years. What may be worrying, however, is that we do not talk about it much, but we always hear that herring is full of dioxins. But that is not the case anymore, so I think it is important to mention that herring is very positive in this way. Another thing is the quotas. One concern is that quotas going to human consumption are below 10%. The rest goes to fishmeal. Human consumption is important for the processing industry, for coastal communities and for the consumer. The quotas for human consumption are now below 10%, as can be seen in the light of the food strategy, which, by the way, we decided three years ago, which may be good to know. After all, the cornerstone of the food strategy is that it will be better profitability and more competitive. A supporting stone is also that the self-sufficiency of food should increase.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-631	Mr President, I would like to I would like to touch on the interpellete and stress this with a long-term perspective. It has been quite hatry, including with regard to the down payment. I hope that the Government will respond to how it intends, in the short term, to deal with the issue during the herring stop this year and what to answer the fishermen in the municipality of Sölvesborg, among others. It hurts my heart that after a long career in the industry it was the nail in the coffin or bottom out for Lennart Arvidsson, which is a fishing icon down in Nogersund. In view of all the challenges ahead, a holistic approach is needed across the industry. The problem, which I think the Government is very aware of, is that when the Swedish Fisheries Agency was closed in 2011 and the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management was founded they lost the nutritional perspective. This is a business with entrepreneurs who have costs when the ships lie still. They actually rust when in the water, and it costs an enormous amount of maintenance. What do you do in the short term, and what do you do in the longer term? I am absolutely convinced that we will see more standstills in the future. Of course, when we have the issue of agreements with other EU countries, especially those bordering the Baltic Sea, we must also raise the hot issue of bottom trawling. We all agree on the benefits and benefits of the sustainable fisheries that coastal professional fishing represents. But it becomes quite futile when you have trawlers that go into the Baltic Sea and completely scrapes everything that is there.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-637	Mr President, I would like to Now it didn't get any easier, because a few more questions came up. I'll try to answer as best I can in the limited time I have. I shall start again with the interpellier's questions, which I think is reasonable, and I will reply to those which I did not quite have time for the first round, namely on traceability. In short, I can say that it is the Maritime and Water Authority that has been responsible for how we should apply the regulations. It is said in the debate, and so did the interpeller, that only Sweden has done this and that all the other countries have done it in a different way. This indicates that all other EU countries would have done the same and that Sweden is different. It's both true and false. Most countries have, of course, adapted the regulatory framework according to how it works in each country, so I would say that everyone has done differently. Sweden is usually very literal and has interpreted it as following traceability more closely than food control, because it follows linearly. Here you have to backtrack and front frack. I have noted the same criticism from the industry as to how proportionate this is and what effect it will have in comparison with other countries. This is a new regulation; it has only been in place for a little more than a year. We are now giving an assignment to an independent authority, Statskontoret, to evaluate the system and look at how other countries have done and propose, if you consider it appropriate, changes based on proportionality and on how other countries have done. It shows that we are taking this very seriously and that it is an important issue. We do not want to burden an otherwise severely affected industry with controls and systems that we do not need. That is a clear answer to your question. Then I had many questions about quotas and quota negotiations in addition to those relating to states, that is, the negotiations that the EU is conducting internally on the distribution of quotas between us. These negotiations are always held in October. Last October we had good success in the negotiations, given that Sweden is pushing for everything to be based on scientific advice. This means that we want quotas that are as close as possible to scientific advice. We usually think the same as the Commission, so we tend to advocate quotas that are as close to the Commission's proposal as possible – high or low quota depending on the status of the fishery or stock. Last year, our only concern about the negotiations was that the Commission proposed a change in the design of how to put a stop to play, thus banning all fishing when cod is playing. We got no response from any other country. We argued that scientific advice was not followed, that too many precautionary principles were used and closed areas of deep water where cod do not play. We also felt that it did not take account of whether it was proportionate or not, without receiving a response from any other country or from the Commission. Immediately when we went home from Brussels last year, we started work to ensure how we could change this for the next year. It was no surprise to anyone that the result would be bad. Nor do I share the picture that it was a surprise to all the other parties and to the industry. Before the negotiations we had dialogue meetings where we raised the entire Swedish negotiating position with both the industry and the parties of the Riksdag, so they have to take responsibility for listening and reading. On the other hand, we have worked intensively to inform stakeholders, both in the Commission and in other countries, about what science says and how an alternative design could be found so that this does not get disproportionate results. That work gave fruit when we negotiated at the beginning of this week in Brussels. We were given a new form there, which I mean means better conditions both for coastal herring fishing and for small-scale fishing for, for example, flatfish.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-647	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. I must say that I am delighted with the clear answer given by the Minister. I also see a certain amount of self-criticism in the fact that we are now looking at this, and I think that is very positive. In fact, the herring stop that was introduced last year was completely disastrous for the entire fishing industry. By stopping herring for another year, the whole industry would most likely have gone to the grave. Therefore, the work that the Riksdag has done is positive, that there will not be a herring stop in 2021. On the other hand, it is extremely regrettable that the government has established that there is no compensation at all for fishermen who were not allowed to fish herring during the year. Many fishermen gained hope during the interpellation debate that the Minister and I had at the end of May this year. There, the Minister said, "It has now opened up opportunities for a fast track to make programme changes, which means that Sweden could introduce a stagnant support. That is a question that we are now preparing as soon as we can. Here it is about finding Swedish co-financing for the proposal and being able to implement it in a good way as quickly as possible. ..................................................... Furthermore, the Minister said, my ambition is to come back as soon as possible. We speed up the issue of delivering on the last part, i.e. a sedentary support. ..................................................... My question to the Minister is: what happened from the interpellation debate on 29 May with the positive terms of seeing opportunities, which gave fishermen a great deal of hope, until today when it is felt that the door to providing sedentary support is completely closed? Thank you for the debate.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-652	Mr President, I would like to I thank Magnus Oscarsson. What happened was that we did exactly what I said in the debate. The Members of this House need to know a little about the issues. I believe that Magnus Oscarsson knows that the opportunity given by the EU to change the programmes, and it was all the programmes including the EMFF, which regulate these issues, were given due to covid. In June, Sweden introduced compensatory payments in respect of covid and the criteria set by the Commission, which applied from June. The discussion that has now flared up is rather unserious in character in that it mixes and ignores the facts. It is quite dishonest to those concerned, that is, fishermen, who are given hope where there is really no reason for what they say in the debate. It's troubling. The door for restless support was closed before 2014 when Sweden adopted the programme for that period and chose to remove sedentary as an alternative. A programme change can be made, but it takes up to a year and a half and must be approved by the Commission. There's one more year in the programming period. Therefore, Annicka Engblom's question is much more relevant in this context: What do we do for the next programming period? We are preparing this work right now, and then we need to decide again what different tools are to be found in the Swedish programme. It's not about money. If you cannot provide sedentary support, can you not give national support? Unfortunately, the answer is no. We've looked into it very carefully, because we all wanted to. But this is what state aid rules say no to. Not all the ceilings referred to are Swedish rules, but they are EU rules linked to the programming period. If you really want to create long-term conditions, you must first and foremost ensure that there is something to fish. Then the design of the play closure periods may be the most important tool. We'll have to work on the tools we have in the system. Can we replace in any other way? It was mentioned in the debate that one should be able to get compensation for other things, such as catching ghost nets and helping for research purposes. This is what we have opened up to. Otherwise, we must help to find all the constructive ways of solving this properly, because the fishermen certainly deserve it.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-662	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hultberg has asked me if I am prepared to give the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, through an addition to the instructions to the authority, the task of promoting competitive Swedish professional fishing and aquaculture and whether I share the view of the Finnish fishing municipalities that larger processing facilities for fish and shellfish as well as landing ports should be seen as national rather than municipal interests. Furthermore, Johan Hultberg has asked me whether I will take any initiatives to increase national responsibility for, for example, landing ports and the processing industry, which are important for Swedish professional fishing and aquaculture. The Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management works on behalf of the Government for the conservation, restoration and sustainable use of lakes, watercourses, seas and fish resources. The Authority has been entrusted with the management of fishery resources since the end of 2011. In 2011, the National Agriculture Agency was tasked with promoting professional fishing, aquaculture, recreational fishing and fishing tourism, and is also the managing authority for the maritime and fisheries programme. I share Johan Hultberg's view that it is important for the relevant authorities to work actively to contribute to competitive professional fishing and aquaculture. Regulatory simplification and efforts to reduce the administrative burden are an important part of this work. It is important that regulatory frameworks are designed in a simple and understandable way and are appropriate whether they are developed at national or EU level. All authorities that can influence the administrative costs of companies in their activities therefore need to work on simplifying rules that impose a burden. This is an ongoing work that I follow very closely. The authorities have started work on a common strategy for Swedish fisheries and aquaculture. The government has made it clear in the respective regulatory letters that the strategy and the se ktor's specific action plans should be based on ecosystem approach and contribute to strengthening the achievement of targets in the m arithmetic strategy, including the usive sustainable blue economy, and in A food strategy for Sweden – more jobs and sustainable growth throughout the country. The strategy shall contribute to a competitive and sustainable food chain, in particular by taking into account skills provision, diversification and profitability, as well as reducing workplace accidents and fatal accidents. The work also includes considering research and innovation as well as the opportunities of the tourism industry. Common objectives and cooperation between the National Agricultural Agency and the Agency for Marine and Water Management, together with other relevant authorities and organisations, allow for coordination between promotion and management. We await the re-reporting of this mission. I also share Johan Hultberg's view that respirators and the processing industry are very important for Swedish professional fishing and aquaculture. That is why the government is working to ensure that we have long-term sustainable quotas, and that through trade agreements and autonomous tariff quotas we ensure that the processing industry has access to the raw materials that are needed. In the negotiations currently under way on autonomous tariff quotas for certain fishery products, we are pressing for the needs of the processing industry to be ensured so that we have reliable supplies of raw materials of the right quality and quantity at competitive prices. Sweden's municipalities will provide the residents of their municipality with services that are located where the inhabitants live. One of the municipalities' community's tasks is to provide water services. For the authorisation testing of food production and waste water treatment facilities, the environmental code requires best available techniques and compliance with existing environmental quality standards in the recipient regardless of the operator applying for a permit for the installation. It is important to continue good cooperation between the state and the municipalities to address the challenges and realise the potential for sustainable blue development along our entire coast. However, this cannot be done at the expense of the status of fish stocks or the deterioration of the environment, not least because it has negative effects on both the fishing industry and other social interests. It is important for me and the government that in future there are also conditions for a strong fishing industry that supplies and prepares fishery products in Sweden.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-672	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Rural Development for his answer. Let me start with a positive observation. I often think that fisheries issues are being debated far too little in this House and that too few Members are involved in these issues. Now I am pleased to note that there were several questions about this at Question Time earlier this afternoon and that just before this debate there was another debate on the conditions for professional fishing and, more specifically, herring fishing, which is also largely concerned by this interpellation. Another positive observation, which is actually the basis for my interpellation, is that I see enormous potential in Swedish professional fishing and its associated processing industry. I am convinced that our professional fishing has the opportunity to develop and deliver more jobs, increased growth, goods for the local community as well as for other related industries and industries that benefit from what professional fishing does, such as the tourism industry. I also see enormous potential for growing aquaculture, both land-based, at sea and in lakes. If we are to succeed in taking advantage of the potential, it would have a major positive impact on Sweden's gross domestic product. Not least, it would mean a great deal locally in the areas and places where professional fishing and its industry and now also growing aquaculture are an important part of local business and culture, as in the home of Bohuslän where I live. The background to my interpellation is also that there are serious problems for professional fishing and for the processing industry which I think we need to address and discuss what we can do about. We see that the number of fishermen and fishing vessels in Sweden has decreased drastically. At the same time, we see that the average age of today's fishermen is high and rising. We see that Sweden has a shortage of landing ports and that we have a great investment need around Sweden when it comes to fishing infrastructure. We also see that we have only a few larger processing industries left and that only about 15 per cent of Swedish herring and sprat are processed in Sweden. These, Mr President, are just a few examples of things that get me anyway and, I hope, also the Minister for Rural Development to think about what we can do politically to create better conditions for Swedish fishing and its processing industry. As a moderate, it is quite clear to me that, regardless of the industry, businesses in a sector must be able to stand on their own feet. All industries are undergoing structural change, and companies must always be able to face changes and competition on their own. As politicians, we have a great responsibility to give entrepreneurs good opportunities to operate and develop. This is where I think the government has a lot to do. The government is doing too little, Mr President, taking too few initiatives and taking too few concrete measures. I hope that the Minister can be a little more specific about how the government wants, for example, to support the infrastructure and ensure access to landing ports, as the Minister clearly stated is important, and not least about the question of long-termness and how the government acts to ensure that we may have more multi-annual management plans in place so that professional fishing is better placed to know for a certain foreseeable future what professional fishing can be conducted.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-681	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Hultberg, for the question! Thank you also for the constructive approach to the issues and for the interpeller to see that a lot is being done and that good things are happening! I really miss people who highlight the potential of this industry. It is quite right that Johan Hultberg says that this is a profession facing enormous challenges. You shouldn't turn a blind eye to challenges. You should discuss them and seek constructive ways to solve them, but if you want to develop a potential you need to clear things such as generational change. It's an aged profession to a large extent. I share that image. If you want to get young people and new generations to enter there, you need to create a story about why it is important, why it is good jobs and how businesses develop there, while managing two images at the same time. It's always a big challenge. In order to touch in some sense what is being done, there are several things currently linked to professional fishing and the challenges that exist. If you talk about the Baltic Sea in this context, which I understood a little related to the issue, you can see that the marine environment is the biggest challenge for future professional fishing. Although, of course, we should do what we can with regard to quotas and other things, the situation there will not be satisfactory if we do not address environmental problems in the sea as well. Therefore, the government allocates 240 million extra during this year in order to be able to work to preserve the marine environment and make it better. We are also doing another important thing in connection with when quotas and other things make it impossible to fish in the way you want. This is a question of creating long-term prospects, not least in terms of income, for a fisherman. In the amendment of the regulation for this year, while providing for more money, we made a change which meant that fishermen can now actively be part of and receive compensation for cleaning the sea from plastics and tools, or participating in research projects linked to the environmental situation or developing selective tools. It is an action that works to connect with what is in the EMFF for Sweden and what we actually have in our programme. We talked in the previous interpellation debate about things that we do not have, such as still support and scrapping premiums. This has been a way to create co-financing and conditions for working with tools that open and are possible. In addition to this, we are working on simplification issues. I described earlier, for example, the action we are now taking when we review the implementation of traceability systems based on criticism from the industry. In dialogue with the industry, we try to be sensitive to both the problems and the opportunities they see. Despite the fact that this is a profession that is having a hell of a hard time right now, to put it mildly, I see that they are still willing to be involved in constructive discussions on how to solve challenges and problems. Apart from this, of course, it is a question of making the whole chain work. One example mentioned is landing ports and what the government is prepared to do there. It is part of the infrastructure for fishing and, above all, the processing of fishery raw materials. That is why it is a very important issue, but perhaps the most important thing for it is to ensure the availability of raw materials. Then we are back at the quotas, but I will come back to that in my next speech.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-687	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for returning to the question of infrastructure. As I raised in my interpellation, the prerequisite is for us to have a viable and competitive professional fishing that develops that there are the right conditions both in the sea and in our lakes, for the fishermen who fish there. We also need the right conditions in that we have competitive taxes, a competitive regulatory framework, authorities that are constructive and understand the needs of the industry and, not least, a functioning infrastructure. One of the core issues of this interpellation debate is that we have a challenge in the fact that much of the infrastructure of the fishing industry and processing industry is owned and operated by small municipalities. It is municipalities such as Sölvesborg, which was mentioned in the previous interpellation debate, my own municipality Tanum but also municipalities such as Sotenäs and small municipalities such as Orust, which now has the largest processing industry for human consumption in Sweden, namely Scandic Pelagic in Ellös, which is threatened with closure if a solution cannot be found to meet the stricter cleaning requirements for its processing industry. I think it is really important to get this discussion going. I fully agree there: it is not simple. It is not obvious where the boundaries should be for what is the municipality's responsibility, what should be the industry's own responsibility and what should be the responsibility of the state, but just as we have a lively and constant discussion about infrastructure in terms of roads and railways and what should be on the respective actors, I think we need to get this discussion started also for professional fishing. It will be very tough for small municipalities to manage to make the necessary investments. It is also very difficult, not least for local, coastal professional fishing, to bear these costs. For the larger pelagic fisheries, there are many times more opportunities to absorb some investments, but for the near-coastal professional fishing it is often very difficult. Another concrete question I had in my interpellation concerned the mission to the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management. We see in the food strategy and the marine strategy, for example, that it highlights the importance of authorities acting as promoters and that they play an important role in creating conditions for industry. The Swedish Board of Agriculture has a clear instruction, that they should have a promotion mission. That mission doesn't exist for the Marine and Water Authority. I think that the Minister has a chance here to send a clear signal to the industry in a simple and clear way that it is now giving the Maritime and Water Authority a clear instruction – that it actually has a mission to act as a promoter. Then there were other discussions and problem areas, such as the ageing corps and that we have problems with the recruitment of new fishermen. For my part, I have proposed that the Government give the Agency a mandate to develop an action plan for facilitating generational shifts and how to increase and facilitate the recruitment of new fishermen. Is the Minister and the government prepared to do so? The fishing industry is burdened with rules and bureaucracy. I have proposed a simplification commission. Is the government prepared to do so? I would like to see clear measures, Mr President, which lead us to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish professional fishing and its processing industry. Then it is not enough for us to just discuss and look at quotas and how to secure them, even though that is of course the basis for both professional fishing and the processing industry.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-695	Mr President, I would like to I thank Johan Hultberg for developing his thinking. I share his conclusion that it is not enough to look at quotas and to look at question by question. It is very much a matter of being able to take as large and comprehensive a grip as possible, with respect for the fact that it is complicated and sometimes difficult, not least because we often do not own many of these decisions ourselves. For example, quotas are negotiated both within the EU and with the EU and with other countries. There are very long processes and many grandeurs at stake. For example, with quantities at stake, I mean that much of the Brexit discussion, whether or not we get an agreement, may actually boil down to fish and fishing opportunities. So there is big politics in this too. Having said that, as a nation, we will of course do everything we can to create the best conditions for fishing in Sweden. I will try not to repeat what I have already said, but to extend my thinking in some sense. I think it was Johan Hultberg who said that it is dressable to be self-critical. I guess that goes for all of us. I note that the Swedish Fisheries Agency was phased out in 2011. Then we had an alliance government. I don't even think it was wrong. But you should not use it as a bat or indicate anything in the debate in that case. What I think is important is that it is acknowledged and accepted that the Swedish Board of Agriculture and the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management have two different tasks. The Swedish Board of Agriculture has the promotion mission. The Maritime and Water Authority is in charge of control and regulation. What we have done in this context is to give them a joint mission to develop a strategy for how they should work together. This mission already exists and will be reported to us by March at the latest. The aim is to get to exactly what I think Johan Hultberg wants us to get to, namely that these authorities should work to create the best possible conditions. Then, of course, we shall have a good control function and good rules and live up to what we need to do in order to ensure our credibility in negotiations and other things, but we shall also find systems that do not disproportionately complicate it for those who are going to do the craft itself, that is, the fishermen. We also need to look at and create the conditions for this. We are talking a lot about fishing right now, and that is quite natural. But, like I said, it's also about the infrastructure. I understood that the interpellant also pressed it and how important it is that this is connected. Once again, it is absolutely essential to safeguard the raw material base, and then quotas are important. One also needs to look at how the state can then help in investing in this type of business. I share the problem picture. For the small segments of the fishing industry and for small municipalities, this obviously means heavy investment. Then we need to look at how it is possible to create good structures in order to obtain investment aid and other things for this within the framework of what is possible. Under the EMFF, for example, the Maritime and Fisheries Fund, there are investment opportunities for both vessels and infrastructure, if I remember correctly. Perhaps this can be developed, and that is something you need to look at for the next programming period. But I do not think that we should limit ourselves to this, because this is an industry like many other industries. We have put quite a lot of effort into creating investment opportunities on the total, where the Swedish Agency for Growth has an overall responsibility to work both to remove regulatory issues for the entire industry and to distribute investment money that will create regional growth. Here, too, we need to ensure that this industry is also involved in the opportunities offered in the broader perspective.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-705	Mr President, I would like to In his last speech, the Minister highlighted the common strategy that the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, HaV, together with the Swedish Board of Agriculture, is now working to develop. I think it is an excellent initiative. It is very good that we will hopefully have a strategy that takes a broad approach and brings together both professional fishing and aquaculture. I see great synergies in between. It is also industries that sometimes need to share common resources. That's why it's good. It is also good that these two authorities work together as they have slightly different starting values and perspectives on the issues. There are a lot of good goals described in the draft that has been worked out. The strategy contains many good elements. But there is also a great deal that I miss in the strategy. It does not grasp the whole food chain. There is not a word on how to facilitate recruitment to professional fishing. It does not at all raise the issue of infrastructure, the lack of ports of landing and how it can be addressed. It does not affect how the processing industry can be strengthened and the problems I highlight in the interpellation that small municipalities find it very difficult to shoulder the great investment needs of landing ports, quays and other necessary infrastructure. Therefore, the whole answer cannot be this strategy. The way things look at the moment, this strategy will not address these problems. But I take it as a promise from the Minister that the government will continue to work on the issues of infrastructure. It is something that I think is strategically important here and which I highlight in my interpellation. The fishing municipalities are a cooperation organisation for municipalities where professional fishing is active and have stressed that the state needs to take greater responsibility and need to see some of these facilities as nationally important for professional fishing and for the processing industry.
i-71bb5f0e0527a23b-708	Mr President, I would like to I thank Johan Hultberg for this. I think that Johan Hultberg and I agree very much about what we want in terms of the conditions for this industry. I am also very pleased that I believe that we agree that there is a great potential here to be exploited. It still bodes well. With regard to the issues raised here, it is referred to that the strategy does not contain everything. I'm sure it won't. The strategy is not yet presented either. It shall be presented at the end of March. I have great hopes of how to solve issues that are about how to find good ways to work in harmony and create synergies when it comes to developing companies and having good regulations and other things. However, the mission is not to develop a complete marine strategy. There is a marine strategy that takes a more holistic approach. I think we need to update it, develop it and perhaps add action plans to it in the same way that we have worked on the food strategy. But we should also remember that the fishing industry is part of the food strategy. Here comes the effort via the food strategy, for example when it comes to developing the conditions for land-based fishing, that is, aquaculture and so on. I believe that much of the investment needs and opportunities in this sector need to be channelled that way and perhaps more clearly within the framework of what is the EMFF, so that we use the tools available and that we ensure that they can reinforce each other. They are often too small to be able to do what you want. However, if we can use them to strengthen synergies forward, I think we could get more out of this. Then you need to think about the whole thing, think constructively and think ahead. I welcome this kind of discussion. I always wish you had more time. I have 15 points here that I have not had time to do, and I think it may be the same for the interpellier. But this is our third fisheries debate, and I think we will have more.
