i-daaf4bed8a426df1-0	Mr President, I would like to Once again, secret documents on money laundering and tax evasion have been leaked. This time it is from the US financial police, who have revealed suspicious payments worldwide where thousands of billions linked to money laundering have been channeled internationally and also through major Swedish banks. The reason why the Left Party has raised the debate is that these are clear recurring elements in major Swedish banks. What we need is a policy of redeployment and smoothing economic disparities. Then we cannot have an economic elite that plunders the welfare and our common. Here, politics must correct the financial industry's system errors, and this is where we demand answers from the government – not least about the political measures.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-2	Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Left Party for the opportunity to discuss these important issues. The work against money laundering and tax evasion is crucial and takes the government very seriously. Then it is excellent that we also have a chance to discuss the issues in Parliament. These issues are difficult and complex and cross-border. There is not something that can meet these challenges alone, but a great deal of cooperation is needed here. The events reported by the media in recent years have clearly shown, to anyone who may have doubted it before, that money laundering is a problem that also concerns Sweden and Swedish banks. What has now been reported shows that banks and other companies must remain vigilant about the risks of money laundering. Let me first comment on the leak that has prompted this debate. According to the money laundering framework, banks and other companies must report suspected money laundering to the responsible authorities. The fact that banks comply with the rules and actually report suspicious transactions is crucial for the functioning of the system. Without it, law enforcement authorities would be in a significantly worse position to detect suspected payment flows and criminal arrangements. The leak that has led to the debate shows an example of such a report that has been made to the US Financial Intelligence Unit. Having said that, I have no information about the concrete transactions and suspicions that occur in the reporting. This is a matter for the criminal investigation authorities in particular. Responsible authorities in Sweden take suspicions of money laundering very seriously and also take appropriate measures whenever possible. When it comes to the work of the government in this context, we have reason to look back on some very intense years. In recent years, the government has concentrated its efforts in this area. In 2017, Sweden received a new law on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing. It was not that long ago, but in the three years since then the government has been able to tighten the regulatory framework in several respects. Only between May 2019 and May 2020 did the government put five different proposals on Parliament's table to further strengthen the work against money laundering. They have all been adopted and now become law. In order to prevent tax evasion, we have also introduced an obligation for banks and other financial institutions to identify foreign account holders among their customers and to provide information about them and their assets to the Swedish Tax Agency. The authorities responsible for combating money laundering and tax evasion have now also received increased resources; among other things, this year's budget proposal proposes that Finansinspektionen should receive SEK 10 million to work against money laundering. In total, Finansinspektionen has since 2014, when I took office, received increased funding by almost 60 per cent, or 232 million SEK. A significant part of that money has gone to precisely the anti-money laundering work. Among other things, the money laundering department has grown significantly from about 6 people when I took office in 2014 to about 20 people today. This does not mean that things cannot get better, especially because those who want to launder money also constantly come up with new ways of getting around the regulations. Against this background, and the announcement that all parties in the Swedish Parliament support, the government has set up an investigation to review parts of the money laundering acquis. These include analysing the conditions for better information sharing between banks and authorities. We also expect proposals for further reforms in the EU from the Commission after the end of the year. Only yesterday there was a discussion with the Committee on Finance on the likely direction of future proposals. I and the government continue to monitor this important area. The fact that the pace of reform has been high in recent years does not mean that we can now settle down, but the regulatory framework must also be equipped to meet the challenges of the future. Mr President, I would like to Crime should not pay off. A strong anti-money laundering and prevention system is a key to our having a sustainable financial system.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-12	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the special debate, and I would like to start by making a few basic remarks. Money laundering and tax evasion are two very serious crimes. Money laundering is a crime that is often committed to conceal other criminal activities. Not infrequently it is money that comes from illegal trafficking or corruption, which is divided up and placed in various businesses or properties that are subsequently sold. Then the money is split up again and allowed suddenly to be placed in any bank and washed. Money laundering is closely linked to tax crimes and illegal markets, to the exploitation of people, to activities that harm our economy, that undermine our welfare system and that foster trust in society. Tax evasion and money laundering are links in a criminal chain, where money can originate from street crime, gang crime and organised crime. Similarly, it is linked to an economic elite that exploits people and society, pushes and rounds the system to enrich itself. Combating tax evasion and money laundering is an important part of combating crime at large. It's connected. The work against money laundering is very important. Our society is supported by all ordinary, honest people who work, study, stretch and live on their well-deserved wages or paid pensions. They pay taxes to our insurance and our welfare. They're the ones who build society. All the money withheld from tax evasion would actually have been spent on wages, pensions, society and welfare. The crimes that form the basis of criminal money are destroying society. It is therefore important that we send out the message that we are doing everything we can to support the builders of society and that society should always be stronger than crime.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-17	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Left Party, which has initiated this important debate. The world has long been plagued by terrorism. Swedish society is plagued by gang crime and serious organised crime. It is not possible to get away from, as the Social Democrats and Björn Wiechel recently pointed out in the speaker's chair, that the financial system and the ability to launder money and evade taxes are a central part of the chain that threatens people's security every day through serious and organised crime. Mr President, I would like to That is also why we, the Moderates, have long and well-foundedly taken very seriously the crime that is taking place within the financial system. That is also why we support and have developed a series of measures to prevent the financial system from being exploited by criminal forces to destroy people's security. Full employment is the main starting point for Moderate economic policy. The fact that all people who can work also support themselves is an absolute norm in the national economy. High and sustainable economic growth is essential for us to cope with welfare funding and for everyone who works to have good wages to live on. Both for full employment and for growth, the financial system is absolutely crucial. Without the ability to borrow money and transfer money, you cannot do business with each other. You can't start a business. There will therefore be no jobs. Nor can you get a home and a good life. That is why crime in the financial system is extremely serious. Although it may seem far-fetched to the individual, crime in the financial system is a threat to the possibility of getting a job, starting a business or acquiring a home. Therefore, since the Left Party has initiated this debate, one should know the full anger of the Moderates against this type of crime. It affects what matters most to us in society: having a job, making a living, being able to acquire a home and being able to start a business, and therefore together as a society, we should be able to stand strong and live good lives. Wherever there is money and the opportunity to make money, there is not only room for organized crime, the one who somehow exploits and corrupts people's lives from the start. There is also unstoppable greed. People can earn a lot of money from other people's work through the push of a button. Therefore, banks and other financial institutions must always be kept tight in the community-wide leash so that they fulfil their role in the national economy by supporting jobs, entrepreneurship, growth and people who want to do things. A few people should not be able to enrich themselves on other people's hard work. But it is not based on envy for the people who succeed and are good in these industries. It is based on the perception that jobs and growth are essential for society to function.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-26	Mr President, I would like to Yes, these are important issues, and I dare to believe that all parties in Parliament are against tax crime, tax evasion and money laundering. As mentioned earlier, this has been demonstrated in the work of the Riksdag, including through the discussion of the Government's proposal for feedback on reporting on suspected money laundering, terrorist financing and certain other issues that all parties supported, and by a committee initiative to strengthen anti-money laundering measures – even there, no one had reservations about the decision. There are several other examples. Nor do there usually be major differences of opinion when it comes to taking a position on proposals to tackle tax evasion. The Swedish Democrats take the data on money laundering seriously in some of the major Swedish banks. It undermines confidence in the banking system as a whole and undermines the possibility of financing important societal efforts against organised crime. We protect well-being and security, not least in times of strongly increasing crime in our society, and it is important that the tax base is not eroded. Tax is to be paid in accordance with the rules in force, and we take money laundering and tax evasion seriously. Regarding tax evasion and tax crime, the Swedish Democrats have budgeted for increased funding to the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Enforcement Authority, the Swedish Economic Crime Authority and not least the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority for increased tax controls and increased opportunities to combat this type of crime. Money laundering is often the final part of a criminal activity, i.e. that money earned illegally in a basically criminal activity should be made to look legally earned. Efforts are needed here to combat crime, both nationally and internationally. The Swedish Democrats have taken a leading position in Swedish politics – and international cooperation. The Swedish Democrats are sometimes accused of not wanting, but cross-border crime needs to be combated through cross-border cooperation between sovereign states.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-31	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Left Party for an important debate. Let me begin by stating that the fight against tax evasion and money laundering is not an ideological issue. Tax planning is provocative. The tax system must work equally for everyone. Tax fraud, tax evasion and money laundering reduce our country's ability to generate revenue – income that is needed for our common well-being. The tax code is based on my being sure that others do the same as I do when I pay taxes. Slowly this is eroded if some do in a different way by not paying the tax they are supposed to pay. Mr President, I would like to It's supposed to be easy to do the right thing. When we talk about tax evasion, the target should be those who abuse the system. While we must be offensive, we cannot weaken the competitiveness of companies and increase the regulatory burden. For a small, export-dependent country like Sweden, international and global standards are extremely important. In the end, tax legislation covers risk dampening the growth of companies and, in itself, leading to tax errors. And the more complex a tax system is, the greater the grey areas that allow tax evasion. The Center Party believes that we must always have the conditions for companies in mind when legislating. Sometimes, in our eagerness to combat tax evasion, we tend to describe the entrepreneur and entrepreneur as a threat, when in fact it is an extremely small group that is not doing the right thing. Mr President, I would like to In a globalised world with global companies, we will strive for international solutions against tax evasion and money laundering. Measures to prevent, detect and prosecute are needed at national, EU and international level. But let us be clear that it is the international work that is absolutely crucial – especially against money laundering, which in its worst form legalises some of the biggest black economies: trafficking in women and children for prostitution, drug trafficking and arms trafficking. For this activity an indescribable amount of money passes through our systems and is integrated into the legal economy. This can probably only be addressed through international cooperation and through increased supervision and cooperation between authorities. The Center Party believes that our focus in this House should not be to act as a court. We will focus on closing gaps with general legislation, information exchange agreements and the introduction of international regulations in Swedish legislation. I note that the aggressive work of tax authorities in exchanging tax data has accelerated over a number of years.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-39	Mr President, I would like to I think it sounds good from the S- and MP government. The only problem is that when it comes to international or European level, it has been shown that you are blocking proposals against tax evasion within the EU, not least with regard to public country-by-country reporting, which would have been much needed in the fight against tax evasion. That said, every bank leak revealed shows how huge amounts of black money are laundered white through, among other things, letterbox companies without visible activities and money flows to tax havens. Although the banks have clear rules for what a bank in Sweden must do to counteract money laundering, which Per Bolund was involved in, this happens repeatedly. The conclusion is often flaws in the banks' money laundering management and shortcomings in procedures and control. At the end of the day, the responsibility lies with the banks' management and board of directors, which must ensure compliance with the rules. But for every bank scandal noted, the starting point has been that banks were naive or exploited – that they were victims of money laundering. As long as such a picture is maintained, one will rarely call anyone to account in the banking sector. When it comes to bank dividend parties, we do not see any control problems. There are the boards up with the rooster five in the morning. Now in times of crisis it is of course even more distasteful with large dividends, but if you look over the years it is not difficult to establish the pay-out record after the pay-out record. Four large banks make huge profits and spend 50 billion one year and 60 billion the next, and so it goes on. But it is not the banks that are making the profits. It is everyone who must have a bank to live in today's economy. With such large profits and dividends, the penalties and penalties of between 1 and 4 billion previously imposed are not directly felt or dissuasive. We can nevertheless see that the banks are not ordinary companies. They are strongly supported by the State and receive subsidies and guarantees. Competition is weak and lending is concentrated in a few commercial banks that dominate the sector. I would say that we have seen enough of this greed of the banks, which seems to continue. Here the government needs to tighten up its responsibilities considerably to ensure that the problems of money laundering do not recur.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-46	Mr President, I would like to For me as a Christian Democrat, the idea of stewardship is a central principle. It is a principle that teaches that assets should be processed and used responsibly. This must permeate both the rules of the economy and the supervisory authorities, but of course also the individual actors. Banks depend on public confidence. When they mismanage that trust, it can have major consequences for the banks themselves and for the public. Of course, the largest, systemically important banks have an even greater responsibility because unwise behaviour on their part can entail direct social costs in terms of lower growth and higher unemployment. The money laundering scandal at Swedbank last spring posed great risks because it created a crisis of confidence for the entire Swedish banking system. In order to quickly restore confidence, active policy response was needed. But it took the government a while. The Minister for Finance expressed himself that he was upset about what had happened, but that is not enough when you have government power. That is why we, together with the Left Party, acted as Christian Democrats to bring about change. The result was that a united Finance Committee announced to the government that it should review Finansinspektionen's resources, personnel policy and mandate to combat money laundering. Change is needed. The IMF has pointed out that the Financial Supervisory Authority does not have sufficient resources to adequately manage supervision. The media review last spring also showed high staff turnover in the money laundering department. Six out of seven experts left the department over a year or so. In addition, Finansinspektionen's mandate to take over certain control functions of a bank applies in principle only when there is a risk of a resolution procedure and not when it comes to crisis of confidence such as the one in Swedbank. It is clear that all these three aspects – resource issues, human resources policy and the Authority's mandate – need proper scrutiny. It is therefore a good thing that the investigation is in place and will soon report its findings. The government will then have another chance to act. Now the government must be much faster and make the necessary changes immediately.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-52	Mr President, I would like to Like a number of previous speakers, I would also like to thank the Left Party and Tony Haddou, who have initiated this important debate. It is extremely provocative to read about tax evasion and money laundering. It is provocative because we know that international terrorism requires funding, and it is done in this way, with the illegal management of financial resources. We know criminals need ways to hide their money. This is one of the main drivers of serious crime. Then we need to find that money and curb the incentives and funding opportunities available for this terrible activity. But it is also the case, Mr President, that a stable and fair financial system is crucial for the growth and prosperity of a country. It is clear that it is completely unreasonable and unacceptable for some people, often with little resources, to work hard, to work hard and to pay their taxes as they should while others, criminals or people who have enough resources to plan in a very advanced way, are getting away with paying taxes but are still taking advantage of the welfare and security that we are trying to build in our country. This is totally unacceptable. The social contract must be protected in such a way that all people are involved in paying taxes, on a fair basis in a stable financial system, and then also benefit from welfare. Mr President, I would like to To overcome this, enhanced cooperation is needed both internationally and within the European Union. Sweden should and needs to join the Banking Union. We in the Liberals have also voted in favour of country-by-country reporting in the European Parliament, which has been up here in the past. I share the frustration of Tony Haddous and the Left Party that not all parties from Sweden are doing this. It would also be good if more parties were to join the Banking Union and fully integrate cooperation on these issues into the European Union. It is clear that this is one of the strongest tools we have to overcome this type of extremely serious crime. Then, of course, we also need to strengthen the judiciary – the whole chain of justice at all levels – to get to these villains. Finally, Mr President, I hope that we can move away from this debate and not only agree on the problem, but also try to find solutions, such as banking union and country-by-country reporting.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-58	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the other speakers in this debate. I welcome the consensus and consensus that prevails in combating money laundering and terrorist financing. It is a unity that we shall safeguard, and we shall work together to achieve the high goals we have. Both Tony Haddou and Hampus Hagman criticised the government for being slow and for not doing enough. I really want to say that this is not true. It's almost easiest to prove by numbers. Since I took office as Minister of Finance, we have increased resources to the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority significantly, by over 60%. This has led to more than tripled the number of people who work only in money laundering. A large number of employees at Finansinspektionen work with money laundering in different ways, but the number that only targets money laundering has more than tripled. When we talk about sanctions and the opportunities to ensure that banks comply with the rules, there has been a dramatic change. In 2015, Nordea received a sanction for money laundering with the old regulations, with a maximum amount of SEK 50 million. That is about what a bank spends on postage per year. Now, in 2020, Finansinspektionen was able to impose a sanction of SEK 1 billion on S-E-Banken and SEK 4 billion to Swedbank because it has not been good enough to comply with the money laundering regulations. These are completely different dimensions, and you can rely on the banks to listen to those signals. Niklas Wykman raised the issue of gang crime and the powers of law enforcement authorities. Here, too, there have been major changes, and I would like to renumber. In 2015, 200 people were prosecuted for money laundering in Sweden. By 2018, that figure had increased to 1,000 people. This is a high figure compared to other countries. The number of employees at the Financial Police has also increased by 50 per cent since 2017. But even if we have a modern money laundering law, there are still things to improve. The ability to make money is the main driving force behind crime and organised crime. It is therefore important to be able to take criminal profits from criminals. It is also a central part of the work of the government. We have set up an investigation to further improve the chances of taking criminal profits from criminals. Crime should simply not be able to pay off. We know that we have great tasks to do, but we also know that we have come a long way. An example of this is the review of Sweden by FATF, Financial Action Task Force, which was presented in 2017. There it was clearly said that Sweden has made great efforts and that we have a well-functioning work against money laundering that also stands out well in an international comparison. We'll take that to heart. We shouldn't be happy. We're not going to settle down. But we are going to accept that we have done a lot that is good, and we are going to continue the work. Mr President, I would like to Capital moves mainly freely across national borders. Journalism follows the illegal flows of capital and highlights tax evasion and money laundering, but we must also continue to work internationally. There, well-functioning international cooperation is important. The government is a driving force in the international context. The government won't tire out.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-67	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Per Bolund! It is good that Per Bolund is acting, thanks very much to the committee initiative of the Left Party and the Christian Democrats in the Finance Committee last year. One problem we see with today's fines and charges is that they are not dissuasive because the banks have so much money. If they can afford tens of billions in dividends, they can pay 1 billion or 4 billion when they are convicted. The punishment is simply not felt. And although the banks are being penalised financially, this time and again. Per Bolund cannot be satisfied here. My question is: is the Government prepared to investigate a system that is sharper, so that sanctions are felt by the banks?
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-70	Mr President, I would like to I do not share Tony Haddous's view that the banks do not care or are affected by the sanctions that are now being imposed. The fines are a hugely heavy penalty, and they are stinging in the banks' performance. But it is not the only penalty, it is of course a very heavy burden on a bank. Financial activity requires credibility and trust. This could be seen not least when it comes to the development of Swedbank and Swedbank's stock exchange price when the CEO and the Chairman of the Board both resigned because of the scandal. To think that the banks do not think this is something to worry about, I think, is to misjudge the banks. We can see how the banks have actually built up their business in order to comply with the regulations. They have recruited a lot of people from both the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Supervisory Authority. This is welcome, and we also want them to build up their work. Much is happening now even on the private side.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-72	Mr President, I would like to Per Bolund acts n u because of the committee initiative taken by the Left Party and the Christian Democrats. Of course it should feel for the banks. After the last bank leak, a pool of international expertise led to the need for severe sanctions that are more dissuasive than they are today. Although Per Bolund says that they sting at the banks, the sanctions are not sufficiently dissuasive. The Government cannot be satisfied with scandal after scandal in its area. Maybe in a few months we'll be standing here again discussing another leak. The government cannot think that he has done enough here.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-75	Mr President, I would like to It's important to remember that the revelations made in the media—they're welcome, because there's a need for scrutiny—are retrospective. They look at possible crimes and offences committed perhaps 10 or up to 15 years back. At the time, it was a different set of rules, and we can all say that that set of rules was far from sufficient. Now we have tightened the regulatory framework on a number of points. We have increased resources for our authorities. We have improved coordination through a coordination function of the Financial Police, which is just making sure that everyone works together. We have hired more people working on these issues, and we will continue to strengthen work against money laundering. Let us now see the impact of these resources and measures before we condemn the system. For us, it is important to point out that we will never tire out. We will always continue. Only between May 2019 and May 2020 did we put five new proposals on Parliament's table to further strengthen the work against money laundering.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-78	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my speech, we see that the high staff turnover at Finansinspektionen is a major problem. The disappearance of six out of seven experts in one year from the anti-money laundering department is, of course, a major setback. The fact that staff turnover in general has varied between 14 and 21 per cent in recent years is also a major problem. It is therefore a good thing that the government has provided resources, just as Per Bolund did here before. But I mean it won't be enough. It won't be enough. Nevertheless, I would like to ask Per Bolund if he feels confident that this addition will reduce staff turnover at Finansinspektionen.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-81	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hampus Hagman, for the question! Much of the reason that there has been great mobility on our authorities, such as the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, is that we have put so much pressure on the banks that they have been forced to recruit the best experts to cope with their internal work. You know that the cost is very high if you are not able to do your money laundering work. This in itself is not a negative development. On the other hand, we have a responsibility to ensure that the authorities receive the resources they need to recruit competent staff. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority has done the same. As I said in my speech, the number of people working against money laundering has more than tripled. There are now over 20 people, and there are also all those who work with these issues in other areas of work. This is an area where we can never settle down and be content. We must constantly have a close dialogue with the authorities, hear their needs and also be responsive. This has also been shown by the government in the budget after budget, where we have made more money. As I said, there has been a 60% increase in Finansinspektionen's resources since I took office.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-84	Mr President, I would like to I think that d assa supplements have been good and welcome. But I may not really believe in the explanation given by the Government. You can see that the numbers vary over time. If I have the right information, they were at the highest in 2016. Then they have gone down slightly, but staff turnover is still too high. This can certainly be discussed back and forth. In any case, it is extremely important to keep a job at the agency over time. Therefore, in addition to the government's reinforcement, the Christian Democrats have set aside an additional 20 million, and we also believe that quarantine rules are needed for the staff at the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. My second question to Per Bolund is therefore: how does the government view this? Are we prepared to introduce quarantine rules to stop banks recruiting experts in this way?
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-86	Mr President, I would like to It is very clear that Finansinspektionen has vigorously tightened up its anti-money laundering work in recent years. All those who have followed Finansinspektionen's work in condemning sanctions against the banks can say that they have done exemplary work. I do not think that any bank that has received a fine of 4 billion or 1 billion would have accepted it if there had not been well-founded arguments and it knew what it was doing on the part of the authority. Of course, they would have appealed and said that it is not true, but none of the banks have done so. This shows that solid work is behind it. When it comes to avoiding conflict situations, there is active work on all our authorities. It is a joint work of authority and a framework that we set up. It is extremely important that this work is done in the best possible way. There I have nothing to say about the Financial Supervisory Authority, but you follow the rules that we have set up. But it is also important that we do not lock up our officials and prevent them from seeking a new career after they have worked in an authority. Then we will not be able to recruit those we need.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-88	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to combating money laundering and tax evasion, it is important, as with other crimes, that society constantly works to catch up, access, prosecute and prevent. In this area too, criminals are looking to develop and refine their methods. In recent years, the government has intensified its efforts to this end. Five new proposals have been put forward in this area, as we have heard. The funding for the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, the Swedish Police and the Swedish Financial Police has been increased. A new money laundering law has been introduced. In addition, the powers, requirements and funding of a number of authorities have been increased in order to increase society's capacity to combat these crimes. All that is good, and there is broad agreement on this. Efforts are also being made at EU level. We know that the free movement of capital, as well as cross-border crime, requires cooperation and coordination at European level. The implementation of the EU's Fifth Money Laundering Directive, with further tightening of Member States' rules, is an example of this work. There is now also a debate on improving and coordinating supervision. Proposals in this area are expected in the near future. But although much has been done, we must do more. An important effort is to be able to get an overview and holistic view and be able to follow the money and interact between financial market actors and authorities. Here I look forward to an investigation that will review the money laundering acquis, where information sharing, among other things, is a factor. Finally, Mr President, tax evasion and money laundering are serious crime, and society should always be stronger than crime.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-93	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your speech. In order to tackle money laundering and tax evasion, the Left Party believes that we need to work proactively, in this case before the money even reaches the banking business. Audit firms, tax lawyers and consultants make a lot of money helping with the services – advice and direct arrangements that can lead to money laundering and tax evasion. There is, of course, a need for strong action here. My question to the Social Democrats is: what measures are you prepared to take before the money even reaches the banks?
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-96	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. First of all, I would like to say that I appreciate that there is broad agreement on combating this. I think it is a very strong force in politics's ability to combat these things. And it's important that we hold on to both-and-think. These are more severe penalties, coordination and prevention. It's about us having all the parts. Much has been done in terms of efforts. There is always a discussion: could this have happened if the current regulatory framework had been in place? After all, we have made a series of efforts, as the Minister for the Financial Market has described. Would we have avoided this if they had been there? That's a question you can ask yourself. We simply have to hunt down. We have to do more all the time. Like I said, there's gonna be an investigation. I look forward to hearing what it says, particularly in terms of coordination. I understand that there's a running point.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-99	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it sounds like the Social Democrats want to intensify their work and act vigorously against money laundering and tax evasion. More stringent measures are needed here, not least with regard to reporting obligations, for example. It is about forcing those who help with tax evasion and money laundering to report. When we last had such a proposal on Parliament's table, the Social Democrats backed up when business organisations were on. Do you think it is to act forcefully and to step up work against money laundering and tax evasion?
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-101	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again for the question. One can say that the general approach is that we should try to find the proposals that work best. In the individual case, the vote we are talking about on reporting, there was a discussion about finding the right legal basis. It should also be said that tax authorities in Europe have access to this information and that they have the opportunity to share it with each other. It is they who are responsible for detecting tax evasion and other crime – it is therefore an important report. I believe that it should also be seen that it is a national job, a European job and a global job. The OECD has pointed out, among other things, that we must try to find the efforts that make the whole world at least on some standard. It is an important step to bring more countries into coordination.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-104	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to welcome the message of the Left Party: that more stringent penalties have a deterrent effect on crime.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-105	It is an insight that I hope the Left Party will also take with it in other contexts. When you listen to Per Bolund and representatives of the government base, you can't help but be caught by the feeling that they are very satisfied. They consider the measures they implement to be good. Above all, they are implementing a great many measures. But when you look out at society, you're filled with another feeling. It's a lot, not to say a lot, in society that doesn't work well. I would like to call on the government and the representatives of the government to consider how the two images are connected – the self-image of how they do very well and the reality picture of Sweden having very big problems. Could it be that they are doing the wrong things or that they are inadequate in what they are doing? More and more people would agree with the picture that the measures are wrong and inadequate. When it comes to managing banks and the financial system, it is a clear signal from politics and from people around our country that banks and those in charge there must have a high moral standard in their business. This applies both to the activities they have built up and to the activities they have acquired. It is important that we jointly draw up laws and rules so that we have an effective financial system that supports those who work and start businesses but ensures that criminal elements cannot thrive in the business.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-110	Mr President, I would like to This debate draws attention to important problems. Different parties and different people probably have different philosophies about the direction in which society needs to go in order to overcome the problems. Some would certainly be happy to use the new tasks and bank leaks, as much as others, to argue that the EU should be given greater powers. Others would certainly like to justify a state takeover of the banking business with this. Instead, I believe that Sweden must continue to strengthen the judiciary and raise its ambitions within the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Economic Crime Authority, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and the Swedish Enforcement Authority, for which the Swedish Democrats are budgeting. I also believe that Sweden must continue to work internationally for BEPS within the framework of the OECD and that there must be strong cooperation within Europe on law enforcement. This can be done without further transfer of power to Brussels. All European countries – I believe that it applies to all countries in the world except possibly individual rogue states – have an interest in tackling these problems. That is precisely why this debate is important. It is important to keep the issue alive and that – for reasons of unusuality I will agree with what Minister Per Bolund said earlier in the debate – always continue and never tire out.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-113	Mr President, I would like to In this debate, I would like to highlight certain fundamental fundamentals of international law, some fundamental principles, such as the fact that each state has the right, as a starting point, to define its own tax system as it wishes. Taxation law is a national matter. We have to remember that. It is not an EU issue. I do not think anyone in here is particularly interested in the EU or any other individual country being able to decide on how to tax our companies in Sweden. Instead, cooperation between states and a willingness to cooperate is needed in order to coordinate tax rules so that the possibility of exploiting regulatory gaps is reduced to a minimum and that Member States' tax systems do not oppose each other, something that can happen today. In this respect, the OECD countries' BEPS projects against tax bases have been successful so far. Now the results agreed by the cooperating States through information exchange agreements will also be implemented in national law. There has been some criticism of this, for example that it is easy to get around the agreed rules, but then it is also up to the other countries to impose sanctions and pressure – which we have the right to do – against these so-called tax havens and, through implementation into Swedish law, to take countermeasures against these non-cooperative jurisdictions, as it is called in trade language. There is sometimes a tendency to want to impose additional legislation on existing ones. But if you commit tax crimes, there's punishment. Then you can discuss the Swedish scale of penalties, but it is another debate. If you break laws and regulations, you commit an illegal act. We cannot legislate in this House because someone is almost breaking the law. If, on the other hand, gaps in legislation leading to tax evasion, tax evasion, erosion of the tax base or illegal tax planning are detected, these gaps should of course be closed.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-118	Mr President, I would like to After all, the Center Party takes on a parliamentary position in Swedish politics in such a way that the Center Party essentially decides who is in charge: the current government or a better alternative. There are proposals for bank tax supported by the Center Party. This can be assumed to have a further impact on the structural change taking place where banks disappear from rural areas, but it can also have more serious consequences for the financial system. When Sweden participates and has banks, we obviously have an impact that is greater than if we do not have any banks. Last time the government threatened with a bank tax, Nordea moved out of Sweden. Resolution payments decreased and thus stability and resilience. I therefore wonder how the Center Party views bank tax and whether it increases or reduces the Swedish possibility of influencing crime in the financial system.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-121	Mr President, I would like to I believe that countering crimes in the financial banking system, as we have heard here earlier today, is primarily done by strengthening the work of the Financial Supervisory Authority and further supervision and cooperation between authorities, which may also mean that we need to review the exchange of information and confidentiality between authorities. As far as bank taxes are concerned, we'll have to come back. I'm leaving the question at the moment.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-123	Mr President, I would like to I am trying to gather myself together before the announcement that a party that decides who runs the country and who has recently presented a tax with very great consequences for the country cannot answer the question or even have an opinion in it. It's also unique. Last time a bank tax of this kind was proposed, it led to Nordea leaving the country, which led to a reduction in resolution payments. The question is what happens if you introduce a new tax like this and if the Center Party thinks it is better that we have a financial sector here in Sweden that we supervise with our authorities and where we participate internationally, or if we crowd out and displace it. There are always risks in the financial system, but moving out of the country so that we ourselves cannot be involved in influencing poses a very high risk.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-126	Mr President, I would like to I share Mr Wykman's concern about this, and my message remains that the fight against financial crime is being done with the cooperation between the authorities that exist today. I understand both risks and possible requirements with a bank tax. If we believe that there is a need to introduce it, we must include it in the future discussion and planning.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-128	Mr President, I would like to When Parliament debates this issue, we hear the most magnificent rhetoric and really sharp formulations. We must do something about tax evasion and money laundering. It is, of course, atmospheric; the government wants to show that it is acting. But it is not always as concrete. That is why the Left Party and the Christian Democrats took a joint committee initiative last year to persuade the government to act after the scandals surrounding Swedbank. In addition to previous anti-money laundering proposals, the Left Party is calling for more policy measures to take a holistic approach to the banking market. Today, the financial sector is dominated by a few commercial banks. We want the government to set up an investigation that looks at the lack of bank competition and how it can be broken. The aim is to stimulate more local banks that are there for the local community. State bank ownership should also be increased and adapted to the needs of ordinary people, where money laundering and tax evasion are not at risk because the bank does so and has it as part of its business. Furthermore, we want the government to investigate a system that forces banks to keep a certain minimum level in relation to their turnover to governance and control in order to manage possible money laundering risks. One problem with today's fines and charges, which I mentioned earlier, is that they are not sufficiently dissuasive. The supervisory fees must also be linked to the level of risk banks take. The fees should also be linked to whether the bank has been found to have made mistakes and increased as errors are detected. We also want the government to review the possibility of introducing a banking-sharing law in order to separate commercial banks' speculation from household and corporate loans and savings. In this way, we can also reduce the risks and commitments of taxpayers. The activities of the banks are not separated today, which means that disruptions in any of the activities will knock out the others.
i-KPeeuMUDMEMkeLqR8YFca3	Mr President, I would like to Tony Haddou and the Left Party want the national banks?
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-133	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. I just said that it would be reasonable for us to set up an investigation and look at how the state gains increased ownership of the banks.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-134	Mr President, I would like to It is very difficult to discuss a question with someone who cannot answer the question whether there is a hippopotamus in the room or not. So the Left Party and Tony Haddou want to roll out a major nationalization programme for Swedish banks. It is easy to imagine what it would do for the opportunity to run companies in Sweden. It is easy to imagine what it would do for the possibility of acquiring a home and ultimately having a job and a functioning economy. Per Bolund and the Green Party have recently opened up to form a government with the Left Party, if I have understood correctly. My question to Tony Haddou is therefore: is the nationalisation of financial markets and banks a demand that the Left Party will in such a case pursue in such a government? Does Tony Haddou see that such a requirement would make it easier for Sweden to contribute internationally to stopping crime in the financial system?
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-137	Mr President, I would like to It is very difficult to answer that question when we have not been invited by the government to discuss it. I therefore think that Niklas Wykman should put the question to the government. One problem we are seeing today is that the financial sector is dominated by a few banks. That is a problem, and we therefore want an investigation to be set up to review bank competition. It is lacking and needs to be investigated. On the issue of nationalising banks, I understand that Niklas Wykman is very afraid when it comes to nationalising. But on the other hand, Niklas Wykman is also very afraid when we own things jointly under democratic direction. I think Niklas Wykman is very afraid of that. What privatisation in Sweden has worked? Is that Apoteket? Is it the railways? What privatisation in Sweden has worked?
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-140	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats have pushed the government in front of them on the issue of combating money laundering. An important part of this work is to strengthen Finansinspektionen. It was good that the government provided resources when the money laundering scandal took place. It is also good that other permanent reinforcements have been made. However, the level of ambition in anti-money laundering work must in fact be further enhanced. That is why we Christian Democrats have allocated SEK 20 million more than the government to the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. The investigation set up after our and the Left Party's initiative last spring will soon present its results. However, we have already said that we believe that the quarantine rules for Finansinspektionen's staff need to be reviewed and that the agency needs to be able to offer conditions and a working environment that ensures good recruitments and that employees work there longer. We also see that the exchange of information needs to be strengthened. It is not just a question of authorities exchanging information with each other and banks reporting to the authorities. There is also a need to improve the flow of information from the authorities to banks, as banks sometimes send in information on which they do not receive feedback. The work against money laundering cannot be carried out for any reason. This must be done continuously and in international collaboration. That is why it is important that we continue to put the issue on the agenda, continue to debate it and consistently allocate resources and provide tools to the authorities responsible for prevention and supervision. The problems that have been must not be repeated. We cannot afford more crisis of confidence in the Swedish banking system.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-144	Mr President, I would like to I thank everyone who has taken part in an exciting and very important debate. I am very pleased that we have this debate and that there is agreement. It is extremely important to overcome these problems, and it is extremely important to remove the funding of international terrorism and international crime. It is extremely important to ensure that all people contribute legally and fairly to welfare. It is also extremely important that we have a stable financial system to bring about both growth and prosperity. Mr President, I would like to Several of the changes and investments made in the budget negotiated by the government together with the Center Party and the Liberals are good. I note that it is positive that it is not only the Liberals who are pushing for this, but that the other cooperation parties too are actually taking on board the things we are doing in the budget and defending them here in the pulpit. Nevertheless, I find it sad that more parties do not join in calling on the European Parliament for country-by-country reporting. It is also sad that the Liberals continue to push in principle alone for Sweden to cooperate fully on these issues by, for example, joining the Banking Union. There, for example, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats are perhaps by far the most tough opponents. Then it is very strange that they are standing in this speaker's seat and saying that they want to overcome these problems.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-147	Mr President, I would like to I thank all the Members who have taken part in the debate. These are extremely important issues, and I welcome the consensus that exists in this House. An illustration of the importance of these issues comes from the OECD, which estimated the scope of international tax planning and concluded that it is about USD 100 - 240 billion per year. This represents up to 10% of global tax revenues from corporate taxation. With regard to money laundering, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime estimates that money laundering accounts for 2 to 5% of GDP globally, i.e. between USD 800 and 2 000 billion. This is money that could do wonders in Sweden and in the rest of the world to build well-being and make climate investments but which is now unfortunately not being used. It is therefore not surprising that we have worked hard and intensively to strengthen the regulatory framework. But we're far from done. There I am pleased to see that we will be able to work together and with support from the Swedish Parliament.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-154	Mr President, I would like to Alexandra Anstrell has asked me if I have taken any steps to ensure which companies must be contracted in case of increased preparedness. She has also asked me how much of the suppliers to the Swedish Armed Forces have contracts to deliver in case of increased preparedness, whether I believe that the defence has sufficient good and secure agreements to secure the Swedish Armed Forces' capabilities for materials, supplies and services in case of increased preparedness and whether I intend to take any steps to increase security of supply to the Swedish Armed Forces in case of increased preparedness. Finally, she has asked whether I have ensured that the contracted suppliers have personnel placed in war under public service obligations. When the government took office in 2014, work began to rebuild the total defence after it had been down-priorityd since the early 2000s. Following the decision on the bill Defence Policy Focus – Sweden's Defence 2016 – 2020, the vote has taken a number of further decisions. In December 2015, the Government decided on a mission to the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Civil Protection Agency to submit proposals for a common basic approach for coherent planning for total defence. On 11 May 2017, the Government decided to give the Swedish Armed Forces and MSB a follow-up mission to continue to promote and develop coherent overall defence planning during the period up to 2020. In the regulatory letters to the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration in 2017 and 2018, the Government commissioned the development of a defence supply concept that includes, among other things, agreements and agreements with private actors. On 5 July 2018, the Government decided to set up an investigation into the role of industry in total defence and security of supply of defence equipment. In his final report, Enterprise's role in total defence, SOU 2019:51, the investigator proposed, among other things, how total defence-important companies in case of increased preparedness, and then ultimately in war, should be able to deliver goods and services according to different contractual arrangements with the state and other public actors, as well as proposals for measures to strengthen security of supply in defence equipment supply. The proposals are prepared within the Council. On 9 August 2018, the Government decided to set up an investigation tasked with carrying out a review of health care preparedness for and in the event of serious events in peacetime and increased preparedness. The mission shall be completed by 28 February 2022 at the latest. On 16 August 2018, the Government decided to set up an investigation to review responsibilities, management and coordination in civil defence. The investigation is of great importance for the continued work to develop the total defense. It shall report on 1 March 2021. On 2 July 2020, the Government decided to appoint the Swedish Defence Research Institute to analyse issues related to national security of supply. The assignment shall be presented on 16 November 2020. Strengthening and developing security of supply in case of increased preparedness is a responsibility for several policy areas. Last Wednesday, the government decided on a new defence policy bill, Totalförsvaret 2021 – 2025. In this bill, as in the budget proposal for 2021, the government has proposed long-term efforts to strengthen and further intensify the reconstruction of the total defence. The Government's focus is that Swedish security of supply will continue to develop and that it is important that life is increasingly involved in the work. For this reason, the government plans to set up an investigation into what a nationally coordinated supply readiness should include and how it should be organised and financed. As of autumn 2019, municipalities and regions have started work to develop their war organisation and place personnel at war in areas that have been identified as socially important activities, such as energy supply, food, transport and health care. As we step by step develop total defence, security of supply is also strengthened in Sweden.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-157	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Defence. The world is more uncertain and anxious than in a long time, and unpredictability is increasing. The importance of security of supply in the event of crisis and war is something that cannot be stressed enough. Security of supply in case of increased preparedness is central, and that is why I have asked the Minister a number of questions. The first question was whether he has taken any steps to ensure that we have companies that must be contracted in case of increased preparedness. Here I feel that the recurring response from the Minister is investigations, investigations and more investigations. Investigations are, of course, good in many things – it is important that we make informed decisions – but at some point you just have to go to decisions. The decisions should also be followed up so that you can see that they became what you had planned, and in order for decisions to be easily followed up they need to be quite clear. Nevertheless, I take the Minister's answer to this question as saying that the government has taken a lot of decisions, but I do not really know what has been achieved. The regulations to the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration in 2017 and 2018 have in any case been commissioned to develop a defence supply concept. That's great. It is then decided that a concept should be developed, and then a further investigation has been decided, namely the role of industry in total defence and security of supply of defence equipment. In fact, that investigation came up with the sharp proposal for a Business Council to be set up. This question is being prepared in the Government Office, but now it is still included in the Government's total defence bill – as well as that there should be a cross-sectoral Business Council as a complement. However, we do not really get an answer as to when and how, in addition to the fact that it is sometime before 2025. The answer to my question, then, is that we have not yet ensured which companies must be contracted with increased preparedness – but that we are investigating. Mr President, I would like to Our whole society, and also our defence, depends on goods and services that come from the business world. A large part of our socially important activities are carried out by private actors. It is about energy supply, food supply, transport and health care. It is essential that there are agreements with companies that ensure that the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to acquire equipment, supplies and services in case of increased preparedness is ensured. My second question to the Minister was: How much of the suppliers to the Swedish Armed Forces have contracts to be able to deliver in case of increased preparedness? Since the first response was some form of investigation, I understand that the second question is difficult to answer, and that is perhaps why I do not get a direct answer. I hope, however, that we will nevertheless see the momentum of decisions that actually lead to concrete delivery, so that we can get secure agreements in place for a secure preparedness even in cases of increased preparedness. However, the question is why we do not have it in place today.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-164	Mr President, I would like to When we took over this in October 2014, we took over a civil defence that was extremely slimmed down. The interest in this type of question in the government that represented us was, to say the least, limited. In addition, a defence policy had been pursued which was essentially a defence for international operations and not a defence of Sweden, which we received with the focus in May 2015. Civil defence was far more reduced than the military, so the recovery stretch there is considerably longer. 4.2 billion is what is now being invested in civil defence. I do not know if it is the case that the interpeller is trying to iron out the investigations, but unfortunately it is necessary to carry out these investigations in such a way that they are firmly grounded – so that it is not according to the principle Quick but wrong is a very bad principle to act on. Therefore, I think it is important to carry out this work in order to then be able to systematically build up civil defence – and of course include the business community. After all, it was no coincidence that we initiated the investigation that has now led to the proposal for a business council, which is also part of the proposal. Things must be done thoroughly and properly, and building civil and military capabilities on the defence side takes time. However, it is fast to collapse. Just take one such thing as the fact that we have a job dealing with security authorities, where we have now worked and by the end of 2020 we are going to make some accounts. These include the ability to exercise collaboration and management from a regular management position, a coherent process for planning and clear responsibilities, participation in total defence practice, how to handle critical information and the ability to work from an alternative or protected management location. So there is an enormous amount of government work here; I can imagine that a rapid overlay means that there are about fifty authorities. These include such things as the Swedish Food Administration and such as the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency, the County Administrative Board, the Swedish Coast Guard, the Swedish Migration Agency, the Swedish Medical Products Agency and all kinds of things in this context. What has been the very pervasive experience is that the market solutions have proved to be very poorly functioning – these just in time systems have not kept. The experience is therefore that market ideology has failed in relation to emergency preparedness issues, and that is something that must now be taken on board. I have nothing against building a more solid relationship with the business community – I have been for that from the moment I started doing this – but you have to do it on a solid basis. Business must also be involved in such a way that this works well. There, the question of preparedness storage may have been such a challenge that we have to face in the future. Then it is that it is the Swedish Armed Forces that have the task to work on these issues. When it comes to questions 2, 3 and 5, which are handled by the Swedish Armed Forces, I have full confidence in the way in which the agency tries to take a step further on these matters.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-169	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Defence, for your answer. I asked if the Minister felt that the defence had a good enough and secure agreement to secure the Armed Forces' capabilities for materials, supplies and services in case of increased preparedness, and I now got an answer to that. I did not get a written answer, but it was nice that I now got the answer that the Minister for Defence has full confidence in this. On the fourth question I asked, I can interpret it as having received an answer. The question was: Does the Minister intend to take any measures to increase security of supply to the Armed Forces in case of increased preparedness? I have to say that a great many investigations have been set up, so it is clear that measures have been taken. Nevertheless, I wonder, Mr President, whether the Minister is satisfied that, after so many years of government, the government has not been able to make any further progress in the autumn of 2020. I would like an answer to that. We're not so close that it would be fast but wrong. Finally, I asked the Minister whether the Minister had ensured that the contracted suppliers had personnel placed in war with a public service obligation. Today, there is no legal possibility of placing people at war in companies other than under public service obligations. Therefore, it is important to ensure that the companies with which the Swedish Armed Forces have agreements have the skills they need and can deliver even in case of increased preparedness. Here I received no real answer more than a reference to the fact that municipalities and regions have started a job. What about the requested contracted suppliers? I think we have other suppliers – or regions – that are not public. One can indeed wonder, Mr President, whether it can be so terrible that the Minister has not ensured that they exist. In the Minister's reply, he said that the security of supply in Sweden is strengthened as we step by step develop the total defence. I feel like it's a little out of step. How do the Minister and the Government view the introduction of a total defence ministry in order to be able to step up and synchronise all efforts? I want to go back to this with a business council, because I am quite interested in that. In December 2019, the report presented the role of Enterprise in total defence. There were suggestions for the government to investigate how to manage the provision of personnel in civil defence and a rather sharp proposal that a national council, the Swedish National Defence Industry Council, should be established within the Government Office. This was not really news, because already 2017 it was included in the Swedish Defence Committee's report. It was all the parties behind it. Now the government has further investigated the issue and, once again, it has come to the conclusion that a Business Council will be set up. We've got it in the government's total defense bill. But this is still not the time. My question to the Minister for Defence, Mr President, is therefore: when will we be able to see a business council in place?
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-179	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency has signed two agreements with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions regarding compensation for, among other things, the work of municipalities and regions with war placement of personnel. Sweden's municipalities and Regions must have started their work with war organisation and placement during 2020. We do not yet have any figures on how many municipalities and regions have actually begun work on war organisation and placement. We will take in that kind of data gradually, but it is naturally affected by the Corona situation – there may be some delay in this work. MSB has ongoing development work on how to involve business actors in total defence planning. An adjacent work is to develop criteria for which companies are to be able to deploy their personnel. A little rhetorical question was asked as to whether I am satisfied. We put forward a proposal for development work because we are not satisfied. Whether I am satisfied becomes a political, rhetorical and a little point-seeking question. The whole thing is that this was very far down when we took over. We are trying to build it up, and we are trying to do it on a solid basis. We are doing this because we are not satisfied. I do not know if we will be satisfied in 2025 either – probably not, because there is a lot we need to do to get a total defence concept where the civilian and the military can tact. That's what it looks like. There is therefore considerable work in progress on security of supply. We will also next week, to strengthen the total defense, extend the project that has been going on on on Gotland. This is a three-year project in which we will build a pilot project for a total defence organisation. Gotland has worked very hard on these issues throughout the broad field in a very meritorious way. This is an inspiration project for the rest of the country. We will take a decision to extend it for another year. I note that this work has also been delayed because of the Corona situation. It is also the case that the County Administrative Board and the Swedish Armed Forces in the development plan that has been developed for Gotland are working on the issue of collaboration between authorities, municipalities, regions and private actors. According to this plan, the Swedish Armed Forces' need for support in these areas in the event of war or increased preparedness must be established, and the County Administrative Board must have the task of providing ready-made support to the Swedish Armed Forces. It looks at procedures for gathering information and sharing information between authorities and stakeholders. So in the pilot project that we are implementing, there is also a link with private business which I think can be an important thing to have with us in developing this in the rest of the country. As regards the situation we have had with regard to the Corona and the pandemic, we have seen that private companies have received orders and have been taken up, for example, in relation to protective equipment and the like. These are experiences that can be taken on board in the further work to involve the business community in this. When can we see a business council? Yes, the bill has not yet been adopted by the Riksdag. It will be handled in the autumn, and the decision will come in December. Then we will have to start working on the implementation of concrete decisions.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-187	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. Like the Minister for Defence, I hope that this terrible pandemic, which we are still in, will still teach us things. Covid-19's progress in the world affects many of Sweden's companies in terms of access to equipment and personnel. Here we can clearly see that a formalised Business Council would have been an important interface between industry and the state, where we could proactively deal with issues of crisis preparedness and total defence, such as the effects of the Corona virus. It is also about being able to share information and problems in an ongoing crisis in order to quickly come up with solutions together. We could have done it a little better there, and that is why I am interested in how quickly we can get a business council in place. I wonder if I should interpret the Secretary of Defense as saying that if the bill goes through, we can see this next year. Just in time, as the Minister was on, poses a certain problem from a stock-holding perspective. But maybe that's also what you need – old stocks, which didn't really have much turnover, are not resource efficient for either climate or economy. This piece needs to be reviewed. It is clear that Sweden needs a safe supply in case of increased preparedness. I think that the business community really is in on this – my view when I have met them is that they really want to. I find it hard to see why it should take so much longer.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-192	Mr President, I would like to Experience has taught me that it is associated with some problems to be too specific and promise that something will happen in the next year. What I want to say is that once the bill is adopted, we will be working on this issue just like all the other issues, and we will see to it that this is implemented. Then you have to come back with the exact time. As far as the emergency stocks are concerned, it was phased out in the late 1990s and early 2000s. The lack of emergency teams became very clear in connection with the covid-19 pandemic. In comparison with Finland, we can also note that they had emergency stocks and in this way they were able to release materials in a different way. There have been problems with both drugs and protective equipment. Then we had a Europe that closed down. We couldn't get what we needed. It even started its own production of certain things in Sweden. We will have to take the accumulated experience and look at what the future emergency stocks and situation should look like here and how it should be arranged. Just as Alexandra Anstrell says, it is not certain that it will happen in the same way as it did then. Perhaps it should be done with other types of agreements and other types of methods. It's too early to tell. But what we can nevertheless see with the greatest clarity is that in time, this market orientation, has not been achieved. There must be something else: a more robust system in which society takes responsibility, a strong society in a completely different way than with the organisation that we have now built. We need to look at the whole field. Thank you very much for this debate. We will come back to the matter.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-198	Mr President, I would like to Boriana Åberg has asked me whether I intend to initiate a review of the so-called smuggling law, which regulates the powers of the Customs Agency, and if so, when that work will start. Boriana Åberg has also asked me what measures I am prepared to take to ensure that the Customs Administration is not prevented from carrying out its law enforcement mission. The customs office's powers with regard to controls on goods are partly in the customs warehouse and partly in the so-called internal border law. In addition to the control activities carried out by the Finnish Customs in accordance with those provisions, the Finnish Customs also has the authority to carry out law enforcement activities concerning, among other things, customs offences and all types of smuggling offences, such as drug and arms smuggling. As of 1 November, the Finnish Customs will also be able to investigate offences involving possession or use of narcotics, possession of doping substances and possession of dangerous goods. The customs services and customs officials' powers in law enforcement are essentially the same as the police authorities and police officers have in their law enforcement activities. The Customs Agency can therefore initiate preliminary investigations into, for example, smuggling offences and has access to various coercive measures. Customs officials have the authority, in accordance with the Smuggling Act, to arrest those suspected of smuggling, seize property, search a house and perform body search and inspection. These measures may also be taken by the Finnish Customs if it is an investigation led by a prosecutor. Depending on the severity of the crime, the Customs Agency can also use secret coercive measures such as secret interception. Decisions on this type of coercive measures are taken, as is the case with the Police Authority, by a prosecutor. The government has recently made proposals that will further sharpen the Swedish Customs' ability in law enforcement activities. For example, in a bill submitted to the Riksdag in August, the Government has proposed increased penalties for arms smuggling. The amendment, which is proposed to enter into force on 1 December this year, means that the Customs Agency will be able to use more coercive measures in these cases. The Government has also submitted a proposal to the Swedish Law Council for increased possibilities for the Swedish Customs Agency to put postal barriers in the mail and courier flows. The proposal extends such barriers from having previously only covered drugs to firearms, explosives and ammunition. The Customs Agency has also received large increases in appropriations in recent years, both durable funds to strengthen its presence at the border and a one-off reinforcement for the purchase of technical equipment and increased controls in the postal flow. Today, the Customs Agency has extensive powers to carry out its law enforcement mission, and the Government has recently also ensured that the Customs Agency has increased its powers. In view of this, I see a need to take a concerted approach to the legislation governing the Customs Authority's powers so that they become more predictable and easy to apply. I will also continue to review the need for new measures in the event of such a situation.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-202	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. My questions were based on a concrete case. This is a case that concerns me very much because the Ombudsman for Justice is putting resources into investigating cooperation between the police and the Customs Agency, but above all because the Customs Administration's own Legal Department has taken one, in my opinion, very strange approach. I therefore hoped that the Minister's reply would be concrete and not a general statement of the applicable law and descriptions of the powers of the Customs Service or a summary of the improvements to the legislation initiated by the Government. All this is completely unrelated to my specific question. I therefore feel compelled to repeat my question. What I want answers to is: How can customs continue to assist the police, even though the Legal Department's assessment is that the Customs Authority may not do so when the police have started a preliminary investigation? I'm going to do a quick recapitulation of what's happened. I have taken the information from the Swedish Customs' reply to the Ombudsman for Justice, and that is the official's story. During Operation Rimfrost, the Customs staff together with the police carried out a joint operation against one person. The role of the Customs Department was to assist the police with staff and dog equestrians because the police did not have enough officials or drug search dogs. The police stopped the person's car when the person drove up to his home. Suspicion of drug abuse, as well as drug crime, use and possession arose. The police investigators decided on a search warrant in the car and the dwelling. Next to the dwelling was another car belonging to the person. The head of the Customs Department's group made decisions on the excise control of the car, as it was suspected that the person was transporting and storing excise goods. In the car, a bag of white powder was found suspected of being narcotics. The bag was handed over to the police, who then decided on a search warrant in the car. The customs officer assisted the police in the search. The customs officer assisted the police in the search of the dwelling. Following instructions from the Chief of the Police Team, the Customs Department's narcotics search dog searched the residence. The customs officer found cash hidden in the attic that was handed over to the police. Customs staff did not participate in any additional checks related to this case. What has happened is that a customs officer and a drug search dog have assisted the police in a check on housing and by car. For those who are not lawyers, but are based solely on their common sense, general judgment and general perception of what is right and wrong, it does not appear that the Customs Service or the police have done anything wrong. On the contrary, it has worked together to solve a task, just as it is stated in the Police Act Section 6.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-208	Mr President, I would like to If Boriana Åberg has views on what the Ombudsman for Justice does and does not do, as it sounded at the beginning of the speech, it is an authority during the Riksdag and not questions that should be addressed to me. As regards the possibilities for the Swedish Customs Agency to carry out work on behalf of the Swedish Police Authority, the specific situation that Boriana Åberg refers to has led the Swedish Customs Agency to analyse the legal conditions and also the consequences of their assessment of the current state of the law. It is also based on what a change in legislation could have for the Customs Agency. It is, of course, important for me to listen to the Authority's assessment of the situation before I take a decision on how we should proceed on this issue. I am therefore interested in hearing Customs' analysis. Then, of course, the consequences of possible changes in legislation must be carefully assessed. This could have consequences for the Swedish Customs' ability to stop the smuggling of weapons and work to stop the smuggling of arms and drugs, which are also important activities. Of course, I need to look at various aspects of a possible legislative change – but first listen to the Swedish Customs' analysis.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-212	Mr President, I would like to It is positive that the Customs Agency is analysing the situation because, as it is now, we cannot have it. You can imagine a situation where the police need help searching a car with a narcotics dog – yes, you can line up a lot of situations where collaboration is effectively hindered by the legal department's regulations. On several occasions, members of the government have spoken warmly for Operation Rimfrost, for the successful collaboration between the various authorities, for all the seizures that have been made and for all the criminals who have been prosecuted. There is no doubt whatsoever that cooperation between the police, the Customs Agency, the Migration Agency and several authorities is the right way to go if we are to overcome the widespread crime that plagues our country. Therefore, it is counterproductive and directly devastating when their own authorities make interpretations that run counter to the legislator's intentions. The example of the Finnish Customs Legal Service is not the only one; I have another example of the Swedish Tax Agency's assessment, but I will take it at another time. My point is that the Customs Administration's analysis must be done urgently if it turns out that the legislation is not sufficient. In their reply to the Ombudsman for Justice, the Swedish Customs Agency writes that they interpret the 6th section of the Police Act, which says that the authorities should assist the police with help, as a kind of general recommendation. I can't believe it is. In the serious situation that our country is in, the law enforcement authorities really need to cooperate. Customs is a key player in the matter. We have major problems with the influx of drugs across our borders. All these gang shootings and murders are about marking territory for drug sales, and a lot of kids get involved as drug couriers. We must put an end to this as quickly as possible. The price of drug trafficking is high for society, both in terms of human suffering and money. It's all about the medical costs of those shootings and all the ruined lives. There is a great public interest in Customs being able to exercise its powers even in the border country between police and customs. When you take a criminal, it's hard to decide who's going to start the preliminary investigation. Looking at the law and getting in touch with the Legal Department doesn't really work. It is a matter of a momentary action. The authorities should never hesitate about what applies.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-218	Mr President, I would like to It is really important that the authorities should not hesitate about what applies. That is why I am also saying that we are prepared to review the Customs Agency's overall legislation in order to have a simple and transparent regulatory framework – not least in view of the fact that the Government has strengthened the Customs Agency's ability to act in the field of law enforcement in a number of decisions, which means that the legislation may be less transparent than it would otherwise be. However, as I said, this is due to the fact that the government has been very active and has given the Finnish Customs a wide range of new instruments, in addition to the fact that we have provided the Finnish Customs with a large amount of resources to enable them to hire more customs officials and work harder at our borders to stop the introduction of drugs, weapons and other things. The Government has also today sent out a proposal for a referral that gives the Swedish Customs increased opportunities to detain, for example, people who are going to carry stolen goods out of the country. This supplemented with additional resources for the Swedish Customs Agency gives the work of course more muscle than it has had in the past. So the government has worked hard. I have also noticed that when we have made it clear that the authorities are to cooperate against various forms of crime, it has certainly produced results. For example, I commissioned a wide range of authorities to work together to stop the liquor buses, and this has in practice led us to no longer see the type of liquor buses that previously rolled through Sweden and that helped young people to get hold of unsafe alcohol. Yes, all alcohol is uncertain in some way, but this could be directly toxic. It is of course important that we ensure that there is clarity in the legislation for the Customs Agency. If Boriana Åberg has comments on the Swedish Customs Administration's Legal Department, it is possible to call the Swedish Customs Agency to the Tax Committee. I think they answer these questions better than I do.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-225	Mr President, I would like to I welcome any decision that strengthens the ability of the Customs Agency to carry out its law enforcement mission. As far as Customs' ability to stop cars carrying stolen goods out of the country is concerned, we Moderates have been pushing this issue for a long time and are pleased that the government has finally listened to us. As far as the Customs Agency's powers to carry out its duties are concerned, I would like to highlight another issue that needs to be resolved at government level, namely the question of the arming of the Customs Agency. The laws that regulate the function of the Finnish Customs have been written long ago and for a time when the Swedish Customs' primary task was to calculate different fees and ensure that the introduction and exit were done in a legal and correct manner. Now we have a completely different crime landscape, and it is a major concern for customs officials that they are dealing with gangs that are armed and that the Customs Service is not able to provide this kind of defence if necessary. There was an analysis of the need for arming of the Customs Agency, but it was done in 2015. Five years have passed now, and, as I said, the situation in the country with regard to crime has become very serious. Therefore, it is wrong to take the decision that the issue does not need to be reviewed based on a five-year-old analysis.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-230	Mr President, I would like to Boriana Åberg asks questions about the Swedish Customs' law enforcement activities and sees a need to strengthen the Swedish Customs Agency's possibilities. I am pleased that there is broad support in the Riksdag for the work carried out by the Government to strengthen the Swedish Customs Agency in providing them with both newer, sharper and increased resources so that they can hire the customs officers needed to carry out their activities. The fact that the government, as we have done several times, gives agencies the task of working together to address specific problems has proved to be an effective way of addressing them. It is a path that will of course continue. There, of course, we want to ensure that Customs has the resources and tools that they need, and we are prepared to review Customs' overall legislation so that it is simple and clear to Customs what they can and cannot do. I fully share Boriana Åberg's view that the law enforcement part of Customs is very important. I would also like to say that the other parts of Customs' duties are also important. It is about facilitating international trade and making it easy for Swedish companies to export and import into the country. In addition, they have an important collection activity, and these two parts of Customs' duties are a prerequisite for us to get the customs duties, duties and taxes needed to increase the resources for the law enforcement part, so it is important in Customs' work.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-233	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has asked me what concrete concerted action I am taking with regard to the censuses and coordination numbers to combat the fraud and crimes affecting benefit and welfare systems and what I have achieved so far in that work. Since this government took office, we have made a change of course to create order and order in the population records. It requires urgent work and the right conditions for the responsible authorities. Part of creating the right conditions is about clear signals to the population that everyone should be registered where it lives. It has therefore been particularly important to reintroduce the civil record crime that the moderate-led government abolished. In addition, the Government has implemented a number of other measures aimed at improving the quality of population records. The Swedish Tax Agency has received increased funding and more tools to detect, investigate and correct more errors in public records. The authority now has the possibility to de-register false identities from the population register and to make visits to check a person's residence. In addition, we have provided the Swedish Tax Agency with better conditions for an effective and effective exchange of information within the agency, including through the introduction of confidentiality-breaking data obligations between civil registration activities and law enforcement activities. The criminal investigation and benefit-paying authorities have been working together for several years to combat organised crime. As part of this work, special efforts are being made against welfare crime, and only last summer the government commissioned 12 government authorities to set up a pilot project to tackle misreporting associated with organised crime. The assignment is coordinated by the Swedish Tax Agency and must be reported no later than 1 October 2021. But our work doesn't stay there. The Ministry of Finance has also referred a memorandum proposing, among other things, an obligation for all authorities to inform the Swedish Tax Agency if it can be assumed that an information in the population register is incorrect or incomplete. The memo also makes proposals aimed at strengthening the coordination number system. In addition, the Government has set up an investigation to focus on measures that can further reduce the presence of incorrect data in the population register and review the entire coordination number system. The report shall be submitted by 1 April 2021 at the latest. Finally, I would also like to mention that the Government in the budget proposal for 2021 has proposed that the Swedish Tax Agency's funding be increased by SEK 43 million once in 2021 in order to strengthen and streamline public accounting activities. As of 2022, the grant is expected to increase by SEK 20 million on a permanent basis. The Swedish Tax Agency will, among other things, be able to strengthen its activities in counteracting incorrect population records.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-239	Mr President, I would like to The problems in Sweden are many and serious. Unfortunately, the feeling has crept on in many people that it may not even be worth discussing all the problems anymore because each day in their immediate vicinity or acquaintances or at least through the media is met by a Sweden that cannot be recognized and that few could have imagined if ten years ago they had been asked to describe what Sweden would look like in the future. It is gross and targeted organised crime against our welfare systems, people who, without a single honest hand, drain public finances of resources and take money that would have gone to the most vulnerable of society through, for example, the LSS to enrich themselves, cross-border crime that is not stopped by customs and that enters the country, people who use our financial systems to usurp money they are not entitled to, grossly organised crime that hides on false addresses, people who sell addresses to people who might not even be in Sweden, people who sell completely fake addresses and municipalities that pay out support that they should not actually pay out. It is simply the case that Swedish society has suffered a very serious pressure from criminal activities. Of course, correct registration and order and coordination numbers do not solve all the problems, but I hope that the Minister for Finance agrees with us Moderates when we say that order and order of records and order and order of coordination numbers are a basic condition and a cornerstone for dealing with and resolving all other problems. Mr President, I would like to Perhaps it is not a high tone that is needed in this debate, but rather a call for action and thoughtfulness. I share the great disappointment that many Swedes have expressed in recent weeks and days that the government is delivering a budget without concerted action for a complete national census. It would certainly have been a good time for that. Instead, perhaps 5 to 10 percent of what is needed is implemented. Many people were also very disappointed this week when the Social Democrats, together with the parties they run Sweden with, voted 'no' here in the Riksdag to the Moderates' proposal for a national census. It is difficult to understand why the government does not want to implement such a measure. The need is obvious. It is public finances that are drained on money by criminal activities, people who are being exploited ruthlessly by people who trade in census addresses and people who do not live in or are written in the right place. The IRS is talking about some 200 000 errors in the operation. One cannot help but wonder, and I would appreciate it if the Minister of Finance could answer the question: why is this not being addressed? Sweden has historically and over the years made censuses. It is part of the concept of caring for and caring for a country, and the need is urgent. But, Magdalena Andersson, why does the government not want to do this now?
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-245	Mr President, I would like to I think it is very good that there is a consensus here in Parliament about the need for us to have proper civil records and that the Moderates also regret the fact that they removed the classification of civil records during their time in power. It would be good to hear Niklas Wykman comment on that. The government has taken a wide range of measures to address the errors found in the population register but also to strengthen the coordination number system. We have, as recently as in the budget, also added additional resources to the Swedish Tax Agency so that you can work with a correct population register. We fully share that picture. Then there's a question. I am prepared to listen to arguments as to whether a census would be the most effective way of using social resources to address the problems of misreporting. However, I have not yet heard arguments that this is the best way to deal with the problems. Nevertheless, 98 per cent of the Swedish people are correctly registered, and the Swedish Tax Agency's assessment is that it is about 2 per cent that are incorrectly registered. Then the question is: how much of our common resources should we spend on controlling this 98% when it is this 2% that we want to get at? Or is it more effective to work specifically against this 2%? That is what we have been working on in recent years when we have strengthened the Swedish Tax Agency's ability to target these 2%. But I'm willing to listen to arguments. I think it is important to have with you that when you have done censuses in Sweden – most recently the population and housing census – you use a lot of register data. You also have forms that you send out. It is clear that if people are wrongly registered by mistake, they may be dealt with in a census. Of course, those who are deliberately misrecorded in order to supply funds and cheat will not fill in the forms in such a way that they are properly registered. I just find it hard to see that with a census you would get to grips with what is deliberately cheating and wrong, at least with a census of the type you had before. But I am willing to listen to Niklas Wykman's arguments on this and also to comment on the civil record crime.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-251	Madam President, I would like The rule of civil record crime is reinstated, and that's a good thing. Magdalena Andersson and this government have a belief that you can't express that things are going wrong and a desire to claim that everything you do is right. Of course, that is not the case. The abolition of the classification of crimes in civil records was wrong, as seen afterwards. It is also simple to note that the reintroduction of this offence has not solved the problems. So are the problems greater or less now? The problems are greater now, despite the reintroduction of the offence. It is my conviction that a very large part of the Swedish people share this view. One might wonder for what purpose Magdalena Andersson believes that this particular measure helps, for obviously it does not. This captures a little bit what is at the heart of the problem for this government. Action, legislation, investigations, cooperation, January agreements and points on various types of lists are commended. In theory, according to the government, the country is great. But in reality it's not. In reality, there are very many serious problems, where all the measures for which the government is boasting clearly do not help and do not work. Magdalena Andersson said she wanted to listen to arguments. It does not seem right now that the conditions for it are the best. However, if an attempt were to be made, it is clear that we have set aside half a billion in our budget to carry out a census. Magdalena Andersson is doing something that is popular these days, Madam President: it is painted that the opponent wants something, and then they argue against it. But the Moderates have never proposed anything similar to what Magdalena Andersson describes. On the contrary, we have carefully reviewed our proposal that we believe that the Tax Authority and other authorities should have the opportunity to work risk-based and that one should be able to focus in particular on areas, addresses or contexts where one can imagine that the errors are large. We have made it clear that for most people it can surely be enough to have a digital verification of where you live. Magdalena Andersson has obviously not listened to this, but she now has the chance to hear it. Our estimate and assessment is that a sufficient effort of this kind next year costs about SEK 500 million. It is very much money, but in a state budget it is not a crucial cost. It is therefore difficult to understand why Magdalena Andersson settles for about a tenth of the resources that are reasonably needed to overcome the problems. Is there any other reason, Magdalena Andersson, which is not yet prepared for why one opposes a national census? Are there problems in Borlänge, Malmö or somewhere else that you do not want clearly to surface? It is difficult to understand the reluctance to solve this. Of course, this is not a perfect solution. It does not solve all the problems, nor would anyone ever argue that. Of course, it will mean a certain sacrifice for all people to have to verify their registered address and so on. But it is my conviction that almost all Swedes are prepared to put it in the 15 minutes or 20 minutes it would take to help counter the very serious and organised crime that targets both people physically and our common resources in public finances. The Moderates' bid is very clear, Magdalena Andersson. It is half a billion SEK, and we are, of course, targeting these 2%. Why does the Minister of Finance say no?
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-261	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman claims that there has been an increase in census errors. Now I see him shaking his head, so apparently he doesn't. Otherwise you could get that view when listening to his speech, but it is good that we agree that there are no statistics indicating that they have increased. On the other hand, such statistics are, of course, always surrounded by great uncertainty. I still don't think I've heard anything from Niklas Wykman but that we should invest a lot in population accounting errors, that it's important that you work risk-based and that the Swedish Tax Agency is now putting in its actions where you think there may be errors or where you have intelligence about this. There we are in complete agreement. But what I don't feel so convinced of – even after listening to Niklas Wykman – is that we should spend a lot of resources on the part of society to control all the 98% that are properly registered. I do not yet feel convinced that this is the right way forward. However, the Swedish Tax Agency should of course focus on the addresses where you think there may be errors in the population register. There, too, we have now introduced, among other things, a notification obligation when others can discover that there is a risk that people are wrongly registered.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-265	Madam President, I would like Sweden is seriously plagued by crime. It is crimes against the security of the individual in everyday life. It's about violence, and it's about gangs in the streets. Sweden is also affected by another type of serious crime. It is gangs that are trying to drain our common resources in a more refined way by using resources from the well-being to which they are not at all entitled. This requires action – action that our authorities point out. There's a need for order and order in the population records. There is a need for order and order with the coordination numbers. This dismisses the Minister of Finance in saying that it would be too much of a sacrifice for other people to verify their registered address. But doing this would be a very simple and quick process for the vast majority of people. On the basis of such a study, the relevant authorities could identify where the problems are and put in place measures. Magdalena Andersson is surely aware that all of us Swedes declare each year. The vast majority can send in a letter or verify with their bank ID where you live and where you are registered somewhere. This is what Magdalena Andersson uses. She believes so little about the Swedish people that she says that the 20 minutes it would take for the vast majority is an insurmountable obstacle to getting at crime and people who cheat. So little do I think about the Swedish people. I know that people are prepared to do much to address this type of problem, much more than is necessary to verify their registered address. So stop hiding, Magdalena Andersson, behind what you think is unwillingness from the Swedish people! They want us to solve these problems.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-272	Madam President, I would like That's nonsense, actually. That's not what I said at all. It is interesting that Niklas Wykman began by saying that we didn't have to have a high tone in this debate – as long as that insight of Niklas Wykman was sufficient. I'm not surprised. I have never argued that it is the work of individuals to make a census that is the problem. The problem is how to use our common resources, the money of the authorities, most effectively. Is it by having a large administrative procedure around this, or is it by specifically working with the 2% that is deemed to be wrongly registered? For me as Minister of Finance, who is also responsible for taxing the Swedish people, it is always very important to use our common resources in the most effective way. It is not an authority that has come to me and said: we believe that a census would be the most effective way to get to grips with the errors in the census. In that case, of course, I would be prepared to listen. I am also prepared to listen to Niklas Wykman if he can make convincing arguments that this is the most effective way of using our common resources, taxpayers' money. I have not heard those arguments in this debate, but I am, of course, prepared to continue listening if Niklas Wykman makes any other arguments or if the authorities working on this mean that this would be an effective tool. This government has shown that it is prepared to take a strong stand against the crime that exists. It is serious, it affects many and drains our common resources, as Niklas Wykman says. That is precisely why we should use the tools that are most effective in tackling crime in the most effective way. There is my assessment at present that a census is not the most effective tool. I have not been convinced by this debate, but I am prepared to continue listening.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-277	Madam President, I would like Mr Wallmark has asked me whether I intend to ensure that Sweden does not regard and treat Lukasjenko as a legitimate representative of Belarus, now that he has once again, for the sixth time, installed himself as President. I have been asked on several occasions recently about the government's view of developments in Belarus. I welcome this commitment. It is a strength that the Swedish Parliament stands together for respect for human rights and democracy and the right to express itself freely. The government is closely following, and shares, the concerns about, the developments in Belarus. The government has clearly condemned any disproportionate use of force, arbitrary detention of peaceful demonstrators and electoral fraud for which the Belarus regime is responsible. Lukasjenko today lacks any form of democratic legitimacy. Lukasjenko exercises control over state belarusian institutions, and it is his responsibility to be called upon for violations of human rights and the undermining of democracy and the rule of law. Sweden recognises states, not governments or leaders. The EU's unity and common position are crucial for dealing with the situation in Belarus. At the meeting of Foreign Ministers on 12 October, we decided that the EU should restrict bilateral cooperation with central authorities in Belarus and exclude cooperation with institutions responsible for human rights violations. Cooperation with Belarus in the framework of the Eastern Partnership will continue at non-political level. We will continue to coordinate our approach to Belarus at European level. The government is determined not to contribute to legitimizing Lukasjenko rule. The EU has imposed sanctions on representatives of his regime and has agreed to begin work on further sanctions listings, including against Lukasjenko. For a long time, Sweden has pursued a clear and consistent policy on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Belarus, which marked against all forms of electoral fraud, unjust restrictions on freedom of assembly and expression, as well as arbitrary detention of peaceful demonstrators, oppositionists, trade union representatives, journalists and other media workers. We have done this publicly and in different contexts, within the EU and the UN and directly to Belarus, including during my visit to Minsk in November 2019. Sweden has a long-term, sustained commitment to Belarus that aims to gradually influence attitudes, attitudes and knowledge. It is our conviction that, in the long term, this work can contribute to structural improvements. The work has always enjoyed strong support from the NGOs that we regularly consult in Belarus. Within the aid, Sweden supports independent civil society organisations and finances collaborations between Swedish party-related organisations and their counterparts in Belarus. In view of the latest developments in the country, we are now looking at how we can intensify support for belarusian civil society. Only a peaceful and democratic process supported by a strong civil society and monitored by independent and free media can lead to sustainable solutions to the current situation. The Belarus regime must engage in genuine dialogue with the opposition. As incoming Chairman of the OSSE, I have offered, together with the current Albanian Presidency, the facilitation of such a dialogue. Unfortunately, the behaviour of the regime means that the conditions for this are currently lacking. We need to use all available tools to influence developments in the right direction and to work for Belarus to respect human rights commitments and the commitments on fundamental rights that we have jointly agreed within the OSSE.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-286	Madam President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Jarl Hjalmarson Foundation, a Moderates party-based international foundation that is also funded by tax funds, has been engaged in Belarus, before Belarus, throughout its existence. It publishes a newsletter, and I scissors from just the last few days: Protests of pensioners are being attacked by police. More than 100 people were arrested, one of them a 59-year-old woman sentenced to 13 days in prison. Her son was not allowed to give her either medication or warm clothes. Another headline: Florists arrested and severely beaten. More headlines, Madam President: Great brutality against demonstrators and many injured during this weekend's protests. Women all over the world demonstrated to Belarus on Saturday. We can read this type of rapsodic reporting from Belarus. That is also why, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out in his reply, there is a strong commitment in Sweden – in the Riksdag, in civil society and in streets and squares. Belarus is close to us, geographically but also politically and emotionally. This is part of our neighbourhood, and that is why what is happening and the violence that we now see is so outrageous. That's what my interpellation was about. What happened now in this immediate region was that almost at dusk, hidden from the outside world, Lukasjenko allowed himself to be sworn in for another presidential term. It would have formally expired on 5 November, I think, but now he is already invincible by himself – not because he has a popular legitimacy. This is what my question is ultimately about. How are we gonna treat this person? Madam President, I would like The Foreign Minister is very diplomatic and says that we do not recognise governments or leaders but that we recognise states. It's true on one plane, but not on another. For example, we can see this with regard to Venezuela. The very same wording was used by the same government until it became clear one day that President Maduro could not be a legitimate representative and we are therefore today saying that it is the National Assembly of Venezuela and Guaidó as its President that is the legitimate representative. It is therefore extremely important to mark from the Speaker's Chair: Lukasjenko is not a legitimate representative of Belarus. Then there is reason, Madam President, to see what we can do further to assist the people of Belarus who are fighting. I think it is excellent that the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that Sweden can facilitate. I would therefore like to ask a specific question: could it not also be included in facilitation that Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, who is the representative and symbol of the free Belarus, is invited to Sweden, for example? I know that the Foreign Minister has had contact with her, I myself have had contact with her, and various organisations, such as the Nordic Council, are in contact. In addition, Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, together with the other representatives of democracy, has called for Lukasjenko to resign formally as President by 25 October. Otherwise, a general strike will be announced on October 26. Then the question is, How do we approach it? What will we say to the struggling Belarian people on 26 October when they go out into the streets and squares to fight for their freedom?
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-295	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Wallmark, for bringing this important discussion to the House of Parliament! I'm also glad you're taking up the work of the Jarl Hjalmarson Foundation. I myself have been involved in Olof Palme's international centre, where I served on the board for 13 years and was also Vice-Chairman. We already started a 2000 campaign called stopluka.nu. It then turned in 2002 into another campaign called Freedom of expression and freedom of the press in Belarus. Today, we do not call the country Belarus, but Belarus. Among other things, I myself and the then Foreign Minister Anna Lindh held square meetings where we demanded freedom of expression and freedom of the press. The first time I myself participated in cooperation in Belarus with civil society organisations was in 2004, when we worked with women's organisations in particular. Then it has been followed by a series of other activities. I therefore fully share the view that Mr Wallmark has. It is extremely important that we invest in direct contacts between our parties, our NGOs and the media. It is something that really supports civil society and the people of Belarus. The government has been very clear that the presidential elections in Belarus were not free or fair. We have condemned the violence that Hans Wallmark tells us about and that we unfortunately receive reports of in principle daily. Moreover, some of the violence is very serious. We do not acknowledge the outcome of the elections. I find it difficult to see that there are conditions for Aleksandr Lukasjenko to remain in office, not least after the secret presidential installation that removed the last possibility of having a direct contact. We want there to be new elections – we support the opposition with regard to it – as observed by the OSSE and Odihr, which is the organisation for human rights within the OSSE and which has, among other things, election observation. What this political transition should be like is a matter for the Belarussian people to take a stand on. We will continue to make clear demands on Lukasjenko that he stop the violence and harassment and engage in genuine dialogue with the opposition. He has had a so-called dialogue inside the KGB prison with imprisoned opposition politicians. That, of course, is by no means a free dialogue. Of course, all political prisoners must be released before such a dialogue can be held at all. That is when we, the OSCE Presidency, have said that we are prepared to facilitate it. Only a few days ago, Svetlana Tichanovskaya supported this proposal in personal conversations with Swedish diplomats.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-302	Madam President, I would like The Foreign Minister and the undersigned have now presented the problem. We have described what is happening in Belarus in a rather similar way. I think that what the Foreign Minister said in no way or changes my picture as little as I said the Foreign Minister's picture, but we are very much in agreement. I also think, purely parenthetic, Madam President, that it has been a strength over the years that Social Democrats and Moderates have worked side by side in a number of countries to enlighten about the strengths of democracy and open society. Belarus is such an area. I would like to pay tribute to the Social Democrats and the International Centre of Olof Palme in the same way that the Minister for Foreign Affairs returned it with regard to the Jarl Halmarson Foundation. I think that shows the positive Swedish distinctiveness. Now I think that, in this round of the debate, we need to start concentrating on moving from words to actions. The remarkable election round, which none of us admit, was held on August 9th. After that, we saw a massive stream of people walking out into streets and squares with red - white banners and flowers in their hands to demand their country's restoration of honor. They have done it day in and day out, and so they have asked us in Europe and Europe: what are you doing, and how do you mark? I know that it has been painful for the Foreign Minister, and it has been very painful for me to see that the European Union has had such difficulty in formulating a clear message in the form of sanctions. Now it has come into place, in the end, and the government should have honour and respect for that along with the other countries that have pushed for it. But this long time suit provokes. We must now be able to give an answer to the belarusian people to the question: what else do you intend to do in Europe? One problem with these types of leaders who build their power on the violence and abuse is that they want nothing more than to stay behind. They want time to pass. Month is added to month, and years are added to year. This is what Lukasjenko has been doing for over 20 years now. That's how Maduro holds on to power in Venezuela. That is why a number of things are required. I think it would be good if we in Sweden said that elections must be conducted that are correct, fair, transparent and democratic. It hasn't happened in Belarus in two decades. I think it would be good if Sweden's Minister for Foreign Affairs said that, in the context of facilitating these talks, it would be reasonable for Svetlana Tikhanovskaya to come to Sweden, if she so wishes. We have had other representatives of the belarusic democracy movement here, but she is the emblematic symbol. I also believe that we must prepare ourselves, Madam President, not because when the presidential change should have taken place at the beginning of November, but already now, because on 25 and 26 October, when the democratic activists and Svetlana Tikhanovskaya have said Lukasjenko must withdraw at the latest. I do not think he will, Madam President, and I do not think the Foreign Minister will believe it either. Then we must relate to a Belarus which will boil even more – perhaps in the form of strikes and perhaps in the form of further increased violence on the part of the regime. Then we cannot do what we did for six weeks in Europe. When people from Minsk ask us what we're doing, we need to be able to formulate an answer. Our words are important. Our action is important.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-312	Madam President, I would like Once again, Mr Wallmark and I share the same view of the situation in Belarus. There is no disagreement that we are calling for fair elections to be conducted and fully monitored by the OSSE Election Observation and Human Rights Organisation, Odihr. Swedish former parliamentarian Kent Härstedt has also been a leader in election observation organisations in Belarus on several occasions. As far as the coordination council is concerned, Svetlana Tikhanovskaya is, of course, welcome here any day of the week. I've met her personally and had conversations with her. Swedish diplomats also had long talks with her just a few days ago. Kovalkova, who is a bit more of a real politician, has also visited Sweden. She was, of course, invited to the State Department. I have also had long talks with former Minister of Culture Latusjka, who is now a member of the Coordination Council. It is important that those who are in the coordination council decide for themselves what is most effective, if they are going to a specific country – everyone wants Svetlana Tichhanovskaya to come to their country – or if they prefer to come to them, which we did as late as last week. It must be entirely on their terms. Support must not depend on them coming here because we want to see them. What they want should be crucial. Mr Wallmark knows that I find it painful that the EU took two months to get the sanctions in place. We know that this was because there are demands for unanimity on all these issues. That is why I think, as the Prime Minister has also said, that certain issues should be reviewed if it is not reasonable to have a qualified majority. This applies, for example, to human rights and this type of sanctions against human rights violations. The question is, then, what can we do? I still think it is important that we support civil society. Sweden is now giving one of the largest support to civil society that any country provides, 120 million a year. It is about support for democracy and human rights, but also for market economy development and the environment and climate. As a result of the serious events surrounding the presidential elections, we have decided to freeze mainly those projects where state actors have played an active role. It is a project with the IMF and International Finance Corporation on economic development and so on. It is now frozen. On Monday, the Foreign Ministers of the European Union met. The EU, too, has now decided to increase support for civil society and the free media in various ways. However, you should know that it is not unproblematic. Repression of the regime against NGOs puts those who are partners and performers at risk.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-321	Madam President, I would like I have two border notes. First of all, the names that the Foreign Minister mentions are correct. We can add Margareta Cederfelt from the Moderates to that list. She is active in the OSCE context and engaged in election observation. The second is that it is excellent that the government has now frozen a number of projects providing aid to state actors in Belarus. It is also a signal to other countries about how to work with aid funds. I think you can have it as a democratic tool. It is then the subject of another debate. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentions, Pavel Latusjka is in Poland. Olga Kovalkova was here in Sweden and visited not only the Minister for Foreign Affairs but also the Riksdag. She's in Litua. And Svetlana Tikhanovskaya is in Lithuania. They are not in Poland and Lithuania because it is more fun to be there than in Belarus. They're chased away from their homeland. I also don't think we should invite on our terms. But they should know that to Sweden you can come if you want, in Sweden you can speak and from Sweden you can argue against what is happening in Belarus. It's called, in distress, the friend is being tested. We are the friend, Madam President. On the eve of October 25 to 26 and the strike called by Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, together with the other democracy activists, they have among other things said to the people in the factories: I am grateful for your courage. Your bosses are pushing you because they're afraid of the regime. And you're so important. For many years, the regime has done everything to protect itself, not you. I know it's not easy for you. This fight takes courage. But your actions bring us every day closer to victory. All Belaris understand the importance of your strike and are ready to support you. The whole country and I support you. We're proud of you. Remember, when we're together, they can't stop us! That is Svetlana Tikhanovskaya's own words. I repeat them here in Parliament's pulpit with the reminder: Remember, you are not alone! We in Sweden are behind you in your struggle.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-327	Madam President, I would like They know. The Coordination Council and the opposition know that they can always come to Sweden, that we can always support them in any way they want. As I have mentioned before, the European Union is now getting up steam. There is a reduction in bilateral cooperation with the Belarus authorities. Support for the belarus people and civil society is being increased. Additional financial resources have been made available to victims of violence for the brutality of peaceful demonstrators and civil society organisations and independent media. Our actions, on the other hand, must not result in the people being punished more severely. No one benefits from total isolation. We shall continue to have contacts with civil society and not least the coordination council. We will not turn our backs on Belarus. We shall welcome deeper cooperation with a free and democratic Belarus. We must also see what happens if Belarus becomes democratic. Then we shall be prepared to enter immediately. The Swedish Government is fully behind the belarusic people. We support their right to self-determination. We support their right to freely choose their leaders. This also concerns our own security and stability. We need a democratic development in Belarus.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-332	Madam President, I would like Mr Arin has asked me what steps I intend to take to achieve a cease-fire and resume negotiations within the OSCE Minsk Group. He has asked whether I intend to condemn Turkish involvement in the conflict and what consequences I think it should have if the data on the involvement of Turkish combat aircraft and Islamic jihadists in the conflict are correct. The government is following closely and with concern the serious escalation in the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan that has taken place since the summer and has further intensified in recent weeks. As Mr Arin mentions, it is difficult to establish with certainty who has escalated the conflict, and both parties blame each other. The European Council on 1 October called for an immediate ceasefire and stressed that there was no military solution to the crisis. The European Council also expressed its clear opposition to external interference in the conflict and has given its full support to the OSCE Minsk Group. Sweden fully supports this statement. The Swedish position is clear: an immediate ceasefire and a return to negotiations under the OSCE Minsk Group. There is no alternative to a peaceful negotiated solution to the conflict. I have said this personally to the foreign ministers of Armenia and Azerbaijan. I have also had a video meeting with the three Co-Chairs of the Minsk Group – they come from the US, France and Russia – and the personal representative of the OSCE President. During my talks, I have expressed my full support for the efforts of the Co-Chairman of the Minsk Group to put an end to the fighting and to call for renewed talks in this format. The Foreign Ministers of Armenia and Azerbaijan met in Moscow on 9 October at the invitation of Russia and agreed on a humanitarian ceasefire. Both sides must now show that this agreement is being respected. Sweden calls on all actors, including Turkey, to act constructively in order to bring about a ceasefire and a return to negotiations under the co-chairs of the OSCE Minsk Group. Unfortunately, the involvement of regional actors in the conflict cannot be ruled out. This would pose a serious threat to the stability of the region.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-338	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. On 27 September, a dictatorship, together with a larger dictatorship, attacked a small democracy. When I wrote this interpellation, it was very unclear who started the fighting. It's almost three weeks. The whole thing is now very clear. The Foreign Minister's representative Carl Bildt wrote on his blog that everything indicates that Azerbaijan has taken the initiative in view of the broad coordinated attack along the entire contact line. This applies not only to Nagorno-Karabakh but also to the other districts connecting the area and forming a security corridor for Armenia so that Nagorno-Karabakh is not surrounded. Now we are talking about pure geopolitics. But what happens in the field? We can look at Turkey's statements and its military supplies during the third quarter, which have tenfold doubled to Azerbaijan. You can also look at the Turkish drones that have been shot down. It's about Bayraktar TB2. The CEO of the manufacturer happens to be President Erdo's son-in-law. This is what we see. The French colleague of the Foreign Minister, like President Macron, has said that Turkey has sent Islamic terrorists from northern Syria to Azerbaijan. There are videos showing this. It's also verified by Reuters. Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported this week that fallen Islamists have flown back to Syria. Let us be clear! Not only has Turkey caused problems in the Caucasus, but they have also caused problems in Libya, in northern Syria and in the economic zone of Greece and Cyprus. They have launched a direct attack on our European Community. They do not respect human rights at all. At the same time, we have a Russia with its arms crossed because it wants to blackmail Armenia. There is no other great power to which Armenia can turn. What you do from Europe is send some paper products. That's not how war works. What you do is go down on your knees like Lukasjenko and say, "Please take Belarus!" Just let me stay in power. The exact same thing is done by Alijev in Baku. He has inherited power from his father and has been in office for 30 years. He has said to his people, "Just let me remain in power." In the meantime, he's drained the country of all resources. Everything is concentrated on his family. He says, "I will free Karabach." But a promise can't last forever. They tried on July 12th. Turkey then realised that Azerbaijan's military has no capability. That's when you went in. Their air defences have been taken over. Amnesty reports that Israeli cluster bombs have been used against the civilian population in Nagorno-Karabakh – in Artsach – and the capital Stepanakert. Not all the sources to which I refer are Armenian, but international reliable and independent sources. The Foreign Minister speaks of constructive action. Who does she mean?
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-349	Madam President, I would like The horror that is now taking place in and around Armenia and the Republic of Artsach has hardly been able to escape anyone. Azerbaijan's actions, backed up by Turkey, constitute serious violations of the fundamental principles of international law and are directly opposed to previous calls for a ceasefire by the UN Secretary-General. Azerbaijan's recurrent acts of violence and military escalation are totally unacceptable and must be condemned by the outside world. In the past, I have asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs what measures she is taking with regard to Azerbaijan and Turkey and whether it is intended to draw up a strategy to persuade Azerbaijan to cease its arms. The latter I asked particularly because Sweden takes over the chairmanship of the OSSE at the turn of the year. I am well aware that the Swedish Government has initially had to play a certain diplomatic role in the conflict in order not to interfere with future opportunities to influence as the country holding the Presidency. That is also something the Foreign Minister points out in his answer to my question. But that's not good enough anymore. The situation is now extremely serious. The small Christian country with 3 million inhabitants is surrounded by militaryly powerful Muslim neighbours, together with over 90 million inhabitants who are now trying to finish what they started a hundred years ago through the genocide of 1915. The Azarite dictator Alijev is being imposed by the Turkish despot Erdo in this attempt. Turkey, in addition to substantially increasing its arms exports to Azerbaijan, and taking part in attacks, has also brought thousands of jihadists from Syria to Azerbaijan to fight with Armenia. The Swedish government can no longer take a passive role and, as it is said, In her reply to the interpellant, the Foreign Minister said that both sides must now show that this agreement is being respected, with reference to the agreement reached on 9 October in Moscow. Stop treating the parties as equal! They're not. They're not equal. They do not have the same responsibility for the conflict that is now taking place. On the one hand, Madam President, we have two dictatorships which, with the help of Islamist terrorists, are attacking violently both military and civilian targets where innocent people are killed. On the other hand, Madam President, there is the small Christian democracy which lies in the middle and which defends its nation against seemingly overpowering enemies. They are not equivalent and should not be treated as such. Azerbaijan stopped following the humanitarian cease-fire agreement to take care of bodies and exchange prisoners only five minutes after the cease-fire took effect. This was done by attacking targets in both Armenia and Artsach. I believe that the outside world, and thus the Swedish government, cannot just stand and watch. The government must set its foot and act resolutely in condemning the aggressions of these dictatorships. Too many times throughout history, the outside world has chosen to quietly watch as states and nations are destroyed. Let us not repeat this! Azerbaijan and Turkey must cease their aggression, and Azerbaijan must be forced back to the negotiating table within the framework of the OSCE Minsk Group in order to seek a peaceful long-term solution to the conflict. In the past and in other contexts, the Social Democrats have expressed the need to stand on the right side of history. Do it now, Secretary of State! Show me you mean it too! Otherwise, it's just empty words.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-358	Madam President, I would like The government is deeply concerned about the reports of continued fighting in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, despite the humanitarian ceasefire agreement agreed by the parties in Moscow on 10 October. This development is deeply tragic, especially in view of all civilians who have been killed or affected in various ways, as well as the risks of further escalation. Sweden supports the Co-Chairship of the Minsk Group and the Personal Representative of the OSCE Presidency in their calls for immediate ceasefire and resumption of negotiations. As I mentioned earlier, the Swedish position is clear: immediate ceasefire and reopened negotiations under the co-chair of the Minsk Group. There is no alternative to a peaceful solution to the conflict. Sweden's commitment to the OSSE and its important role in contributing to security and cooperation in Europe is well known. Since we were appointed Chairman of the OSSE in 2021, we have been clear that our priorities are to bring the protracted conflicts in the region closer solutions within the framework of the European Security Order. With regard to the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, we are behind the Minsk Co-Chairman and the personal representative of the OSCE Presidency. Any initiative that can bring the conflict closer to a solution has our full support. I welcome the fact that the Foreign Ministers of Armenia and Azerbaijan accepted Russia's invitation to meet in Moscow and were able to agree on a humanitarian ceasefire. However, the information on violations of the ceasefire is of course very worrying. It is now up to the sides to show genuine respect for the agreement and for international humanitarian law. I have called on Armenia and Azerbaijan to use this ceasefire to engage in constructive dialogue with a view to a long-term and politically sustainable peaceful solution to the conflict. The European Council and the High Representative of the EU, Mr Borrell, have spoken out against external interference in the conflict. Sweden fully supports this statement. External actors, including Turkey, must contribute to the de-escalation of the conflict and to the respect of the ceasefire agreement and the return of the parties to the negotiating table. I also made this point directly to my Turkish Foreign Minister's colleague when I visited Ankara earlier this week. If data on cluster bombs targeting civilians are correct, it is unacceptable and contrary to international humanitarian law. The government has a clear view of the use of cluster ammunition and is working to ensure that more countries accede to the Convention on such ammunition. We also want the largest manufacturers and users of cluster ammunition to adhere to the Convention, so that a ban on use is effective.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-364	Madam President, I would like I understand that there is a diplomatic limitation if you are to enter a Presidency. But now it is a great power that is causing it not just for a small country but for its entire region. It recruits Islamic terrorists who have committed the worst abuses against the civilian population in northern Syria – enslaved Yazid women, murdered and raped. They have done all the worst things man can do. They are recruited and sent to Azerbaijan. We can take another example: Turkey has closed its airspace for humanitarian aid to Armenia. Is this being constructive? Is it to be constructive to sell drones? We know very well what Turkey wants. They want to be one of the co-chairmen. Right now it's Russia, the United States and France. I do not understand why the government's position is wrapped in words. If France, which is one of the three co-chairmen and belongs to our allies within the European Union, dares to move forward, why can little Sweden not do so? Is it that we in Sweden are very good at using fine words but that they do not mean anything when it comes to action? Yes, call for a cease fire! It has one of NATO's largest armies and a population of 82 million people. Azerbaijan has a population of 10 million people. Armenia has already said that they want a truce. Armenia has no economy. They're on the defensive. They don't have as much manpower. In Baku we have a dictator who since he inherited the power of his father Gejdar Alijev has promised to free Nagorno-Karabakh. The rhetoric is this: on 27 September Azerbaijan says they were attacked. On the same day, they say they will free the entire Nagorno-Karabakh. That rhetoric doesn't make sense. Amnesty, whom I respect, an independent party and an NGO, says that they have documented that cluster bombs have been used. They have even indicated the name of the manufacturer and the type of cluster bombs involved. I understand that the Foreign Minister has an answer about what it was like two weeks ago, because that was when the interpellation was written. The conflict has changed. The rhetoric from Turkey is different. It is only for the Foreign Minister to read – or ask someone in his staff to do so – Facebook posts from his counterpart Çavuşo中lu: Fight against terrorism! At the same time, they have sent over the al-H amza Brigade. Now there is information that they may have entered Russia or Iran. Madam President, I would like What Russia wants is for Armenia to get on its knees, just as Lukasjenko has done. Armenia underwent a velvet revolution. The Secretary of State knows that. The Presidium of the President knows that. Since Armenia became a democracy in 2018, Sweden's bilateral relations with Armenia have deepened. Why can't the Foreign Minister just condemn Turkey's actions?
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-373	Madam President, I would like The Foreign Minister said in his previous speech that there are no alternatives to peaceful negotiated solutions to the conflict and that she personally presented this to the foreign ministers in Armenia and Azerbaijan. I agree that the conflict must be resolved at the negotiating table, not through weapons. It should be borne in mind, however, that for the Armenian side there has been no reason for anything else. Those who have everything to gain by starting a war now are Azerbaijan and its dictator. Dictatorships usually historically receive great support internally when they go to military aggression against an external enemy. This is what is now happening in Azerbaijan. It is important that, in addition to strongly condemning Azerbaijan and Turkey, the Swedish Government should also take a number of other measures. Firstly, international efforts should be made to set up an investigation to hold those responsible for the attacks to account for the violations of international law. I'm not gonna let them get away. In addition, there are now numerous data on pure war crimes that need to be investigated. Secondly, Sweden within the EU should work towards the immediate conclusion of all membership negotiations with Turkey – not just stand still, as it is now, but are completely concluded. Furthermore, Mr Erdo中an himself has said that Turkey does not need the European Union. Thirdly, Sweden should work within the EU to impose strong sanctions on both Azerbaijan and Turkey, both personal sanctions and trade sanctions. It is time for the government to act decisively, regardless of the forthcoming Presidency. It has gone so far now that we can no longer sit still and watch. Their actions must be strongly condemned, and I hope that the Foreign Minister will be able to take on board this.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-376	Madam President, I would like The guiding principle for my actions as Sweden's Minister for Foreign Affairs is the promotion of dialogue and cooperation so that we can find a long-term and politically sustainable solution to the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan. Our position is very clear. There must be an immediate cease-fire. There must be a return to the negotiations under the OSCE Minsk Group. There is no alternative to a peaceful negotiated solution to the conflict. We call on all actors associated with the conflict to act constructively in order to bring about a ceasefire and a return to negotiations under the OSCE Minsk Group. This applies, in particular, to Turkey. The European Council on 1 October called for an immediate ceasefire and stressed that there was no military solution to the crisis. The European Council also expressed its opposition to external interference in the conflict. It has also given its full support to the OSCE Minsk Group. We fully support this statement.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-378	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, although I am not satisfied with the answer. I would just like to inform the Minister for Foreign Affairs that there are now about 500 Swedish Armenians on Coins Square. Each of them are grandchildren or great-grandchildren of people who were the victims of the Armenian genocide. Erdo中an himself said this summer: We will complete what our ancestors did not complete. Each one of them standing out there has some relative right now down in Armenia. Armenia is a small country. That's 3 million people. I am not going to raise the question now why the government has not recognised the Armenian genocide in 1915, but I would like to tell you something else. The government is very proud that it pursues a feminist foreign policy. There is a picture of a Swedish heroine in the room of good deeds. Her name was Alma Johansson. She devoted her whole life to taking him for orphans during and after the Armenian genocide. She was the hero of the 20th century. Sometime we will also be mentioned in the history books. The Secretary of State has two choices. The first choice is that she becomes Alma Johansson of the 21st century, a Swedish heroine who made sure to prevent a new genocide on Armenians. The second choice is that, like many other times, you stood there with your arms crossed and did not do everything in your power. The elections are entirely in the hands of the Foreign Minister.
i-daaf4bed8a426df1-383	Madam President, I would like During my visit to Ankara earlier this week, of course, I raised the fighting in Nagorno-Karabakh with my Turkish counterpart. I expressed my concern that the fighting continued despite the cease-fire in the days before and that we were against external interference. As incoming Chairman of the OSSE, I also expressed my support for the Co-Chairs of the Minsk Group and their efforts to end the conflict. In my conversation with the Turkish Foreign Minister, I also stressed the seriousness of the continuing harvest of civilian victims of the conflict. All actors involved in the conflict must act constructively in order to bring about a ceasefire and return to the negotiations. The EU has also clearly spoken out against external interference in the conflict.
