i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-6	Mr President, I would like to Today we are going to re-examine a report on professional traffic on our roads. Sweden depends on good roads and truck transport. We have long distances, and every shipment of goods ends or begins with a truck. If the whole of Sweden is to live and develop, transport is needed. It's necessary for us to be able to buy and sell goods. It is no coincidence that Sweden has two of the world's largest truck manufacturers: Volvo Trucks and Scania. Sweden needs the trucks. We also need to ensure that we have roads that keep and are navigable all year round. Mr President, I would like to Despite many comments and several announcements from the Transport Committee and decisions here in Parliament, the government has not been able to maintain law and order on our roads. Illicit traffic can continue with its illegal transport operations without much risk of being caught. Illicit traffic can ignore driving and rest times. It has lower-taxed diesel, poorer tyres and vehicles that are dangerous to traffic. It doesn't care about the cabotage and combi rules. It's crossing our borders without control. And there's a big risk that there might be onyktra drivers in the trucks. Mr President, I would like to This government has soon ruled for six years without more traffic policemen being able to keep track of professional traffic. There are missing policemen both on the road and in the rest of society. Criminals can wreak havoc at no risk of being caught. The government has completely lost control. Mr President, I would like to Where are the alco-bommers, which the Riksdag has decided on? They were supposed to be set up in our ports and border stations. Today they are only in Gothenburg.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-12	Where is the revision of the driving and resting times? This is a system similar to what Denmark has with a possible variation of up to 5%? Mr President, I would like to When are the illegal trucks to be trampled really, that is, until the faults have been paid and corrected? Despite the fact that several representatives of the S before the 2014 elections pointed out that it would be a time to clap until measures were taken, only 36 hours still apply. Mr President, I would like to There's no rest areas. When will professional traffic be given more safe and secure rest places? The review that the Finnish Transport Administration is currently working on is far from sufficient. There is no need for further analyses and investigations. A workshop is needed to immediately start the expansion of more safe and secure rest areas, so that it works and so that our drivers along the roads can take their break and get their daily rest without the risk of being robbed. The industry has already worked out where the shortcomings on our roads are and which rest areas are missing, so the government has only to ensure that this is implemented. Do it now! Mr President, I would like to When are we going to have a review of the penalty charges, so that no misprints can cause high charges for hauliers? When should there be better control and compliance with the customer responsibility? Laws are good, but compliance with the laws must also work. When will there be better control of onytra drivers? With reduced controls, people are at risk of dying because of onyktra drivers on our roads. Mr President, I would like to Here in Sweden, there is a need for a traffic police unit to supervise, similar to BAG in Germany. Mr President, I would like to Better control of driving licences is needed. Today it is possible to buy a driving licence. If the controls are not available, this may continue. There is a need for better control of compliance by foreign road hauliers with cabotage rules and better control of foreign road hauliers with regard to combined transport. Today, they don't have to leave the country. In addition, they can drive distances that are significantly longer than combined traffic allows. Mr President, I would like to We have poor winter road clearance, which involves risks to both human life and the transport of our goods. The government has still not taken hold of the rearmament and reinforcement of our roads so that they can cope with 74 tons. Mr President, I would like to When will the competitiveness inquiry concerning Swedish haulage industry, which the Transport Committee ordered? We decided on this in the Riksdag on 19 April 2017? It has soon been three years, and we still do not have a competitiveness study on the haulage industry in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Instead of strengthening Swedish haulage industry by lowering petrol and diesel taxes, the government continues to increase fuel taxes, which makes Swedish haulage companies even more competitive. The Moderates proposed a reduction of the diesel tax of SEK 1 per litre. This corresponds to about 60 000 SEK for a truck that rolls about 20 000 km per year. The Swedish government speaks beautifully about strengthening competitiveness but does nothing to implement it. Rather, they do just the opposite. They raise taxes and costs for the haulage industry. Mr President, I would like to Instead of tackling illegal transport and strengthening competitiveness, the government is engaged in producing fine documents, new strategies and new investigations and in increasing diesel tax. While the government is engaged in this, our legal hauliers and our jobs are being competed by both legal and illegal lorry transport from abroad. This, of course, is not acceptable. The Swedish Government has an obligation to implement what the Riksdag announces. This is where the government still has a lot to do. The government has an obligation to keep order so that illegal transport will not compete out of legal transport. If we have a regulatory framework, that should be followed. Here the government has completely lost control. Mr President, I would like to Making laws is important, but it is even more important for the government to ensure that the police have the resources to manage control on our roads. The fact that Sweden's haulage industry will have to compete with illegal transport and hauliers from abroad without controls is totally unacceptable. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Centre Party, the Liberals, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, who, together with us, moderates in this report, have forced the government to urgently introduce a navigation system that is not manipulable in all the foreign-registered, professional vehicles operating on the Swedish road network. This is a clear and direct mission to the government. Now make sure that this is also implemented immediately! I would like to ask the government representatives here in this House a few questions: how do you intend to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish haulage companies and companies? When will the competitiveness inquiry be completed? How will competitiveness become stronger with your new diesel tax increases? To conclude, Mr President, we Moderates support all our reservations, but for time-winning I only ask for reservation 8.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-31	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that the Swedish Democrats support all our reservations in the report, but in order to save time on voting, I only ask for reservation 4. Mr President, I would like to Over the past year, the conditions of the serious haulage industry have been debated, not only here in Parliament but also among the common people. More and more people understand the link between illegal goods traffic and other criminal activities. It has been noted in the media that stolen goods are taken out of the country for about SEK 2 billion annually, and then we are talking only about the goods that are insured. The road is simply the tool of criminals, and here the government has completely lost control of development. The number of traffic police has fallen sharply in recent years. Even more people are on their way to retire. The government has set up an investigation into how control activities should be organised in the future. That's good. At the same time, however, the fact that the activities of the current police organisation are being reduced to the extent that has taken place in recent years is unimaginable. However, I am pleased to see that more and more parties here in Parliament are beginning to talk about more effective control of professional traffic. That's good, too. There are increasing numbers of us who want to protect the serious entrepreneurship of the transport industry and thereby secure the jobs of serious entrepreneurs. Combating illegal traffic also means greatly reducing the ability of criminals to use the logistics system for their internal transport of contraband and stolen goods. Mr President, I would like to However, when the theme of a healthy transport industry is up for discussion, I have to comment on the opposite development we are seeing in the transport sector today. More and more goods are being moved from vehicles capable of carrying a gross weight of 64 tonnes to so-called European haulers, which usually have a gross weight of 40 tonnes. From an environmental point of view, this development is totally reprehensible, as there are three Europeans in two full-sized Swedish combinations. It gets worse when goods are moved to so-called 3.5-tonnes. These vehicles are light trucks with a total weight of 3.5 tonnes. The load weight of this vehicle type is about 1 tonne, sometimes less. Those who follow developments in the transport industry see that this type of vehicle is increasing rapidly. Traffic police have reported a large number of these so-called light loaders. Let me take a few headlines from the news stream: After all the overloads – Volvo Cars weighs 3.5 ton a lot, and four overloaded 3.5 ton –.k.a. fishing.k.a. continues.k.a. and more 3.5 ton. a threat to the environment. The fact that the police call the inspections aquarium fishing illustrates the seriousness of the situation with these overloaded vehicles. Mr President, I would like to What is the underlying reason why we see this trend towards ever smaller transport units? There are many reasons. I can't list everyone here, but if we look at the 3.5 tons, there are several reasons for this development. The vehicle type does not require a tachograph. They also do not need to have a traffic permit in international traffic. Only driving licence B is needed, and there are no requirements for YKB, i.e. a certificate of professional competence. In practice, these vehicles fly under government radar. The risk of having a police check-up is minimal. Mr President, I would like to Let me take an example that highlights the problem, not least from an environmental point of view. A full-sized combination – car and trailer – has a load weight of about 39 tonnes and a fuel consumption of about 4 litres of diesel per mile. A journey between Stockholm and Gothenburg thus consumes 188 litres of diesel. If the same quantity of goods is to be transported legally with so-called light loaders, no less than 39 vehicles are required. Their common fuel consumption would be about 2 000 litres for the same route. There's a difference of 1 812 liters, one-way. Return and return the difference is 3 624 liters. The fact that these light loaders carry heavy overloads is unsurprising because it is not possible to obtain a reasonable transport cost when loading legally. It is this development that we see in our transport industry, and it runs counter to all environmental ambitions. Mr President, I would like to Cabotage rules were added to minimise empty runs, and the rules say it should be a temporary domestic transport in a host country. However, cabotage and also combined transport have instead developed into an activity alongside all regulations. Mobile workshops and refuelling stations have been established to supply the foreign vehicles with workshop services and fuel. A common feature of mobile operations is that the work takes place in the open air, which means increased risks of spillage of environmentally hazardous liquids. There are brake changes, clutch changes and oil changes, as well as major and minor repairs along our roads and in parking spaces – a somewhat strange relationship, because one of the basic pillars of the cabotage rules is just occasioned by domestic transport in the host country. Had it been temporary transport, it would of course not create a market with mobile workshop services outdoors. What we are seeing is the result of a transport industry that has been left without control and protection from our authorities. The situation has led to serious road haulage companies with high environmental ambitions not being able to compete with foam companies that are constantly in breach of existing regulations. Developments have also had a negative impact on railway undertakings, as they also lose transport assignments. The increase in CO2 emissions from transport is hardly surprising when one sees developments in the transport industry. But what else can be expected with a political leadership that literally sits on its hands? Mr President, I would like to If we are to have a healthy, environmentally friendly and functioning transport market in which hauliers, railways and shipping can develop a healthy and sustainable transport industry, we must work hard against those operators who put in systems to overload or otherwise round the regulatory framework. Something is really sick about a transport industry that moves goods from efficient and environmentally friendly vehicles to small and energy-intensive units. If we do not get things right in the transport industry, all the ambitions of a fossil-free fleet of vehicles will be lost.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-51	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 5. Imagine an early morning. You jump into the cab of a Volvo or Scania truck and drive concrete roof beams to a school that is being built outside Gothenburg. You're going to refuel, and there's a lot of other things you're going to set up and keep track of before you can drive away. I myself have made several visits to haulage companies during my time here in Parliament, and on two occasions in the past year I have also gone with a driver one day to learn more about how it works out on the road. It's not just jumping into the cab and driving, it's a lot that drivers should keep track of before. Having been present on these two occasions, I can say that it is indeed the heroes of the road who every day carry out different transports of different kinds around our country. There is very strong competition in the transport industry, and we can unfortunately see that there are signs that the number of hauliers, both Swedish and foreign registered, operating illegally in the country has increased. Although the police have been given increased powers to stop trucks and drivers carrying out illegal cabotage, the resources are not sufficient. The Center Party considers it a priority to reduce fraud on our roads and reduce illegal cabotage, and therefore measures must be taken to increase supervision and road safety. There is therefore every reason to proceed with further action. The Center Party believes that there is a need for more traffic police, field officials from the Swedish Transport Agency and better coordination both within the authorities and between different authorities. The country's only police authority can decide to give priority to traffic control, but its police regions can choose whether or not to comply with the key directives. It is not good if the national police level has clear rules and decisions on what should be prioritised and the police regions then choose to prioritise road safety and traffic control. The key guidelines and decisions will then be toothless in the fight against crime in the transport sector. Mr President, I would like to The lack of staff with the competence to carry out checks is another problem today, which is why there is a need for reinforced staffing. This can of course be done with more traffic policemen, increased skills and other structures than the state. We refer, for example, to the fact that vehicle inspection companies' personnel or other operators who already have certain skills can broaden their competence and help with controls. Mr President, I would like to An important part of improving controls on professional road haulage is to have a reliable method of recording when and where a truck has crossed a border and to locate where loading and unloading operations take place. It is therefore a question of several different aspects, such as competition between Swedish and foreign hauliers, social conditions for drivers and that laws and rules for driving and rest times and cabotage rules are followed by everyone. A majority of the committee's parties are behind a sharper wording that the Center Party has been involved in producing. The committee also calls on the Commission and the Member States to take the necessary measures to ensure compliance with the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the field of education and training. ..................................................... It is therefore a question of getting a better order before the new tachograph with the location indication, a so-called log, is in place and in operation forward 2024 – 2025 – part of the EU mobility package. This is a technical issue, but it is so important that it is in place and followed by all hauliers.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-60	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the Left Party supports all its motions and reservations, but before the vote in this House, we are only calling for the Left Party's reservation 22 to be approved.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-62	Today, it is easier to get a taxi than it was before liberalisation, but at the same time a great deal of problems arose in the field of liberalisation, such as usury prices and poor working conditions, which has led to the gradual reintroduction of more rules. However, Sweden still has one of the world's most liberalised taxi markets. This poses some problems; according to the Competition Authority, for example, the extent of tax evasion in the industry is significant. The establishment of so-called platform companies where drivers are connected to a digital platform has put pressure on prices, but this has been done at the price of questionable tax schemes. The Left Party believes that we need to get to grips with this. Regarding the liberalisation of the taxi market in general, the Left Party was not behind it when it was implemented, and we believe that there is a need to review further regulation of the taxi market, not least in relation to working conditions. It is clear from the Taxi Traffic Act and the Swedish Transport Agency's regulations on taxi services that revenue from each journey must be stated in the taxi meter at the end of the journey and that the customer must be offered a taximeter receipt at the end of the journey. There are taxi companies in Sweden that use parallel accounting systems where the taxi driver can account for a lower amount in the car's taximeter than in the company's internal system. This system is often linked to a company headquartered abroad where the real income is accounted for. In these cases, the customer may receive a verification showing the real cost of the journey. This verification is perceived to be a cash receipt, but it is not printed out from the car's taximeter, and the amount is in many cases different from that stated in the taximeter. This means that the customer does not notice the cheating. This means that companies that provide such parallel systems enable a systematic tax evasion in Sweden by transferring income data via emptying centres to the Swedish Tax Agency is misleading and the revenue in reality is higher than reported. The consequence of this is that significant amounts of tax are withheld from the Swedish State. The Taxi Association estimates that 700 million SEK per year will be left unaccounted for only in Stockholm. In addition to the fact that the state needs the money for our common welfare, this means a severe distortion of competition with taxi companies based in Sweden. Moreover, it does something about tax morality when people see that some get away without doing right. It is therefore important for several reasons to curb fraud and for the government to come back with proposals for measures to prevent taxi companies with parallel accounting systems from circumventing the requirement for revenue recognition and proper cash receipts. It is also important to introduce measures to ensure that taxi drivers' taxi licences are checked frequently and regularly at a controlled time interval. Today, companies can decide for themselves how often they control their drivers' licences and do not have to account for the time interval, which means that there may be drivers without a valid licence that are still linked to a larger company and continue to drive taxis. It's a matter of customer security. Furthermore, I would also like to point out that it is important to see that the working conditions of taxi drivers have deteriorated significantly and in many cases are even bad, which is, of course, totally unacceptable. The Left Party will come back to the issue. I'm changing the subject and going on to talk about the combi directive. The 1992 EU directive on common rules for certain forms of combined transport of goods between Member States, the so-called Combined Transport Directive, contains rules on cross-border combined transport. Today, the combined directive has been transposed into Swedish law by the CTR. The Left considers that the purpose of the directive was commendable because it would promote the increased transport of goods by rail or water rather than by road. This has not been the case, however, and no clear environmental impact has been demonstrated. The combined transport directive is unclear and complex, which means that it is difficult to verify that individual lorry transport is actually carried out in accordance with the regulatory framework. Instead, the combined directive as it stands has contributed to increasingly unhealthy competition and social dumping in the haulage sector. In practice, less well-calculated carriers from other EU countries carry on regular activities in Sweden with low wages and poor working conditions, as the combined directive allows them to get around the cabotage rules. The distortion of competition resulting from this and the exploitation of workers make the current situation totally unacceptable. The combi directive is not only ineffective but has opened the door to gusts and arcs and the exploitation of people. The Left Party welcomes the efforts made to control cabotage. That is something that we have been pushing for a long time and that we are also allocating additional resources to in our budget. At EU level, negotiations are currently under way on a large package of changes in the transport sector, the so-called mobility package. We have hopes that the new rules will improve things, including the combined directive, and will evaluate them gradually. The effectiveness of the new rules depends, of course, on the control of subsequent ones. However, we do not really know when the new laws and rules may be in place – it is still unclear – or how they will change the combi directive. The problem of unfair competition and the exploitation of people on our roads is acute. We therefore believe that the current combined directive should be scrapped and that the government should work for it in the EU. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by pointing out that there is no such thing as free or free shipping. There's always someone paying. It could be the drivers, the seafarers, the environment, the climate and so on. But it's not free to transport goods.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-75	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has always been a trading nation, and it is trade that creates our welfare. During the Viking period and until the 19th century it was shipping that accounted for the large volumes of goods both within the kingdom and between countries, i.e. in foreign trade. During the 19th century the railway grew and took over the large volumes within the country, and later in the 20th century it was the truck that became the most important mode of transport for goods within Sweden. At the same time as the modes of transport have changed and developed and trade has increased, our welfare has improved. Without proper transport, we will not be able to preserve and develop future welfare. We Christian Democrats are therefore in favour of international trade agreements and the free movement of goods, services and persons. But if this freedom is to work, it is important that the haulage industry works on a level playing field. We therefore want the regulations within the European Union to be harmonised. We do not believe that Sweden's hauliers should suffer from tougher rules or penalties than road hauliers in other countries. On the contrary, constant efforts must be made to ensure that the rules are as much as possible equivalent throughout the EU. Mr President, I would like to It is also important that we ensure that the rules that exist are complied with. More traffic police, greater coordination between our and the EU authorities, better control at our customs offices and the installation of alcohol tests at borders are examples of areas where we need to improve. It is not okay for our hauliers to be exposed to unfair competition when there are rules that we have already decided on. It is not enough for us to introduce new rules and increase control if we are not at the same time prepared to review the sanctions. Generally speaking, sanctions should be equated between international and national road hauliers, and the authorities should be given more opportunity than at present to trample vehicles that violate the laws and regulations in force. We Christian Democrats also believe that the length of time that a vehicle may be trampled on should be extended so that foreign road hauliers choose to pay the fines and penalties they incur if they do not comply with the Swedish rules. At the same time, it is not enough for us to talk only about the problems that arise in international transport. We must make it easier for the Swedish industry. In our opinion, there are several measures that will improve our opportunities to develop the Swedish haulage industry. Faster approval of BK4 roads allows us to work with longer and heavier vehicles. Electrification of our major roads enables us to achieve better and more environmentally friendly transport. Mr President, I would like to The industry is probably one of Sweden's most important industries if we are to continue to be a trading nation, and without trade we are not in a position to develop the welfare that we all take for granted. Therefore, minor regulatory problems, fair conditions between national and international hauliers and modernisation of the haulage industry are necessary if Sweden is to continue to be the fine country as it is. Mr President, I would like to We're more and more connected. Our children and young people have friends around the world that they communicate with via different digital platforms. We probably spend more time together than ever, even if it happens via fast emails and comments in text messages and online. At the same time, we humans are social beings. All these relationships create a need to meet, which means that the need for vehicle transport will remain even if we do more and more via the network. The taxi industry is therefore, among other things, an important industry that facilitates transport for us as people. At the same time, it is an industry in great change. New companies and services are emerging that challenge the traditional taxi industry. From a Christian Democrat point of view, we are trying to face this in two different ways. We are in favour of digitalisation and new mobile services, but we want it to be orderly. We want to see a review of the regulations applicable in the taxi industry. If we can make it easier for the riders, we'll do it. We want more controls to be carried out in order to tackle black taxis and other unfair competition that harms the serious hauliers. We also want to review the regulatory framework for taxi identification so that more groups that are currently unable to obtain a licence can obtain it. Mr President, I would like to I support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation number one.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-86	Mr President, I would like to Today we are dealing with the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, Professional Transport and Taxi. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. Professional and taxi services are two different sectors that have a lot in common. It is, of course, about the transport of goods and goods or people, and transport is fundamentally important in the bloodstream of a functioning society. They also share the fact that there are lucrative activities, some of which are geared to exploiting others. It's never okay. It should never pay to cheat. Every organised society must ensure that there are rules and that the rules are complied with. That is an obligation for us in this House. It is our duty to prioritise order and order. Those of us who are involved in transport policy and ultimately in professional transport issues were given perhaps the very best Christmas present in December, when the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers reached an agreement on order and order in the European road transport market.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-91	It means that no exceptions should be made for so-called combined transport, i.e. transport that includes rail or shipping during the journey. All trucks shall be equipped with smart tachographs that have satellite navigation systems that allow for regulatory control.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-94	The driver must return home at least every three weeks and the vehicle at least every eight weeks. The consequences are that if you conduct regular domestic traffic, you must register and pay tax in Sweden, and Swedish wages and working conditions must also apply to temporary domestic traffic. This is a great success for all of us who have fought for order and order on Swedish roads.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-97	In this context, I would like to pay great tribute to the Stefan Lövven Government, headed by the Minister for Infrastructure. I would like to extend a great deal of thanks to MEPs Jens Nilsson and Marita Marita, who fought incredibly hard, and finally also to Johan Danielsson. For almost three and a half years, the Council of Ministers, the European Parliament and the Commission have negotiated and dealt with several parts, and at last we agree. What remains now is that Parliament confirms the agreement. This is most likely to happen in mid-May. There is a strength in these matters in Sweden, because on the whole we actually agree. In the Transport Committee we agree that order and order should apply on Swedish roads, and that is great for the Swedish part. But one is rather surprised when one hears above all the Moderates debate in this House today. Not least, the tone may be unnecessarily high. Mr President, I would like to Let me remind the House and the audience of the fact that both Moderates and Christian Democrats at European level are fighting back. The interests of rogue companies are put first. In fact, this is not just embarrassing – it is hypocrisy to the Swedish people. I assume that both Moderates and Christian Democrats will ensure that Swedish MEPs representing your parties also vote in favour of the proposal. Let us not once again be forced to note that you are speaking with a split tongue on matters of order and order. You say you stand behind this at home, but when it really comes to it, you stand on the side of shit companies – companies that do not stand for healthy competition and do not live up to decent working conditions. It is in May. To the evidence, and stop being hypocritical! Let me also remind the House, Mr President, that the Moderates have been in executive power for eight years. They led the Department of Infrastructure for eight years, and we did not see very many reforms in this area. What we saw above all were changes in the police system, reductions which have meant that the control authorities have actually fallen. Mr President, I would like to I am incredibly proud of what we Social Democrats have achieved in government. We have introduced two-step squeezing. We have imposed fines, and we have strengthened the client responsibility in order to get things right on Swedish roads. We have developed a national good strategy in which we also announced the need for a better control system. Controls are currently being carried out by different authorities, and we need to have a comprehensive picture of the extent to which the controls are carried out and how they are carried out. For this reason, the Government appointed an investigation last autumn, which will in the long run present proposals for improved measures for more people to comply with the rules. We consistently stand by it that it should never pay to cheat and to evade the fair terms. Cooperation between authorities must work better and be given higher priority. The main task of the investigation is therefore to identify how this can be done. In this case, the police authorities are very central. If the rules governing professional activities are to have the governing effect that they aim at, it is very important that control activities work. Through increased funding, decided here in the Riksdag, the competence of the Police Authority has increased. We now also see the effect of the additions by reporting an increased number of cases to the Swedish Transport Agency. Special resources have been allocated to bring new directives for flying inspection, and we have ensured that the training of inspectors has come about. Soon all inspectors will meet the general requirements of the EU for equivalent training for inspectors. Almost everyone's ready. This should be done in the spring, so we are in full phase. It is important that we have the same rules at European level. While I am talking about the inspectors, Mr President-, as I mentioned last year when we discussed these issues, I am still both concerned and appalled by the Swedish democrats' call for car inspectors to carry arms and be able to use force in the performance of their duties. A car inspector, Mr President, is a civilian employee in the police force, usually recruited from the car inspection, who works, among other things, to control professional traffic and investigate things such as driving and rest times, cargo, overweight and illegal cabotage. The car inspectors have the right to decide on certain charges and to impose sanctions, such as driving bans. This is their specific competence: vehicle competence. It is the police who have the skills and training to carry weapons. The continuing task of the car inspectors must be to control the transports and vehicles, not to shoot at people! I am extremely worried about the direction of the Swedish democrats. Another part of professional traffic is the taxi industry. It also needs to be seen. The Swedish Parliament therefore decided in accordance with the Government proposal A new category of taxi services that all taxi services, including the new category, should be easily controlled by authorities, especially the Swedish Tax Agency. This is a step forward that will make it more difficult to cheat and that competition can take place on a level playing field. The new rules will enter into force in two stages: 1 September this year and 1 January next year. This is good. I believe that we in Parliament should carefully follow what that means. A great deal is happening, and within the framework of social change it is happening very quickly. The Riksdag must keep up with this. Politics must keep up with the changes that are taking place. There are, of course, problems in the taxi industry that we must continue to address. Black taxi is nothing new, but the methods for using black taxis are changing today. The problems are growing in social media, in Facebook groups and so on. Here we need to have rules that allow everyone to help. The digital platforms used to organise illegal and uncontrolled taxi operations also need to be involved in taking responsibility to ensure that this does not occur. On the whole, therefore, it is important that we keep up with this. Perhaps the most important thing is to emphasise that order and fair and fair competition should apply on our roads. These are the key words. It should never pay to cheat.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-114	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by adjusting some of the statements made by Mr Lindberg in his speech. First of all, it was the Alliance Government that put forward proposals on fines, blame and client liability. Since then nothing has happened on the part of the government except that it has increased from 24 to 36 hours in terms of the clamping. But the clamping still does not happen in real life, that is, until fees and other things are paid. Today the truck can roll away after 36 hours without doing the right thing. The second part I want to adjust, Mr President, concerns Teres Lindberg's location check. Even if she has a high tone, it's pretty low. We Moderates welcomed this package in Europe, contrary to what your representative in the European Parliament writes in Expressen. We will vote in favour of this. With a little better monitoring of the situation as regards what is happening in the European Parliament, we would have avoided that discussion in this House. Mr President, I would like to In fact, the arguments do not improve simply because they raise the tone. I would like answers when the competitiveness inquiry, commissioned by Parliament's Transport Committee and the Riksdag in 2017, comes. In the course of the journey, you have increased taxes on diesel and reduced competitiveness. You can't handle the checks out on the road. We've ordered a competitiveness investigation, and it's not delivered. Soon it's been three years, and we haven't seen it yet. So my question to Teres Lindberg is: When will the competitiveness inquiry come?
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-117	Mr President, I would like to You don't stop a tt surprised when you hear Sten Bergheden. Perhaps the funniest thing was when he said that ordering responsibility was an initiative of a bourgeois government. It was presented in a bill that was decided here in the Riksdag 2018. I find it hard to see that it was presented before 2014. At least that equation doesn't add up for me. Sten Bergheden is quite right in the fact that the bourgeois government was given announcements about both classing and ordering responsibility but did not actually deliver in time. No decision and no proposal for any of this came forward during your majority term. They came out afterwards. The preparatory work for the first part of the penalty fees was done by a bourgeois government, and we decided to go ahead with it even though we knew it was not enough. That is why we have gone forward with another step, and we have decided on it again. Sten Bergheden should know about this. When it comes to the European Parliament, it is embarrassing to hear Sten Bergheden's hypocritical. Just go to the Minutes and see how you voted last time. You voted against, or you did not take part in the decision. You had Members who were present at the vote but did not vote. They abstained – they did not vote at all! I find it embarrassing. Make sure that your Members of the European Parliament actually vote in favour of this proposal this May! It is very important that we get the roads in order, and you cannot stand in this House and say that you are in favour of the Swedish roads when you do not follow it up with your own Members of the European Parliament. It's hypocrisy, Sten Bergheden! Do your homework!
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-122	Mr President, I would like to I do not know o m Teres Lindberg listened to my speech, but I clearly said that we will welcome the package, and we vote greenly in the European Parliament. Now I hope that information has come to light. As far as the second part is concerned, just read the bill drawn up by the Alliance Government on fines, complaints and client liability. On this point too, Teres is therefore wrong. We presented these elements and the decision was taken in October 2014. It's easy to check the facts here. Perhaps it would have raised the level of the debate if Teres Lindberg had done so. I asked a question about developing a competitiveness inquiry. It's been three years now. You have set up several investigations into a lot of different things, but you have ignored the Transport Committee's announcement that a competitiveness inquiry should be set up. Instead, during the journey you have increased the diesel tax. You have said no to the Moderates' proposal to reduce diesel tax, which for a haulage company that rolls 200 000 km a year would mean 60 000 – 80 000 SEK in lower tax per year. Instead, you have increased taxes on Swedish haulage and reduced competitiveness. You're clearly refusing to set up a competitiveness inquiry. My question is simple and clear: when will it arrive? The representative of the Government Party should be able to respond to this when we have a debate on road haulage issues here in Parliament today. And how do you strengthen Swedish haulage industry and entrepreneurship through higher diesel taxes – how can it benefit Swedish haulage industry and our companies? Once again, we will vote greenly in favour of this in the European Parliament. Let's hope we don't have to discuss this any further.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-128	Mr President, I would like to I hope I can take Sten Bergheden at his word. But having seen how you have voted in the European Parliament in the past, it is not without being a little worried or even rather very worried. I would like to say that the government is actually delivering. The announcement was about setting up a study to increase competitiveness. This is, of course, what order and order on the roads are all about. These are, on the one hand, the right conditions for those who work in the industry and, on the other hand, the right conditions for entrepreneurs. You can't compete when things look like they do today. In the almost six years that we have had government power, we have introduced complaints and penalties. We have strengthened the client responsibility and decided on a national good strategy, and now a study was last set up to get the control activities in professional traffic in order. In fact, all of this is about increasing competitiveness and ensuring that there are fair conditions both among companies and among employees who work and drive trucks. So I do not really know what it is that Sten Bergheden is fumbling after here, because if there is something we have done in contrast to the former Reinfeldt government, it is actually delivering on point after point. We agree on this. I cannot stop being surprised at Sten Bergheden's speech. First 5 minutes and 15 seconds into the speech, Sten Bergheden mentions a single moderate reform, and it is about reducing diesel tax! This does not increase Swedish competitiveness. What increases Swedish competitiveness is a level playing field. It is not about reducing taxes, it is about compliance with the rules and we have the authorities that deliver it.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-133	Mr President, I would like to I must say that there is a very high tone in this debate. It worries me a little that this method of debate is being used when we discuss one of the biggest problems we have on the road, namely that the serious Swedish and foreign haulage industry is being competed out by foam companies and criminal activities. I would also like to respond to Teres Lindberg's statement about the car inspectors. This is not about inspection techniques that have had to put on an overall and go out on the roads and inspect cars. There are quite high demands on car inspectors. It is quite typical for the Social Democrats to go out with tough arguments without even reading what is in the motion that we have raised. We don't mean that the car inspector should have a gun with him when he walks out the door and starts shooting at people. The claim alone is extremely strange, especially from someone who represents the government party! What it's all about is getting more staff who are well trained and that they should be able to protect themselves and other people at a checkpoint. I've been working out on the road for 12 years and I know what this is all about. You have no idea what it is for a vehicle that comes against you, if the people in the vehicle are armed and what the personnel and other civilians on the ground will do if they cannot defend themselves. The statement made by Teres Lindberg is extremely strange. Read our exercise and understand what it says! Maybe that'll make it clear.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-137	Mr President, I would like to I think these issues are both serious and serious. Perhaps I should apologise if I have had a high tone, but it may also be related to how others have expressed themselves. But I don't want you to take it personally, Thomas Morell. The car inspectors are inspectors and are often recruited from the car inspection. In the conversations I have had with the police, I have been told that the car inspectors receive two weeks of training to get the extra knowledge needed to do checks. There is a huge difference compared to a police officer who has at least two years of education. There is a huge difference in professional competence in our society between those who should be able to carry arms openly and those who should not be able to do so. A car inspector's main task must be to check vehicles. Then there are police officers who can also be car inspectors and thus have double training. I welcome that, and if you have the competence to be both, it is fine. But for me it is incredibly important that those who carry weapons openly in the performance of their duties should also have the necessary training to do so. It's about psychology and a lot of other things. One should know how to handle a weapon, how to behave in a crisis situation and so on. But that someone with two weeks of education should be allowed to walk around with a peck and also get to practice violence in the ministry I don't think is okay. In fact, I don't think the car inspectors think so either.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-141	Mr President, I would like to If the honourable Member looks this way, she'll see a former car inspector. It wasn't two weeks of training. First of all, the requirement was four years of technical training and full driving licence and experience from the business. That was the entry requirement. To this was added training in police activities. It was self-protection and much more. Before I finished, it had been over a year. This was the subject of investigative training. It is not a question of hanging a weapon on a person who has an education in one or a year and a half, but of being able to have the protection required when on the road. Of course, everyone must undergo the same control and training in order to be armed. It is not only policemen who are armed, but also customs officials and security guards, and if you look carefully in this house you also see armed people. I think that the debate has been somewhat biased. What we are really talking about here today is how we are going to manage to protect the healthy haulage industry on our roads. There hasn't been much. When I left the traffic police in 2007, I started working towards the policy of change, but the only change we have seen is that the number of control officers has decreased. I was sitting last night having conversations with old colleagues, and it's still going down. There are no extra funds available to train and bring in new ones, either on the police side or on the car inspector's side. You move in cops to measure lasers, blow motorists and check driving licences, but what we're discussing here is commercial traffic, and that requires a lot more.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-145	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that Thomas Morell does not carry weapons, either in this Chamber or as a car inspector. I think that this system should continue to be as it is, because the main focus for car inspectors must be to control the vehicles. That's where they have their knowledge, and that's what they're supposed to do. They're not supposed to shoot at either drivers or cars, they're supposed to check vehicles. Those who are to carry weapons are those who are trained to do this, and it is the police in that case. It is an activity that takes place in collaboration. There are both police officers and inspectors out there doing this type of checks. In fact, I do not understand the problem, but rather I am concerned about which society the Swedish Democrats are aiming for.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-147	Mr President, I would like to The commitment to these issues is clear. The report deals with motion proposals relating to commercial transport and taxis. In order to maintain safety but also fair competition in professional transport, common rules are important and these are complied with. Here there are challenges in both heavy commercial traffic and the taxi industry. I am pleased that both the government and the committee share the view that it is important to address these challenges. Professional traffic has shortcomings, including in keeping prescribed speeds, loading correctly and safely, and in following driving and rest times. Even for those who follow the rules, it is problematic that there are many drivers who do not follow common rules and give the industry a bad reputation. The drivers who comply with the rules are also affected by the traffic hazard caused by drivers who do not comply with the regulations. Although the Swedish Transport Agency has noted improvements in technical characteristics and cargo securing, it has also seen deterioration in speed compliance, which is one of the most important measures to be safe in traffic. As regards driving and rest time rules, the Swedish Transport Agency noted that the Swedish drivers have become somewhat better, while foreign hauliers have less compliance. This, of course, leads to unhealthy competition. Professional transport is an area characterised by its often cross-border nature. Therefore, it is essential that action on relevant rules and good compliance is taken at EU level. Sweden has been very active in the discussion of the various mobility packages, and only in December was a preliminary agreement reached on the parts relating to mobility packages 1, which my colleague Teres Lindberg mentioned earlier.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-153	We know that money is important in these contexts, and the government has allocated special funds: SEK 25 million per year for 2017 – 2020 to counteract illegal cabotage operations and SEK 10.7 million from 2017 to develop work on flying inspections. In addition, the regulation letter for the Police Authority has required the police to further develop the controls on cabotage transport. The government is active in this area. In this context, I would also like to raise the issue of sustainable transport. Further measures are needed in order to achieve the necessary conversion. The Green Party wants to introduce a distance-based tax on lorry traffic, known as road wear tax, which equalises the differences between Swedish and foreign hauliers. The tax should be lower where alternatives are lacking and steer towards more environmentally friendly trucks. We want to see more goods by rail and by sea. This is an important part of the transformation, but then the competitive environment for rail and maritime freight transport needs to be strengthened in comparison with road haulage. At the same time, heavy trucks need to become more fossil-free. Here we have to work on several measures, and I want to highlight the potential of biogas in particular, although there is more and more talk about electrification. There are now good opportunities to operate heavy-duty vehicles with gas, without heavy batteries or the development of continuous charging infrastructure. This is a measure that we can implement today, here and now. Many cities today choose to switch to electrified urban traffic, but for more long-distance bus transport and trucks biogas is excellent as fuel. The report also deals with taxi services. My view of taxi is that it should be seen as part of public transport, a complement at times when the bus does not go and in places where there is no line or stop. As the report states, the taxi market is changing, so the government states that the regulatory review must take place continuously. New mobility services are coming. They are interesting, but it is important that they bring both ecological and social sustainability. Facilitating the combination of different transport so that a car does not have to be something that each person owns is good, but it is important that this type of new service does not undermine job security or lead to increased road traffic. We know that if you make it more attractive to choose taxis or equivalents, for example, there is a risk that it will compete in areas where it would have been possible to drive a collective transport, which would have been more energy efficient and climate-smart. Technology must simply benefit our interests. In conclusion, I would like to say that sustainability, both ecologically and socially, must be the guiding principle in the work of commercial transport and taxis. Order and order must apply on Swedish roads.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-160	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the same question that I put to the representative of the Social Democrats. It is about the competitiveness inquiry and that the Riksdag has decided on an announcement to produce an investigation on competitiveness. This was done, among other things, when it comes to agriculture in Sweden, and then they went through what the situation looked like for Swedish agriculture versus foreign competition. At this point, we want something for the haulage industry that is similar to the Competitiveness Investigation, so that we can compare regulations but also taxes, fees and other costs around. I think that is reasonable before we discuss moving forward with new taxes such as road wear taxes and other things mentioned by Emma Berginger in her speech. It is reasonable that we first establish the base – where we stand in competitiveness compared to other countries in the field of haulage. We are dependent on trucks, whether they will run on biogas, electricity, hydrogen or diesel in the future. We must ensure that competitiveness is maintained until we can change the focus on fuels. Mr President, I would like to When will a competitiveness inquiry come, and when will there be a tax increase? The Green Party, the Social Democrats and several other parties said no to lower the diesel tax for the haulage industry and rural areas by 1 krona. This means that Swedish hauliers pay much more than foreign hauliers. How to strengthen competitiveness with higher fuel taxes Is not the risk that we are now being run out of illegal transport, which, moreover, brings its own diesel into the country? So my questions are: when will a competitiveness inquiry, and will competitiveness really be strengthened with higher taxes?
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-164	Mr President, I would like to Does Sweden's inability to change and become a fossil-free welfare country really strengthen its competitiveness? That's my question. With Sten Bergheden's question, it becomes very clear what is the priority of the Moderates. Moderates' priority in this context is reduced tax on diesel. Reduced tax on diesel is not conducive to climate change. It is nothing that benefits our long-term competitiveness. It is therefore very important that we continue to work on including the real costs of traffic – costs for the environment, for safety and for healthcare – in the charges that we impose on traffic. That is why, as the Green Party said here, we would like to have some form of distance-based tax on heavy traffic. It is important because it is actually a wear and tear on the roads. This traffic is burdening the roads. It is reasonable, then, that it should also contribute to this infrastructure, just as rail transport actually contributes to the development of the railways by means of the infrastructure charges imposed. There's nothing strange. It can be said that it is primarily diesel that Sten Bergheden focuses on. He wants to increase the competitiveness of the haulage industry in the short term but does not look at what could be beneficial for the planet and for human health in the long term. This is very typical of moderate reasoning.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-168	Mr President, I would like to I note that I do not receive an answer on the subject of a competitiveness inquiry. Three years have passed, and nothing has happened. Other things are being investigated and planned for new taxes in the government that will not strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish haulage industry and our companies. Mr President, I would like to It goes without saying that there is wear and tear on our roads. We drive products into the country, and we drive products out of the country. That is what creates our prosperity in this country and creates income, so that we can have it the way we want it in this country and so that our companies can remain and do not have to move abroad closer to the rest of Europe. It is quite unreasonable for our businesses up here in the northern part of Europe, which is sparsely populated and with a large rural area, to have the highest taxes in this context when we are so dependent on both cars and trucks. It will be a distorted competition which is extreme in this situation and which puts our companies at risk of losing jobs and competitiveness. I am surprised that Emma Berginger and the Green Party are still pushing for a further increase in taxes in an already highly competitive haulage market. How is the environment better if our own haulage industry and our own companies are knocked out while the haulage industry from other countries can take low-rated diesel with it from below Europe and drive up here? How does it improve the climate for others to drive on cheaper diesel from Europe and our own hauliers to compete through higher fuel taxes? This is unreasonable. We can't go that way.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-172	Mr President, I would like to Sten Bergheden raises the question of a competitiveness inquiry to two individual members. It is true that they represent the parties in government positions. But it might have been more appropriate if Sten Bergheden had contacted the Ministry of Infrastructure and asked his question. Nevertheless, Sten Bergheden's question clearly shows what is the priority of the Moderates in this context. The Moderates' priority is cheap diesel. It should be cheap for companies and for hauliers to continue to destroy the environment. On behalf of the Green Party, we are very clear that we want to see a change. We want Sweden to be the first fossil-free welfare nation. Then we must work towards a shift in transport in line with the good strategy that the government has delivered, which stresses that we need to switch more heavy goods transport from truck to rail and to shipping because it is more energy efficient. We also need to see a shift in truck traffic, so that we get a more electrified vehicle fleet and so that we can also run on biogas, for example. Then it is important that we strengthen competitiveness both between different fuels, so that we benefit the more sustainable fuels, and between different modes of transport. It is in this context that it is important to have a distance-based tax that equalises competition between the different modes of transport. That is the priority of the Green Party. As has been said, Sten Bergheden's and Moderaten's priority is that they want to see cheaper truck transport running on unsustainable diesel.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-175	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to listen to the debate on the direction of improving the environment. I understand Emma Berginger's commitment to improving the environment. Transport is an environmental burden; we can agree on that. The problem for us in Sweden has become that we get a large number of actors in the transport market who are not doing well. It has removed the conditions for Swedish haulage companies to pursue a more environmentally friendly focus on their operations. They simply do not get paid for the work they do. I often talk to hauliers, and I have a fairly broad network of contacts in the haulage industry. You simply do not dare to invest in the new technology, because you will not get the assignments. Someone else crawls in and drives significantly cheaper. Then we are talking about foreign operators who drive on fuel that is smuggled into Sweden. It's old Eastern diesel. It's not even the MK1 we're talking about. The honourable Member can sometimes amuse himself by standing by the exhaust pipe and smelling when a Bulgarian or Romanian car starts. The sulphur scent comes quite directly into the nose. The Swedish haulage industry was once the railway's largest customer. The railway was used for the long and heavy transports. It is not profitable to have goods on a truck and drive from Skåne up to Norrland. I would like to ask Emma Berginger a question. Will the Green Party be a driving force in the government so that we can increase the controls on the roads to curb the cheating and those who do not comply with the rules that exist?
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-179	Mr President, I would like to I believe that this debate has made it clear that there is a great deal of commitment on the part of government parties to compliance with the rules of heavy transport and professional transport. It is an issue that I do not worry about the government not running, watching and being active in. Thomas Morell points out that companies that are not serious are a problem for those companies that actually run a serious transport and logistics industry. This is an issue that both the Green Party and the Social Democrats take seriously. We think it is very important to have good compliance with the rules and to have clear controls. That is why we are pushing these issues, not least at European level. I think it is very important that we also make it more transparent what transport actually costs when it comes to the environment and other things. There are no free transports, as was said here before. This needs to be clarified in a more transparent way. For example, in one of its reports, IVA has relatively recently put forward proposals on how to make it more transparent for those who buy a transport or a product, so that one actually sees that the transport costs and has an environmental burden. The demand for rail is increasing, and more needs to be done to meet that demand. We need more tracks to meet the demand for rail freight. These are some of the things the Green Party wants to do to strengthen the sustainable transport industry in Sweden.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-184	Mr President, I would like to These are very fine words from the government about this; you do this and you do that. However, I stand out there in reality quite often and meet both drivers and hauliers, and there we see the opposite direction. There are an increasing number of rogue, unhealthy and illegal activities that knock away the bones of serious companies – and they can do so completely undisturbed, because there is no one taking them in the ear. There is no control activity to talk about. Let me give you an example: 36 railway wagons arrive in Skåne a day. It's double carriages, so it says 72 trailers on top. They'll be lifted off and put on the ground, and then there'll be tractors and they'll pick them up. 72 Romanian or Bulgarian cars pull the trailers up to Stockholm instead of standing on the train and being pulled on the railway – just because it gets cheaper. In other words, there is another economic activity alongside that of running the goods, and that is what we need to be clear about. There is a connection with other criminal activities that make it profitable even though you don't charge more than SEK 80 - 90 for transportation. For a Swedish car, where the driver has a collective agreement and where taxes and charges are paid, the cost is far above that money if it is to go together. This is the problem, and those who use this type of transport indirectly contribute to – sponsoring – criminal activities. That is why controls must be made clear on the way, and we must have clear customer responsibility so that we can overcome the problem at some point. I sincerely hope that Emma Berginger will be a driving force in the government in order for us to have strengthened controls along the way.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-187	Mr President, I would like to Emma Berginger is a Member of Parliament and is therefore not a member of the government, but I will definitely work towards the government that my party is part of so that we can have a clearer compliance with the rules in professional traffic. As I said in my speech, the government has taken a number of measures. There has been a commitment at EU level and the investigation into monitoring of control activities has been set up. Funds have also been set aside to combat illegal cabotage, for example. These are examples of what the government is doing to actually overcome the problems of unfair competition that we see on our roads. I have to say, Mr President, that we are working at policy level when we are in this House in Parliament. We have to work with laws, rules and cooperation at European level. We Members of Parliament are not on the road to control. As Mr Teres did in the past, I note that Thomas Morell's main proposal in this area is that he himself should be allowed to carry arms in his role as a car inspector. I find that a very worrying development. The reason why Thomas Morell was allowed to carry a weapon was that you don't know what you're facing. We have a variety of professionals in society who do not know what they are facing. People who work in cafes don't know if the customer who comes in is buying coffee lattes or robbing the café. Healthcare professionals in our emergency hospitals do not know if patients or others are coming in who will threaten them. There are a variety of areas where staff do not know what they are facing, such as school teachers. But even there, the Swedish Democrats really want to see everyone carry arms. That is not the development the Green Party wants to see.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-191	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking Emma for a very good speech. It is always fun to listen to each other and to the commitment that exists, and it is my firm opinion that there is a great deal of commitment in the Committee on Transport and Tourism. I particularly appreciate the commitment to environmental policy. That is also where my questions arise, because I think most of us agree that there must be a change – that we must have a better functioning infrastructure, which also takes environmental considerations into account. It must of course take social and economic considerations into account, but it must also take environmental considerations into account. However, there are some decisions that have been taken in this House that make this transition difficult; it is not more than a few weeks since we voted on nuclear power and landed in a situation that will make the production of electricity more difficult in a situation where we are all talking about electrification. If we have a commitment, aspire to change and agree on the idea that we need to make changes, the decisions must also go in the same direction. We have another such decision, which is actually moved from here – perhaps even moved and taken in such a way that it does not comply with applicable law – and that applies to Preemraff. There we are once again in this: we agree that we want a better environmental policy and agree that we want the truck fleet to change, and then we have companies that are switching away from rock oil and over to forest materials, where even the courts have said that they are allowed to expand, and after the Court has said that, it is being lifted to the government. With all due respect for the fact that the two parties representing the government here today are not represented by ministers, we must be allowed to ask questions. We're passionate about conversion. When will it be announced that Preemraff will start making environmentally friendly diesel?
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-194	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for the praise that Magnus Jacobsson started with about my commitment, not least in the environmental field. I also appreciate that Magnus Jacobsson asks his questions professionally and seems to be involved in environmental issues. At the same time, I must stress that it is very important to look at the whole issue of nuclear power. We must, of course, switch to a fossil-free society, but that transition should not be allowed to take place at the expense of other environmental issues. That is why we need to ensure that we have a switch towards 100% renewable energy. This is where it is now becoming very clear that, with the energy agreement that was made and for which there has been a broad consensus in the past, we have taken steps towards 100% renewable energy – and that the market on its own initiative actually chooses to phase out nuclear power. We must bear in mind all the aspects of nuclear energy in terms of safety and uranium mining. This also applies to the final storage, which is not solved. There are a lot of questions about nuclear power. Nuclear power is not a renewable resource and does not contribute to positive environmental developments. We need to look more broadly at the issue than just what causes or does not cause CO2 emissions. As far as Preemraff is concerned, I can only say that it is a matter of trial. That's all I have to say about it right now.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-198	I would like to remind the debaters that we are discussing professional traffic and taxis. Magnus Jacobsson introduced energy policy, and I allowed Emma Berginger to comment on it, but perhaps the last two lines could be devoted to commercial transport and taxi.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-199	Mr President, I would like to What is my question is how to make this commercial traffic work if we do not have working fuels, and that is why I asked the two questions. Like I said, they're connected so we can get our fuels out. However, I thank you for the speeches that have been made and for the answers that have been given.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-200	Mr President, I would like to That was a legitimate reminder from the President. I can only say that the things that the Green Party is doing in order to get a change also concern, for example, the climate issue. We make it possible to invest both in developing charging infrastructure and in building new facilities to produce more biogas – and, for example, to upgrade biogas to liquid biogas, so that we get more use of it in our commercial traffic.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-202	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 4 concerning measures for the control and supervision of the haulage industry. In 1990 the taxi market was liberalised, and in a number of areas this has not been very successful. This has led to large variations in pricing, and we see how the quality in many places has deteriorated. I've received several statements from friends that the taxi they ordered never showed up. This has also affected myself. If you have a train or a flight to fit, it creates a great insecurity if you can't trust that the ordered taxi will show up. Even in this industry there should be some kind of travel guarantee. The competitive situation between different drivers and companies sometimes leads to rather unpleasant situations where drivers openly stand and scream and argue with each other in front of the eyes of travellers. This has led, among other things, to airports and train stations set up boom systems for the admission of only certain companies. This phenomenon did not exist at the time when taxi operations were regulated. Another truly tragic phenomenon is the direct distasteful exploitation of labour. We get testimony that drivers do not get their salary and that they are forced to sleep in their cars, get wages far below contracts and drive far too long hours of work. When transport service activities have been submitted for tender, we have seen in several places how too low tenders have led to companies going bankrupt. To try to achieve sufficient profitability, drivers are paid well below contract, and sometimes pass 12 to 14 hours. In addition to the unethical and illegal use of staff, it is not safe for traffic. Mr President, I would like to The black taxi business is like a wet blanket over the taxi industry. In several locations, Facebook groups linked to black taxi operations have knocked out the legal taxi business. A conscious – or, for that matter, an unconscious – passenger using this type of service is not covered by the same protection as an ordinary taxi passenger in the event of an accident, robbery or sexual harassment, which is often linked to this illegal activity. In a search on Google, only a dozen cases will emerge in 2019 where both ordinary taxi drivers and black taxi drivers have been reported for having committed serious sexual assaults and rapes against female customers. This is totally unacceptable. We need to take a strong stance to deal with the black taxi business. In addition, the State is missing tax revenue. This is revenue needed for everything from welfare to road maintenance. The Swedish Democrats believe that a review of the regulatory framework governing professional taxi services is needed and that a stricter regulatory framework is needed to curb all types of black taxi operations. We also believe that more resources must go to the police to strengthen controls on both legal activities and, above all, illegal taxi operations. The serious taxi business is indeed in dire need of state support to knock off illegal activity. Mr President, I would like to Insecureness is spreading in society, and it is increasingly affecting professional drivers. Countless thefts and robberies are carried out in our rest areas, where drivers stopped to take their statutory and necessary night rest. It has even gone so far that automatic weapons have been used in these robberies. Should the hauliers need to armor their trucks? The Swedish Democrats have repeatedly called for strong measures to curb this crime. Responsibility for us decision-makers, and for the government in particular, weighs heavily. The trucks are often full of desirable goods for criminals, and the rest areas are often located far from the central location where the police cars are usually located. Not only is insecurity a problem, but it is often full in the rest areas along the major roads. This is a problem when the requirement to hold driving and rest times causes it if a driver does not fit in a rest area but may have to add another half hour or hour to the schedule to find a free space to park his vehicle. The state must take greater responsibility to offer both more rest places and safe rest places. Well-lit and camera-supervised rest areas in sufficient numbers had increased the safety of professional drivers. We also need more cops on the road. With more policemen, the risk of detection increases, as does the possibility of arresting the perpetrators. According to the Police Federation's figures, the Police Authority employed 30 339 people in 2018, 20 040 of which were police officers. This is a figure that has been at about the same level since 2010, when 20 292 police officers were employed. But during the same time, the number of police officers per inhabitant has fallen. In 2010, the police density was 216 per 100,000 inhabitants, but since then the figure has gradually fallen. Three years ago the number of 195 and 2018 was only slightly better, 196 police officers. Let us take into account the fact that serious crime has increased significantly over time. The Swedish Democrats have been working for more police in society throughout our time in Parliament, but only now does the government seem to have understood the problem. The government has promised 10,000 more police officers. It remains to be seen what will become of this promise – very many policemen choose to quit because they are dissatisfied with their salary and working conditions, while many chairs are empty in police training. Mr President, I would like to I would like to end with an appeal to all parties: let us help strengthen our police force! Sweden needs it. Sweden needs several thousand new police officers. Not only our professional drivers, but the whole community needs them. They are needed to give us back our security. Mr President, I would like to Let us help each other in this congregation!
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-219	Mr President, I would like to On average, men in Sweden still have higher wages than women, and on average, men in Sweden have better career development than women. But this is actually changing now. If we compare women and men who work for the same number of hours and who have the same education, the same age and the same profession, we now see that women have actually gone over in certain professions. It shows research by Nima Sanandaji. He notes, for example, that among senior IT managers women have 7% higher wages than men, and in the case of priests women have 4% higher wages than men. Overall, his research shows that women in 23 professions, or a total of 9% of all professions in Sweden, now actually have a higher salary than men. This is not a coincidence. Research and government public studies show that, among other things, the RUT deduction has made it possible to relieve unpaid domestic work and thus also enabled career development for women. It has also been shown that market competition and individualised wage setting in women-dominated professions, not least in welfare, have enabled women to develop wages. This combined, together with changing attitudes, means that we now see that gender equality in several areas in Sweden is actually moving in the right direction. But for us to be able to follow this trend in wages, we need statistics. That is why the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the Discrimination Act's demands for salary mapping, which we have to deal with here today, is so important. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that wage surveys have little effect on the wage differentials in Sweden, especially among small employers. At the same time, it is noted that the requirement for a salary survey involves an extensive administration, not least for many smaller companies. Therefore, we on the Moderates side are very much in favour of the recommendations that the National Audit Office makes very clear in its review of how legislation could be simplified in order to facilitate the administration of companies, that legislation could be adapted to the size of employers, and that the Mediation Institute should be tasked with following the pay gap between men and women also with the same employer. That is why we have chosen to reserve ourselves in the committee in favour of the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations. We see that there is every reason to take on board these recommendations and get them in place as soon as possible. I therefore support our reservation.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-227	Mr President, I would like to In this report, we are dealing with a letter from the Government, which in turn is based on a report from the National Audit Office called the Discrimination Act's demands for salary mapping – a blunt tool for reducing the gender pay gap. It demonstrates the need for the current legislation in this area to be reviewed. When I read the Swedish National Audit Office's report, I felt that it was just like this when I was working with salary surveys in a workplace. There is much to be said about what is mentioned in the report and which is important to address. It is not always we debate the reports of the National Audit Office that they generate debates in the Chamber. But we Christian Democrats believe that the Swedish National Audit Office has put forward proposals that the government should have taken seriously and also the majority of the committees should have listened to. That is not the case, however. That is why we have chosen to reserve ourselves in favour of a motion that we tabled last autumn. Mr President, I would like to The objective of a salary survey is to achieve equal pay for equal work. Economic equality is also something that we have as an overall gender equality goal in Sweden. Combating wage discrimination is an important part of combating discrimination in the labour market. One tool that is the responsibility of the employer is to continuously carry out a salary survey to see if you need to adjust unequal pay. Pay differentials remain, and the inexplicable remain at 4.4%. It is clear that this should be addressed. It is therefore important that employers have the right tools to detect, correct and prevent gender-related pay differentials. The pay gap between women and men has continuously decreased in the 21st century, which is gratifying. The legislation on salary mapping has been in place since 1994 and has been amended on various occasions, most recently in 2017. The Alliance government amended the law to reduce the administrative burden on small businesses, but unfortunately the Red Green Government changed back to previous requirements. During spring 2019, the Swedish National Audit Office presented its review of the salary survey. The effectiveness of the wage survey has been examined to combat inappropriate differences in pay and other employment conditions between women and men. The review shows that the pay survey, as the legislation currently stands, has a limited opportunity to influence the pay gap between men and women in the labour market. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, the requirement to document salary surveys had little or no effect on the pay gap. There were also problems with how the legislation works based on how it should be applied by employers. The Swedish National Audit Office therefore proposes to investigate whether the legislation on wage mapping can be better adapted to the different sizes of employers and whether they can be made less labour-intensive for employers, especially when it comes to assessing wage differentials for jobs that are considered equivalent. Comparing a salary survey within an equivalent working group is quite simple. But what is complicated is when you compare with other equivalent working groups. In a small workplace it can be difficult to find other occupations to compare with. The law now says that if you have more than ten employees, you should document the survey. You should compare both within and between different working groups. But with 11 to 50 employees, you probably don't have many occupational groups to compare with. The Swedish National Audit Office wishes to draw attention to the fact that at workplaces with 20 to 30 employees, which has been looked at, the requirement to document the salary survey does not seem to have had any significant significance. Everyone should always do a salary survey, but it's about the documentation requirement. We would like this to be reviewed so that small businesses do not have to document the pay survey, but they will continue to do so. The Christian Democrats therefore believe, Mr President, that we should take into account the Swedish National Audit Office's proposals and that they should be implemented. The government is now saying that it will only comply with the legislation that already exists. Then you should follow an investigation that has been set up regarding active measures, but it partly concerns something other than this part of the salary survey. I think that the point is slightly missed and regret that the majority of the committee does not see the importance of the review proposed in the reservation. And I note that the Liberals and the Center Party have not taken a stand for all those companies that today find it difficult to comply with the current regulatory framework, nor is it looking at the need to try to reduce the regulatory burden on businesses, especially small businesses. I would therefore like to support this reservation.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-239	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are discussing the report by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, the AU5 National Audit Office, on the demands of the Discrimination Act for salary mapping. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. The Mediation Institute is tasked with monitoring and analysing the pay gap between women and men, and a report is published annually. The report, which analyses the 2017 wage statistics, states that women averaged 89 per cent of men's wages during the year. The total unweighted difference is therefore 11%. Taking into account the gender gap resulting from the division of women and men across occupations, sectors, education, age and working time, there is still an inexplicable difference of 4.3 %, i.e. that women earn 95.7% of men's wages after taking these factors into account. Although the pay gap between women and men has narrowed over time, men still earn more than women. Mr President, I would like to The quantitative part of the review examines the impact on wage differentials between 2001 and 2016. The legislation's requirement to carry out a pay survey is directed towards pay differentials among individual employers. In order to assess the potential impact of wage mapping on addressing the pay gap, it compares the wages between men and women of the same employer but also follows them over time. The documentation of the salary survey shall specify the salary adjustments to be made. The legislation states that inappropriate pay differentials should be addressed as soon as possible and at the latest within three years. An annual salary survey will provide an automatic follow-up to show whether measures have been taken. An annual survey of wages will remind employers and employees' representatives of the work to combat inappropriate pay differentials. From 2017, the legislative requirements for plans have been replaced by a more general documentation requirement. The design is not more regulated and can be developed in the most appropriate way for the employer. However, it should reflect the aspects previously documented in the gender equality plan. Mr President, I would like to The report's title is the Discrimination Act's requirement for salary mapping – a blunt tool to reduce the gender pay gap. And I can only agree, but I hope that the 2017 amendment will bring changes, because the explanations for the current pay gap tend to be very sweeping. In many cases market forces are referred to when one justifies men's higher wages in male-dominated occupations in, for example, the public sector. These market forces do not exist with regard to women's wages in the public sector. Perhaps it is because the wages of women-dominated private sector occupations are not higher than those of women-dominated public sector occupations. This is how it sounds in actual salary mapping documents in a municipality. An analysis of wage policies, practices, identification of employees' tasks and analysis of pay differentials is carried out in the work. In the wage survey, no case of inappropriate pay differentials has been identified, either in terms of equal work or equal. In the analysis of equivalent jobs, 51 non-female-dominating positions with equal or lower job evaluation and equal or higher pay than women-dominated positions have been identified. The wage differentials are explained by market forces, salary from previous positions, wage setting for employees in small groups and reduction of working hours. When things look like this with our public employers, and that is not uncommon, I hope that the change in legislation that was made will make a difference. However, in order to measure whether a change has had any impact in practice, follow-up needs to take place in a few years' time. The effects of change in legislation may reasonably first have had an impact after the employer has had the opportunity to relate to the new legislation and some salary audits have passed – according to the Swedish National Audit Office's report.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-251	Mr President, I would like to It is good that we agree that wage surveys are needed so that you can compare your salary with others in the same working group at a workplace. However, the documentation is a complication. A company with 11 employees may have some IT technicians, some reception staff, a HR person and so on. First, you should compare within the group of IT technicians and within the group reception staff. The next step is to compare between equal groups. How can you find equal groups at a workplace with 11 employees without just getting into individual individuals in the documentation? In its report, the Swedish National Audit Office has highlighted how difficult it is for these small companies to document and to look at equal groups. I would like to hear how Marianne Pettersson views small businesses' ability to meet the requirements of the current law? Is it effective? Is it reasonable to impose these requirements on small businesses?
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-255	Mr President, I would like to In order for this to have repercussions, it must be followed over time and documented. Otherwise, it's impossible. However, there are many different systems. And the change that was made in the 2017 legislation can make it easier, because now it's not as strict. How do the Christian Democrats want us to follow this up well? Not all small businesses have 11 employees. They may have considerably more, perhaps up to ten in each group. How do the Christian Democrats propose that we document this and follow it over time?
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-257	Mr President, I would like to What we propose in the reservation is to investigate whether an alternative can be found. It is often forgotten in this debate that even if no documentation is made, a salary survey should be carried out. The employer should be able to keep track, and you should be able to go to your union and say that your own salary is not equal to that of the others with the same type of job. The reservation applies precisely to the documentation requirement. The Alliance introduced that only 50 employees would require documentation. But if that's where we land after an investigation, I'm afraid to say. Why should there be a documentation requirement for such small companies? If you have eleven employees you probably have pretty good control without having to sit and write. If someone comes from an authority and examines, you should be able to say that you are doing salary surveys, but the question is how necessary the documentation is. It often creates a lot of hassle for small businesses.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-261	Mr President, I would like to If you have 45 employees and 15 in the same occupational group, of which 4 are women, can you remember one year later why you did it in a certain way? I don't think so, and that's why it's good to document. This will also document the measures to be taken and that they have been taken. If nothing is written, it is difficult to see if the measures have been taken.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-262	Mr President, I would like to I could not help but ask for the floor. I reacted quite strongly to the directly incorrect statement by Marianne Pettersson that business in welfare would have no effect whatsoever. Research shows that it has a positive effect on women's wage development and career development. The Mediation Institute notes, among other things, that the inappropriate pay gap in county councils is 4.6 per cent and in municipalities 0.7 per cent. In addition, we see in the Entrepreneurship Forum's statistics on women's entrepreneurship that this decreased by as much as 30 per cent, one third, during the 2018 election year. It is noted that the reason for this was not least Marianne Pettersson's party's discussions on profit bans in welfare. This would prevent women's opportunities for entrepreneurship in welfare and their chance to develop their careers. Why does the majority in the committee choose not to proceed with the recommendations made by the Swedish National Audit Office? I noticed that Marianne Pettersson said in her speech that she hopes that the changes made in 2017 will soon have an effect. Hope may not be our primary concern here. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the effects of this legislation and notes that it has been three years and that some concrete measures should be taken. Why do you choose not to take these measures now that the possibility exists?
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-267	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office also points out that the changes in legislation will not have any effect until a certain period of time has passed. First, the employer should have the opportunity to take on board the new changes. Then there will be a couple of salary audits, and it will take a number of years. That is why we need to wait before moving on with this work. If you look at women-dominated professions in healthcare, for example, you can see no difference. On the contrary, in some areas there are lower wages and wage increases, while at the same time there are considerably lower employment conditions.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-269	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that Marianne Pettersson has other tasks than those research and investigations show. The fact that Marianne Pettersson has her own knowledge that is not in line with the research that exists in the field is quite astounding. Let me return to the question. I still wonder why they do not want to take the measures proposed by the Swedish National Audit Office. The Swedish National Audit Office makes three concrete recommendations, and we choose to proceed with them. But what I hear from the Member of Parliament is that you should wait a little longer and see if anything happens. It is not taking responsibility for this development.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-271	Madam President, I would like It should be borne in mind that in the study that has been carried out, wage differentials were examined first and foremost during the period 2001-2016. The legislation changed in 2017. As far as my knowledge is concerned, I have obtained it through investigations carried out by Kommunal and from when I myself was a wage negotiator for these professions in both the private and public sectors. My knowledge is based on this and on figures that other covenants have shown. It is possible that Josefin Malmqvist has taken part in other studies. There are various proposals, as the report shows. Some are about waiting while others are about taking action. We'll see and wait for what's right.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-274	Madam President, I would like We now have a debate on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the demands of the Non-Discrimination Act for salary mapping. I have no reservation to make, but I would like to make a few comments. The gender pay gap has been drastically reduced since the salary survey was launched in 1994. If I have read this report correctly – although not exactly from cover to cover – it suggests that salary mapping has not helped to narrow the gap over time and that the gap that we see now is too small for the legislation to have any additional effect. Madam President, I would like I think that the Swedish National Audit Office shows a little lack of understanding of what the primary purpose of salary mapping is. It has not been to reduce the wage gap between different sectors, sectors or companies, but to prevent wage discrimination at individual level. Madam President, I would like I apologize for my travesty at Stina in Vi at Saltkråkan but at home at my real job, from which I am on leave, I have been doing salary surveys and salary audits for over 15 years. It has worked very well there. If you make wage surveys structured and in connection with the salary audit every year, it is not as difficult as some want to make it appear. On the contrary, it is a very effective way of preventing wage differentials linked to gender. Let me take an example. The reason why Karl and Muhammed have a higher salary than Jasmine and Margareta have is that, although they all work in the same department and have worked for about the same time, they have a liability supplement in addition to their job description. ..................................................... This is an excellent opportunity to ask how it is that it is so very often Callar and Muhammad who to a greater extent get extra tasks which by chance also gives more money every month. You can also ask how it is that you value, for example, responsibility for the purchase of paper bags or receipt rolls differently depending on who currently has that task. This is what is to identify and prevent at individual level. It is very important that the survey does not lie unilaterally with the employer, but that it is done together with the trade union organisation, as it is also linked to the salary audit. Finally, Madam President, I agree with the Government, which thanks the National Audit Office for its report and proposes that it be added to the file.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-282	Madam President, I would like What we are now going to debate is about the evaluation of the matching activities of Arbetsförmedlingen. This cannot, of course, be broken out, delimited or distinguished from the Public Employment Service and its great need for reform in general. As with the rest of Arbetsförmedlingen's activities, Madam President, there is, frankly, a devastating criticism when assessing the matching. We are talking here about one of Sweden's largest authorities. It is one of the authorities in which the public has absolutely the lowest confidence, and one that has long been regarded as one of the least attractive employers. This week data showed that the Employment Service discriminates against foreign-born women in favour of foreign-born men in terms of entry into the labour market. Unfortunately, the list can be made long, but the most serious thing, of course, is that we do not really deliver in relation to the job seekers. This is particularly true in view of the fact that unemployment is now increasing. There is now broad support and a broad understanding in the Riksdag that the Public Employment Service needs to be reformed, including after the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party have completely re-established and now also, after previous stubborn opposition, realises this. Madam President, I would like Employment services need to be fundamentally changed and based on external actors. But reform needs to be well thought out and gradual, especially if we are now entering a recession. The rapid and ill-considered reform of the Public Employment Service that the government and its support parties are now undertaking is really lacking any plan. It risks becoming, above all, an experimental workshop, Madam President. We Moderates have been critical of both the design of the reform and the unclear and premature timetable. Together with the other parties of the Riksdag, we have forced the government to abandon the plans to allow the whole reform to depend on the law on freedom of choice. In fact, not everyone should be allowed to become an intermediary. We have also pushed through the postponement of the timetable until November 2022. Madam President, I would like The growing fragmentation of the parties to the January Agreement and the lack of clarity in their restructuring of the Public Employment Service are becoming increasingly evident. This has been made quite clear on not least all the occasions when both the former Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson and the present Eva Nordmark have been called to the Labour Market Committee to present the Government's plans for the Labour Service's reform. This is also evident from all the conflicting statements in the media and press conferences made by various representatives of the parties to the January Agreement. There are also open contradictions between them about how their planned reform of the Public Employment Service should actually be done. There are a growing number of fundamental questions regarding the government's restructuring of one of Sweden's largest authorities that must be answered. They must be answered for the benefit of job seekers, the employees of the Employment Service, external actors and the municipalities of the country, Madam President. This is a message that needs to be given soon in the light of rising unemployment. The government has had over a year. It eventually becomes untenable. A number of these fundamental issues, which are becoming more and more, relate to everything from the basic structure of the whole reform to the role of municipalities in all of this. I might add that the January agreement makes no mention whatsoever of the role of municipalities. The Labour Minister held a press conference last autumn, for example, in which an investigation was set up to give municipalities a role in this and made it clear that the promised timetable would be fixed. Some week later, the Liberal party leaders went out and stated that they could not really see a role for the municipalities at all and that the timetable was unrealistic and needed to change. The municipal inquiry that is sitting has now been eroded to clarify the legal situation, Madam President. We also have major questions and conflicting commitments regarding the local presence, office, re-employment and tasks of the Employment Service. It has been promised that Arbetsförmedlingen would exist in all municipalities. This would be a real increase in ambition, as the Public Employment Service has never existed in all municipalities so far. They say that the Swedish Public Employment Service's signs should be available in all municipalities. Then, of course, the question arises: Is it only about signs, or should there be any real activity too? When the media interview those to be reinstated about their duties, they have no idea. There is also no manager in charge who can describe what these tasks would consist of. Madam President, I would like The parties in the January Agreement must give information and take responsibility for their policies and decisions. It is against the background of Arbetsförmedlingen's overall need for reform that we take note of the Swedish National Audit Office's report on Arbetsförmedlingen's matching work. I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of reservation 1.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-295	Madam President, I would like The Swedish labour market faces enormous challenges. With the most segregated labour market in Europe, we have problems in the Swedish labour market that are unparalleled in Swedish history. The Swedish Democrats believe that work in most cases is a very important part of becoming part of a new country – a rbete in combination with their own will and their own drive to learn the language and the new culture. We firmly argue that it is always on the individual's own responsibility to become part of the labour market, but that the state should also be able to provide support in cases where it is absolutely necessary and justified. When people came to Sweden during the 20th century there was no need for any special measures and start-up programmes. Then it was necessary to take work to get by in the new country, which led to organic integration and assimilation. Now we have a different situation in Sweden. About 25 per cent of those enrolled in Arbetsförmedlingen are to varying degrees close to the labour market. Approximately 75% are to varying degrees far removed from the labour market. Of these, a large proportion are born abroad with a very long way to a rich job. The group includes people who can't read and so-called iva, never had a job before, don't know Swedish and probably never will get a job before retirement age for the reasons I just mentioned. According to people working in the A rbetsförmedlingen, it is today a major problem that the long-term unemployed, who have been given considerable resources to continue to work, remain in the system, despite the fact that it is a bad idea that they will probably not get a job. It is economically costly at all stages, but it also means that those who really need action do not get the support they need. That is a fact to which we must relate today, even if we in the S verige democrats dislike the policies that have been pursued in this area in the past. According to their own statements, the Public Employment Service has gone from being an intermediary of work to being an integration colossus to solve integration challenges in the labour market. It is a task that is almost impossible with the tools they have today. According to the research, integration efforts such as subsidised employment can be a way forward. It's all k orrekt. However, it should also be borne in mind that Sweden is one of the most developed service economies in the world, with skills that are far too high for those who come to Sweden. That is a great reason why initiatives like those tested in recent decades are not successful, but cost taxpayers huge money with very poor results. It is on the people who would have gone to other burdened parts of the welfare. We believe that this is an ineffek and a bad policy for all citizens. The reason I mention this is that it is linked to the Swedish National Audit Office's report, which we are now debating and which addresses the shortcomings that exist in the agency's governance work. It is fundamental to you that white tn is about a gigan tisk system failure. I argue that this system error has arisen because of the loads placed on the Agency's shoulders for a long time. The handlers of the A rbetsförmedlingen are struggling in constant headwind with new Executives and so on, even though they have not even had time to deal with the regulations they have been ordered to do before. It creates an unsustainable and impossible situation. The fundamental reform of the A rbetsförmedling is absolutely crucial in order to overcome the stocks of problems created. There, of course, we warmly welcome the work begun by the January parties. However, we believe that it is of concern that the agency does not bring the system errors into the work. For this reason, it is extremely important for the work to be done with care and careful thought, i.e. not to be carried out with rapid movements, which, when the former management of the Arbetsförmedlingen decided on its own to put the offices in the countryside last year, e.g. decisions taken by the management itself and which the Minister for Labour highlighted during his visit to us in committee before Christmas. This is also the reason why, in the reservation, we ask you that the government should find out how the effectiveness and equivalence of the matching activities of the Arbetsförmedlingen can be ensured before work on the changed structure begins. My understanding is that most of the parties in this House are in complete agreement that we need to reform and improve the delivery of work on Swedish labour markets. Now we just hope that the government dares to make the tough decisions it takes to get right with segregation. For this reason, we are in favour of our reservation 1 in the report.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-305	Madam President, I would like Arbetsförmedlingen is not only one of our largest and most important agencies, but also an authority that has suffered a great deal of political abuse in the last 15 years. After a particularly heavy-handed undermining work – one can say – carried out during the bourgeois government years 2006–2014, the Employment Service has been drawn with difficulties to be what most citizens rightly expect, i.e. a state institution that can help workers with different conditions for new employment in a mobile labour market and thus also contribute to the dynamism and efficiency of resource use in the Swedish labour market as a whole. After these years of chaotic control and failed market experiments, the Public Employment Service was in a recognised poor condition. It is regrettable, but not surprising, that many of those problems have continued even after the turn of the government in 2014. What has probably surprised most people, however, is that it would be possible to make such strong attempts to further reduce the Employment Service as we have seen after the last election. It has involved both dramatic budget cuts and a January agreement that outlined a full-scale chaos privatisation of the central functions of the Public Employment Service. Now reality has gradually caught up, and there are many more, including the Moderates, who have taken at least some kind of spot wise reason. It is always pleasing when this happens in politics. At the end of last year, we were therefore able to press here in Parliament for a kind of emergency stop for the full-scale chaos privatisation and obtain some promises from the government about the agency's presence and continued operations. Madam President, I would like It is against this background that we need to look at today's debate on what on the surface is a very dry report, Riksrevisionen's report on Arbetsförmedlingen's matching work. These are the risks of inefficiencies and equivalence in the matching work of Arbetsförmedlingen. The Government writes in its letter that it shares the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that this should be followed up, but at the same time the Government deems it necessary to await the reform of the entire Swedish Public Employment Service before the arrangements for such follow-up can be determined further. This is where it gets a little weird. If there are now things to work with regarding the matching work of Arbetsförmedlingen, it is not very reassuring to say that it will have to wait with reference to a reform that has been obviously wrong-thinking, badly managed and that in several respects has already failed. On the Left side, we believe that a government with integrity and political will should have been able to respond to some of the starting points in the Swedish National Audit Office's report if you want to immerse yourself in it. If you read the report carefully, you can see that it has a very strong focus on easy measurability when it comes to efficiency and equivalence. This is a more general problem in the audit of public administration. That is something that we should discuss in more depth in more contexts. In its response, the government hardly contributes anything in this respect. In the specific case we see in the Left Party a risk with too strong a focus on what can be measured and followed up easily. This can lead to an underestimation of more difficult but absolutely crucial experience that staff develop. This applies to the networks of contacts that are built up and the practical skills in guiding people properly and effectively. As I was in the past, we are happy to have stopped or postponed some of the excesses planned by the January parties for Arbetsförmedlingen. But of course we are fully aware of the fact that there are many outstanding problems and that the irresponsible political management that has characterized the Public Employment Service in recent years has already had major consequences. We have also heard in previous posts here several things that I agree with. There is still considerable uncertainty as to the role of municipalities in the work of the Public Employment Service in the future. It is very unclear whether the slogan that the signs should be raised should also be followed by someone behind, in front of or under the sign, or what to say. It is still unclear how the pilot projects launched on the LOV theme, i.e. the Freedom of Choice Act, should be dealt with further and rolled out or not. There are many things that are already problematic. One consequence of the chaos is that many knowledgeable officials in the agency have been dismissed or stopped on their own accord because of the chaos and lack of faith in the future. As a result, important knowledge and experience have been lost and lost every day. This affects the remaining staff and the unemployed who are in need of support and help. That is why we believe that a reasonable conclusion from the current situation that the National Audit Office's report partly helps to highlight is that the government should act to avoid draining of expertise and experience. The Left Party's proposal in our follow-up motion is that the Government should set up an investigation with the task of specifically reviewing how Arbetsförmedlingen can use the experience of the administrators in order to create better conditions for efficiency and equivalence in matching operations. I would therefore like to support the Left Party's Amendment No 2. I also note that the Moderates have a follow-up motion, as we have heard here before. They have a reservation to which they have been asked to give their consent in the past. I agree with some of the things that are written there. It is difficult to trust the government and its cooperation parties when they say that the reform work should ensure greater efficiency. Then the Moderates are a little bit back in old footsteps. The efficiency that is being talked about should be conjured up and lead to reduced costs in some way. There are different points of departure in these reservations. I want to be clear, not least, with the representatives of the government parties and of the support parties. We, the Left Party, will be open to acting together with other parties again if that is what is needed in the future to get the government and the January parties to stick to the promises made before Christmas. This is something that Arbetsförmedlingen's staff deserve, and it deserves not least those who need Arbetsförmedlingen's services around the country.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-320	Madam President, I would like The task of the Employment Service is to improve matching in the Swedish labour market by effectively bringing together those seeking work with those seeking labour. In 2018, Arbetsförmedlingen allocated just over one third, or SEK 3.5 billion, of its administrative grant to matching operations. In addition, there was a programme grant of nearly SEK 14 billion that would, among other things, contribute to improving matching in the labour market. Despite all the resources spent on matching activities, the Swedish Public Employment Service's last three annual reports consider that they have not reached the goal of improved matching. We can read this in the Swedish National Audit Office's review, which takes as its starting point why the match has not improved. They have looked at Arbetsförmedlingen's control of matching work to see if it creates conditions for efficiency and equivalence. The overall answer is already available in the title of the report, which reads: The matching work of Arbetsförmedlingen – a vague knowledge base and a lack of governance. Madam President, I would like As I said, large resources have been allocated from the state budget for the matching work of Arbetsförmedlingen. There is a broad political understanding that the results are too poor and that a reform of the agency and its matching function is a necessity. We Christian Democrats share the committee's view that the work on matching work and labour market policy assessments is linked to the far-reaching reform of the Public Employment Service, which is currently being prepared. However, as this review shows, effective labour market policies can only become a reality if each individual is given the right input at the right time. It is central to the job seeker, to the person in need of labour, but also to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent in the best and most effective way. Costs must be reduced, and efforts must be more accurate. We therefore believe that it is absolutely crucial that the government should carefully investigate how efficiency and equivalence in Arbetsförmedlingen's matching work can be ensured. Of course, there are factors outside the control of the authority that affect the low results. In recent years, the Public Employment Service has been given a more difficult assignment. The proportion of registered workers with a vulnerable position in the labour market has increased. More of the enrolled persons have no upper secondary school qualifications or are born in an overseas country. These are groups that generally find it more difficult to find a job and are more likely to end up in long-term unemployment. At the same time, there is a high labour shortage in Sweden, often in occupations requiring a high level of education. There are many studies showing major shortcomings in the Swedish Public Employment Service's working methods and governance. It is precisely the assessment of the actions to be deployed for the individual that is emphasised in this report, and the review and recommendations are too important to be put on high. If the reform of the Public Employment Service is to succeed, it is necessary to improve the assessment of the position of the job seeker in the labour market and the amount of support that the person in question needs. That is why, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 1. The Swedish National Audit Office states that the lack of governance can lead to job seekers not receiving as good support from different intermediaries or individual intermediaries. In the long run, this means that some job seekers risk a longer period of unemployment than is necessary. The labour market policy assessment is therefore about determining what support the job seeker should receive and is thus an absolutely crucial element in matching work. In order to ensure an equivalent assessment, the Authority has developed a computerised assessment support that is a tool for the work mediators in determining, for example, the risk of long-term unemployment in a job seeker. However, the review reveals that the employment mediators do not use the aid, but rather rely on their own personal assessment in many ways. Perhaps this can be explained to some extent by what is also stated in the review, i.e. that the Swedish Public Employment Service's working methods are based on too weak a knowledge base. The review shows that Arbetsförmedlingen has limited knowledge of how the different working methods of the agency can contribute to improved matching. This applies to both centrally developed methods and different locally developed working methods. Many of the key methods have been based on a proven experience. According to a previous study, this could mean describing only the working methods used by the work mediators and that the descriptions were sometimes based on individual intermediaries' own views. The governance within Arbetsförmedlingen leaves a great deal of room for the work mediators to choose their own way of working, and the review shows that this can be done on the basis of a local workplace culture and experience that close colleagues have had. One risk factor that the Swedish National Audit Office points to is that the agency does not systematically monitor how the matching work is carried out at local offices and by individual intermediaries. There is also a lack of exchange of experience between different offices and employment agencies. It is a problem that Arbetsförmedlingen does not follow up if job seekers receive an equivalent service. The fact that the agency does not follow up on the working methods used in the business makes it almost impossible to evaluate and then develop them. Here we can only go back to the review of gender mainstreaming of integration policy that the National Audit Office presented last year and which we have debated in this House. It clearly showed that newly arrived women do not receive equal service and are not met with the same expectations. They also participate significantly less in various preparatory work activities compared to men. Madam President, I would like The review that Cold facts have recently done and that we could see earlier this week shows how Arbetsförmedlingen has dealt with newly arrived women for a long time in a different way from men. Men have received 77% of the labour market training, 67% in traineeships and 84% in new start-up jobs. Whether women are low-skilled or highly educated, they are more often excluded from employment than men do. Of course, it is not just an authority that should be burdened for this. The racism of low expectations has for too long permeated Swedish integration policy in general. But it is a reality that should not be accepted and something the government really has to take on board and do something about in the reform. Finally, Madam President, the Swedish National Audit Office notes that despite the central importance of labour market policy assessments, the government has not regulated or followed up the agency's work in this area. And despite the fact that the Swedish Public Employment Service is currently undergoing major changes, the Swedish National Audit Office believes that the requirements for efficiency and equivalence remain. I can't help but agree.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-337	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed Arbetsförmedlingen's matching work and notes in its review that the Authority's matching work is based on a weak knowledge base. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, governance has not been able to ensure that those who mediate work use effective methods and make equivalent assessments of the needs of those who seek employment. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, this can lead to job seekers not receiving equal support. In this context, we note that the methods used by the Public Employment Service were already developed in 2010. Part of the problem is that Arbetsförmedlingen has delegated responsibility for methods and working methods far out in the organisation. This in itself provides good conditions for local adaptation, but it also means that job seekers risk getting different good services depending on which office they turn to. According to the report, the Public Employment Service must be better at evaluating and developing its working methods in order to ensure that labour market policy assessments are effective and equivalent. Madam President, I would like We welcome the Swedish National Audit Office's review and believe that it is good that the deficiencies are made visible, debated and corrected. However, it is important to note that the report only examines parts of the matching work. According to Arbetsförmedlingen, for example, the service is supported and matching and the digital matching is outside the review. During the review, the Employment Service has also been informed that the matching aimed at new arrivals and persons with disabilities with reduced work capacity is not included, but this is not reflected in the final report. This means that much of the matching work that Arbetsförmedlingen spends significant human resources and a large part of its digital development work is not part of the audit. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise that we welcome the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that there is a risk of inefficiency and equivalence in the matching work of Arbetsförmedlingen. We also share the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that Arbetsförmedlingen's activities with labour market policy assessments should be followed up. Madam President, I would like A well-functioning labour market that takes advantage of people's skills and willingness to work is the basis for Sweden's welfare. Everyone who can work should work, contribute and take responsibility. Today we see that there are more than 360 000 more Swedes going to work than it was before. We have a high employment rate. The labour market is still good, although we see a slowdown in the Swedish economy. At the same time, we can see that the challenges in the Swedish labour market are significant. It is not least a question of facilitating the entry into the labour market of the large groups who find it difficult to get a job. They are people with shorter education, non-European births and disabilities. With regard to matching the Swedish labour market between job seekers and job vacancies, it is clear that this must work better than today. We note that the result that the Public Employment Service has delivered in several respects has not been sufficient. There is therefore room for improvement in relation to several of the tasks within the Authority's remit. Madam President, I would like Employment services have played a key role in implementing labour market policies for a long time. We note, however, that over several years implementation has failed in efficiency. In line with what has been agreed in the January Agreement, the Public Employment Service is therefore to be reformed in order to improve the effectiveness of labour market policy activities. There is intensive work going on in the Government Office to analyse Arbetsförmedlingen's report, which the agency submitted to the Government on 1 November 2019. We believe that the reform of Arbetsförmedlingen is fundamental and will have a major impact on the development of labour market policy assessment. We therefore believe that it is necessary to await the reform of the Employment Service before the arrangements for such a follow-up to the labour market assessment can be further developed. Madam President, I would like As regards the role and role of local authorities in labour market policy, which is an issue that is addressed, we believe it is important that local authorities' efforts and activities aimed at facilitating the entry of individuals into the labour market are taken into account in the reform of the Public Employment Service. One current issue is the ability of municipalities to participate in the implementation of state labour market policies. Municipalities have increasingly become a central part of a functioning labour market policy. We therefore welcome the investigation that the government has commissioned to analyse and assess the legal situation on this issue. We know that the mission will be presented by 29 May this year, and we believe that this will be an important basis for the work on reforming and designing the new system. Madam President, I would like We are aware that the matching work has not worked as it should, and we believe that reform is necessary. We agree on this in this House. For this reason, the government has identified the reform as a priority in its new regulatory letter to the Swedish Public Employment Service. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish Public Employment Service to ensure a functioning operation with equivalent service throughout the country. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to stress the importance of progressive and orderly reform of the Public Employment Service. The timetable has been clarified and adjusted. A solid control function for the reform should be in place well in advance of implementation. And there should be a variety of actors, but there should be no more actors than that it is possible to ensure control of quality and results. With this in mind, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-355	Madam President, I would like There are now quite a large number of fundamental issues – and there are actually more of them every week – as regards the planned reform of the Public Employment Service by the January parties, which must be answered. In my introduction, I touched on the lack of clarity about the role of municipalities and the fact that the municipalities are not mentioned at all in the January agreement linked to the current discussion on the activities of the Public Employment Service throughout the country. Even Serkan Köse was a part of it. But what has been said by the Minister for Labour and others about the Swedish Employment Service's signs being available throughout the country, what does that mean? Does this mean that there should be only one sign but really no activity at all? Or does this mean that there should also be activities in all municipalities? We have heard representatives of one of the parties to the January Agreement, the Center Party, promise that the Swedish Public Employment Service will be present in all Swedish municipalities, also clarified with all 290 municipalities in Sweden. Is this true? What will that presence then look like? But above all: Is it only Arbetsförmedlingen's signs that should be up, or should there also be any activity out there in all Swedish municipalities?
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-359	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Mats Green! I quite clearly mentioned the role of the municipalities. The Swedish Public Employment Service's analysis report contains clear descriptions of, but also provides information on, how this could be handled with the role of municipalities. In addition to this, I mentioned that an investigation has been set up to look at the role of municipalities. When it comes to the discussion about local presence, the Government commissions the Swedish Public Employment Service to ensure a better local presence throughout the country. It may be in collaboration with other actors or that you have a local office, but that's the assignment to Arbetsförmedlingen. Questions about how a party has reasoned and discussed may I think be addressed to that party's representatives. At this point, however, there is quite a lot of work going on at the Ministry to look at all the elements that Mats Green has raised, both in his question and in his previous speech.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-362	Madam President, I would like It is a problem that you do not really get any answers to the questions. It also shows that this is not a well-thought-out reform at all. When it comes to the role of municipalities, refer here to Arbetsförmedlingen's own investigation. Then you should remember that Arbetsförmedlingen did not get an overall assignment to look at the new Arbetsförmedlingen but only a number of sub-missions, so to speak, all because the government did not want the whole picture there. Furthermore, as regards the role of the municipalities, I assume that everyone has taken note of the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, SKR's, letter to the government, where one is critical to the least part of the question about the role of the municipalities and how Sweden's municipalities are actually treated. For us Moderates, it goes without saying that the municipalities must play a role in this, but it is clearly still unclear. We also have an investigation that has really been eroded since the Minister for Labour's press conference to be just about somehow highlighting the legal situation, and that may not be huge ambitions for an investigation. And to be honest, it doesn't even take an investigation to look at it. I will come back with the stubbornness of a fool to the fact that we need information about the role of the municipalities. Above all, the municipalities need it. But again: The Employment Service should be in all of Sweden's 290 municipalities, says the Center Party. The employment agency's signs must be available throughout the country, says the Minister for Labour. What do these promises and promises mean in concrete terms? In fact, one cannot say one thing and then ask for two, three or four months of reflection to give substance to what was actually meant. What does it mean that the Swedish Public Employment Service's signs should be available throughout the country?
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-368	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mats, for the question. I wish I was Minister of Labour, but I am not. As a member of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I think I can answer the question very narrowly. However, I think it is important, as I mentioned earlier, that the municipalities are already pursuing a great deal of labour market policy today. Those of us who have been local politicians know what it means to cooperate with Arbetsförmedlingen. Let us remember that the delegation for young and newcomers to work, which this government appointed, helps to strengthen cooperation between the state and the municipalities. Today, in fact, 287 municipalities are working together with the state to see how to improve relations but also how to support the people who need the help and support of the municipalities. There is therefore a lot of work already going on today. Then I mentioned that in the analysis work it is quite clear what one can expect in the relationship between the state and the municipality. On this there is the municipal inquiry that has been set up, and, as I mentioned earlier, there is an enormous amount of analytical work going on at the Ministry to look at all these parts – both the Swedish National Audit Office's report and the ongoing discussion and debate on the role of municipalities. Again, as regards the local presence, I believe that the regulation letter to the Employment Service for 2020 states quite clearly that the agency should ensure a better local presence throughout the country. Then I do not think that the important thing in the discussion is whether a sign is put up, but the important thing is that this should be filled with activity and that the job seekers get help and support from Arbetsförmedlingen. It can be with an actor or in a local. That's the assignment to Arbetsförmedlingen to handle.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-372	Madam President, I would like Today we are discussing the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the matching at Arbetsförmedlingen. We should remember that it is the part that the Public Employment Service is currently dealing with itself that we are discussing. What is reflected in the report and which several speakers have pointed out is, as the National Audit Office itself says, the lack of efficiency and the lack of equivalence. What also shines through is how difficult it is for individual intermediaries to make the business work in a knowledge-based and efficient way with the structures that exist today. As several speakers have pointed out, the media have recently highlighted how the system often sees women as impossible and does not base its activities on the fact that it has succeeded in many places and in many contexts. In this debate, I think it is good that there is broad agreement and understanding in this House that there is a need for a fundamental reform of the labour market, orderly step by step and based on the fairly great knowledge of what has worked and what has not. However, I would just like to point out one thing to my bourgeois friends. The Freedom of Choice Act does not allow anyone to enter a business – absolutely not! Of course, this is not the case today at Arbetsförmedlingen with support and matching, where there are very high demands. This is not the case in health centres or other activities under the Freedom of Choice Act, and of course this is not the case in the January agreement either. On the contrary, it states that the number of participants should be limited. Now we have said that this reform should not be based on the law of freedom of choice, but I still want to defend the law of freedom of choice when it comes to debate. I would now like to go into this report specifically, because it is important that we still discuss it. The first problem is that we do not follow up on how to help the unemployed in a knowledge-based and systematic way. This is something that we have been pointing out for a long time and where – I come to that – the assessment of labour market policy is absolutely crucial for it to work. But what is also reflected in the report is that in practice many local intermediaries are forced to round the bureaucracy, because the measures available are not effective. As a result, there will be a lack of systematics, not only because the bureaucracy of the Employment Service is not effective, but also because local intermediaries sometimes face hopeless tasks where the municipality – we have been talking about – can come in with its own resources to compensate for the shortcomings and find local solutions that are sometimes better. However, the conclusion is that after so many reform attempts at the Public Employment Service, a completely different form of performance-based governance is needed. I would like to point out that this is the basis for a reform of the Employment Service: rewarding a result in the form of permanent work, especially in the most difficult cases, and in addition, it can scale up what works locally and nationally and scale down what does not work. The Swedish National Audit Office's conclusions are very important and very informative. The second point I would like to make is the assessment of labour market policy. For those who follow this and who, like my colleagues, are not experts on the subject, I can tell you that that is the basis for determining what measures are to be taken and what measures are to be taken, unemployed for unemployed. This assessment, which has been pointed out by many for a long time, is very flawed and must be guided up, in particular in order to produce these results. In fact, we have, at least since we came into the picture with the January cooperation, pointed out that this is the mission, and that is why work has also begun on it. We have now been very careful that this is to a greater extent in the regulation letter to be taken into account in what one actually does and not what the National Audit Office points out arbitrarily. It will, of course, if we can advise, be a very central part of the gradual, orderly and sensible reform of the Public Employment Service. I would also like to point out that we are now putting a lot of pressure on evaluation. We have the opportunity to conduct a pilot survey in 32 municipalities that the Public Employment Service itself designed but which must be followed up in the form of evaluation. Overall, the Swedish National Audit Office's report reminds us of the very serious situation we now have with the Swedish Public Employment Service and the great need to do something step by step, wisely and properly and knowledge-based make a thorough reform. That is why I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-384	Madam President, I would like I actually had some of the same questions that Mats Green asked Serkan Serkan from the Social Democrats, but it feels more reasonable to ask them to Martin Ådahl, because in this reform you often feel that the government parties are a little backseat passengers. I'm not going to review how they might feel about it, but I'm going to ask Martin Ådahl these questions. I had some thoughts about the signs. Signs are a nice visual aid, but does this mean that there will be signs for Arbetsförmedlingen that there will also be activities behind them? You get some boring information if you talk to employees or trade unions in Arbetsförmedlingen. It is a matter of being concerned that the people who have been laid off and are now perhaps to come back have no actual tasks and, above all, that behind these signs there may rather be a notable non-activity. There may be someone who does not even work at Arbetsförmedlingen who has the task of saying that those who come and want support from Arbetsförmedlingen can google or use other types of assistive devices. That is perhaps not really what I think many people understood would happen when the Center Party hit the big drum and under severe pressure from outside said that there would now be order and order of the Arbetsförmedlingen in the whole country. Martin Ådahl will be happy to comment on that.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-387	Madam President, I would like What we are discussing now has little to do with the National Audit Office's report, but I thank Ali Esbati anyway for giving us the opportunity to discuss this issue. We have had the problem for five years that the management of Arbetsförmedlingen has had something called the change journey, where it has been felt that it has been effective to close down many small offices in the countryside. We have been discussing and criticising this in this House for a long time. Where the Left Party has been for much of that period when we have discussed, debated and criticised it is doubtful. Now it has appeared, when we have influence over politics again, and is aware that this is a major problem. We have been pushing this since the beginning of the year when it continued despite the fact that we have a new focus with a reform of the Employment Service. We have done it very carefully and have even been very, very critical of the Director-General and asked for a change in the effort. There have been problems with the funds in the so-called M-KD budget that were taken from Parliament, but there has also been a misdirection. Finally, after these various problems, we have now been as clear as it is possible to be in government control. We have said that one must have a presence in all municipalities – either in the state service offices in the municipality's premises, or, in a way, it is new, by reopening the offices. It is about activities in all the places where the so-called journey of change has been reduced. We have therefore been as clear as we can be in this type of governance at all. Then you can talk about signs or anything, but of course it is the business that is going back to all these places so that the unemployed meet locally. I think no one can doubt what the Center Party's orientation has been over all these years on this issue.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-392	Madam President, I would like I understand that there is a great need on the part of Martin Ådahl and from the Center Party centrally to describe history in this way because the Center Party, many times for difficult reasons, has strong support in the country's many municipalities. That is why we are faced with the problems that this has created, and I am pleased that the Centre Party here in Parliament changed its position on this. What I ask for is how this governance works if it is not followed up with, for example, increased resources and there is not a follow-up that is of the nature that promises do not lead to functioning activities but something that can be described as operations– sometimes there can be two different things, and that was a little that was the point. With regard to postponing the reform, I can draw the parallel that I have an eight-year-old at home who sometimes find it difficult to deal with this with times and that things have to be postponed because of problems that have arisen. It is sometimes frustrating that while you postpone something you either do more of the same thing as you did before and that led to you having to postpone a schedule or that you do nothing at all in the hope that things will happen in some magical way. Unfortunately, it is the same feelings you get when you hear how Martin Ådahl and the Center Party now relate to the postponed timetable for reform that we were many here in Parliament who forced forward. In that case, it is a bit boring and will lead to problems for Martin Ådahl, the Center Party and the government in the future. It would be interesting to hear how Martin Ådahl views it.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-395	Madam President, I would like I fully share the honourable Member's view that we cannot just leave things alone, either in the case of eight-year-olds or in my case ten-year-olds or in the case of major reforms of the Employment Service, but we must do something. If, year after year, it does not work, as pointed out in the Swedish National Audit Office's report, one must draw conclusions from it, for example, in the areas that the Swedish National Audit Office fundamentally points out and undertakes a reform. We draw completely different conclusions. You want to continue as usual, Ali Esbati, and we want to make a reform and do it step by step and as wisely as possible. When it comes to describing history, we do not need to debate this. After all, you have been standing here with my representatives in this House when, moreover, I myself have been criticising the closure of small rural offices for many years. Just go back and remember those moments. Then there has been a great struggle for many years to change, and at last a change is taking place. You pointed out a few things. The first was that it had to be real activity and that we had to follow it up. There are several reconciliation points where we will try very hard to ensure that it really is as it is said in the regulatory letter. When it comes to the money, however, it should be remembered that before the committee, where you yourself were involved, the management of the Employment Service said that this may not even save any money, which in a way is particularly serious. You create a lot of problems, but you don't even save money when you close these small offices and government. To the extent that it takes money to repair the historical mistakes, we have also discussed it, and it has also been presented to the committee that there is room for it.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-399	Madam President, I would like When I asked Serkan Serkan a number of questions earlier, he referred to Martin Ådahl. That's correct, isn't it? The only problem is that different representatives of the parties to the January Agreement constantly refer to each other when it comes to all questions about Arbetsförmedlingen. You can't really get information or claim responsibility from anywhere. It may not be sustainable when it comes to reforming one of Sweden's largest authorities. I note, however, that Martin Ådahl was able to provide information about things that Mr Serkan was absolutely unable to provide. In other words, not only are cosmetic signs written in all municipalities, but there should also be activities behind these signs. That is an interesting clarification. We'll take note of it in every way. I have also listened to the radio programme P1 Morgon from November 27, where the Center Party Martin Ådahl stated that the Swedish Public Employment Service will be present in all Swedish municipalities. He also clarified that one should be present in all 290 municipalities in Sweden. Once again, what was said to Ali Esbati thus applies. D is also about real activities for Arbetsförmedlingen in all 290 municipalities in Sweden. If the answer to the question is yes again, why could Serkan Köse not give the same answer?
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-403	Madam President, I would like It feels a bit like the questions asked have just been answered. But one question was that we should give some sort of different message. I find it hard to see that this is particularly different information. Both Mr Serkan and I have referred to the only letter of regulation available to the Employment Service, which is extremely clear on this issue, and many other documents and petitions that are as clear as they can be. It's another thing to want to describe it that way. But without arousing too many bears, I will say that there are far greater differences of opinion between the two questioners I have just had opposite me in this debate than at all among those who support the government's proposal and the regulatory letter that has now come and which, moreover, is very clear on this point. I am not very fond of debating these issues with my bourgeois friends. But I would like to open up all the good suggestions and views that may exist. When it comes to operating in all municipalities throughout the country, it is of course the way that there should not be municipalities in Sweden where the unemployed do not get help from Arbetsförmedlingen. I cannot imagine that there can be another point of view on this issue. In addition, Arbetsförmedlingen is obliged to operate in all municipalities. The problem is, it hasn't worked. It is with these gradual measures, both in the regulatory letter and in other ways, that we, in our cooperation with the government, have pushed and brought about major changes.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-408	Madam President, I would like The fact that I and Ali Esbati do not agree on the main features of this, one might say. Consequently, we have not said that we are going to carry out a reform of the Public Employment Service together. That's the difference here. The problem is that you can find representatives of the January parties in Parliament who actually say just anything to please anyone without taking responsibility for anything. My point, Madam President, is that reform cannot be pursued in this way. There must always be someone who takes responsibility. The Minister for Labour now declares that the Swedish Employment Service's signs should be available in all municipalities. When you ask her and her party friends, you don't get an answer. But I am pleased that the Center Party's Martin Ådahl can still give an answer, that is to say that Arbetsförmedlingen should exist throughout the country, in all 290 municipalities in Sweden. And it's not supposed to be some fake business. It's supposed to be real, important business. This is a message that I believe many municipalities have asked for. But the problem is again: Why could Serkan Köse not give that message? So we should be referred around. We understand that's how it's going to happen. We will probably be referred around to various representatives of the January parties for two years. That is not acceptable. Someone has to own the reform. I say again that we have taken note of what Martin Ådahl promised in P1 Morrow on 27 November, that is, that the Swedish Public Employment Service will be in and have operations in all municipalities in Sweden. But, once again, can Martin Ådahl concretize what that activity should consist of?
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-413	Madam President, I would like This conversation is going around a little bit. I have been clear and made clear what it says in the regulation letter. It's readable. This is the way to manage, and it is the message given to Arbetsförmedlingen. People need to have different opinions. We've had that in these discussions. God knows that. But then we have landed in a very clear joint message. So I find it hard to see what this is all about. I also find it difficult to see the drama presented here when it comes to the fact that the Public Employment Service would not be present in all municipalities. I still find it difficult to understand why it would be something strange, strange or unattainable that the Employment Service must exist in all Swedish municipalities. It's obvious. Of course, there have also been enormous problems with this journey of change, with centralisation and closure of small offices. But that is where there has finally been a change of course, which we have pushed forward and where one should get to it. That everything in the current Employment Service doesn't work well, the gods know. But it's important that the Moderates are also clear about how they want it with the presence in all municipalities, but if they want the municipalities as actors and how they think about it – now it's not possible to be clear here, because the line shift is over. But I think it is good if they themselves have a clear line there. Should municipalities, which themselves add SEK 6 – 7 billion already, in addition to what the Public Employment Service does, also be able to be actors in certain situations, when it feels like the activity is not sufficiently active? Or isn't it supposed to be like that? There are many things to be said about that. In general, I do not think it is a particularly dramatic message that we should be present in all municipalities. On the contrary, it is an absolutely necessary objective that we will follow up this year. And that is a very clear message in the regulatory letter that is available for this year.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-419	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the matching work of the Swedish Public Employment Service, but the debate so far has been characterised by many other perspectives, which I naturally welcome. I note that, despite our differences, we still fundamentally agree that the Employment Service needs to be reformed, even if we want to achieve that goal by various means. Madam President, I would like I also note that the debate is characterised by many other things. I recognise that this has been a challenging time, not least for the hundreds of thousands of job seekers who have been put at a disadvantage over the past year and have not been given the help and support they are entitled to in order to get into employment. It has also been a very tough period for all employees at Arbetsförmedlingen who around the country have had a very tight working situation. Many have had to leave their jobs. Many have also chosen to leave their jobs on their own. Of course, this has had a negative impact on the business. It has also been tough for all external actors who have been hit hard by the last year's chaos at Arbetsförmedlingen. Many operators have gone bankrupt and the operators still active are impoverished. This is a consequence of the fact that the instructions have not worked and that the volumes to many actors have been low. Looking ahead, it is important to take into account the recommendations made by the Swedish National Audit Office in its report on the lack of effectiveness and equivalence in the matching work of Arbetsförmedlingen. In terms of labour market policy assessment, there are intensive discussions between us co-operative parties about how it should be designed, followed up and done in the right way – Patrik Björck is happy to talk a little quieter. This will, of course, be the most central tool for job seekers to be able to get the right help and efforts in the future. Madam President, I would like I want to make it clear that the Public Employment Service will continue to be responsible for labour market policy, but that a new system of freedom of choice will be introduced and the starting point, where external actors will match and equip job seekers for job vacancies. We need to reform the Employment Service in order to improve the effectiveness of labour market policy activities. Then it is a question of renouncing the tasks of the agency. The Authority should focus on, among other things, the monitoring of jobseekers and the independent actors to be included in the new system. The Agency also needs to be responsible for the labour market policy assessment, as I mentioned, for the new compensation system, for the digital infrastructure, and for statistics and analytical work. The compensation system will be set up on the basis of how well the actors manage to get the job seekers into sustainable employment. For us Liberals, it is extremely important for the idea-based sector to have a prominent role, because today many actors are doing a very important and good job to help those who are the furthest away from the labour market get into employment. That competence must not be lost. It is also important that cooperation between the new authority, the municipalities and the external actors is strengthened and that we can find good tripartite cooperation in order for cooperation to work at all stages. An investigation has been set up, as many others have done, to examine the legal possibilities for municipalities to take greater responsibility for labour market policy. But I want to make it clear that we Liberals believe that the Public Employment Service should continue to have the main responsibility for state labour market policy. What we want to focus on is to find a better collaboration. Madam President, I would like I welcome the fact that last autumn the opposition parties pulled the handbrake to give the reform a longer implementation period. Even my party leader, Nyamko Sabuni, was early out warning that the timetable would not hold, and the Liberals would not help to throw the baby out with the bathwater. To dare re-evaluate certain aspects of implementation is to take responsibility. In addition, the Public Employment Service is now given more time to conduct regular activities during the implementation period. I trust that the new Director-General, Maria Mindhammar, will do everything in her power to find the right course for the work ahead of her. However, Madam President, I would still like to focus a little on gender equality, which I have had in all the other debates that have dealt with labour market policy and the work of the Employment Service. I believe that it is through tireless work that we can bring about changes. This is exactly how the Swedish women's rights movement has been working for over 100 years to ensure that women are also subject to statutory rights and obligations in Sweden. It's something I'm very proud of. But I am less proud that Swedish equality does not apply to all women in our country today. Anyone who saw the report in the Cold Facts on Tuesday cannot claim with honour that women and men are treated equally by the Public Employment Service today, especially not foreign-born. Women receive much less support and effort than men to get to work. Today, more than 100 000 women are unemployed, and that is the group that is furthest away from the labour market. Arbetsförmedlingen is an authority that unfortunately does not seem to have seen these women or taken them more seriously. For all operations in 2017, men born abroad were over-represented. Let me give you some examples of this: Men were assigned 77 per cent of labour market training. 76% of the work experience was done by men. And 84 percent of the new jobs went to men. Seven years ago, the difference between men and women in jobs was good 10 per cent, but today the gap has increased to 20 per cent. After two years of labour market intervention, just over 50% of men have come to work, but not even one in five women has a job to go to even though we are in a boom, as we have been doing for many years. Madam President, I would like These statistics are not taken out of the air. These are the Swedish Public Employment Service's own figures and financial statements for 2017. Let us save precious time and retain intellectual integrity by not trying to trace the failures to either the January agreement or the opposition budget, which went through in the Riksdag in 2018. Unfortunately, this failure must be traced back to the work of the Red-Green feminist government in 2017, during the last parliamentary term. I usually say, if you integrate a woman, you integrate an entire family. But if we fail to integrate women, exclusion will continue to grow and inherit to the next generation, and it will have devastating consequences for our entire social development. This is a risk that Sweden cannot afford. For me as a liberal and feminist, it is about giving women and men the same chances of life, the same opportunities to become their own, the same opportunities to enter the labour market and the same opportunities to become economically independent. If we are to succeed in integration, we must succeed in gender equality. I will come back to this many times in future debates. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-441	Madam President, I would like What we are talking about here today is the Swedish National Audit Office's report on Arbetsförmedlingen's matching work. The report focuses on matching work and governance for a knowledge-based approach. The Swedish National Audit Office has studied documents and conducted interviews with employment agencies, managers and employees at the head office. Behind these descriptions are, of course, all the people who depend on good contributions from the Public Employment Service in different parts of the country. It is important to know that you get the right support in your situation. The Swedish National Audit Office made four recommendations: three for the Swedish Public Employment Service and one for the Government. The recommendations to Arbetsförmedlingen are that they should develop the follow-up of the working methods used, review how analytical resources are used to evaluate and develop the Authority's methods and ensure that labour market policy assessments are equivalent and effective throughout the country. The Government is directed to follow up Arbetsförmedlingen's activities with labour market policy assessments. The Swedish National Audit Office points out that there is no direct regulation or a mission to the Authority in this regard. The Government has welcomed the review and agrees with the conclusions: that there is a risk of inefficiency and equivalence in the matching work of Arbetsförmedlingen. The Government also agrees that Arbetsförmedlingen's work with labour market policy assessments should be followed up. On the other hand, in view of the major restructuring of the Employment Service which is currently under way, the Government considers it necessary to await the reform before the arrangements for monitoring the labour market assessment can be further developed. We in the Green Party think that this is a reasonable position. The recommendations that have been raised will of course be taken on board by the Swedish Public Employment Service and taken on board in its work. They also rhyme very well with the broad mandate given by the Government to Arbetsförmedlingen in May 2019. Analysing is now at its best. The fact that the government would in this situation give a specific mandate to the Employment Service on labour market policy assessments and how to follow them up would simply be counterproductive. There is a great risk that assignments will be fragmented and poorly coherent. However, the views of the Swedish National Audit Office are of course included as a valuable basis in the continued work, and this will be put into a larger context. The ability to match as well as possible and to be knowledge-based is a given and important matter for all those people who need the support of the Employment Service. With that, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-451	Madam President, I would like Some cases get big, loud, long debates and a lot of media space without earning it, while some issues that actually deserve debate and big headlines do not get it. This is such a matter. Today we have the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the primary school's knowledge assignments on the table. According to the School Act in Sweden, the purpose and purpose of the school is to apply to all children in Sweden, including pupils in special school. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office's report is sad reading in Sweden 2020. On point after point it is shown that primary school in Sweden does not get the same decision or follow-up as the ordinary primary school. I would like to mention some of the things that the national auditors write: There has been insufficient follow-up and evaluation of primary schools. The Swedish National Agency for Education has given up evaluations of primary schools, says the auditors. The auditors also say that it is difficult to compare the quality of teaching because grades are not given unless parents ask for grades. Since 2013, there have been performance indicators to follow up on the knowledge in ordinary comprehensive school. In primary school there are no individual indicators. In 2011, we decided on new hourly plans for comprehensive school. Since then, the hours in comprehensive school have been expanded in several subjects, but not in special school. In 2017, the syllabuses for comprehensive school in Sweden were also revised, but not for special school. As late as 1 July 2019, the curricula for comprehensive school were clarified in terms of safety and education, when our principals were given greater responsibility for ensuring safety and education in comprehensive school. It wasn't about the principals in special school. In addition, according to our auditors, the 2019 budget bill does not provide any information from the school authority regarding primary school – neither evaluations, supervision nor quality reviews. 中 Teachers in comprehensive school have assessment support in all subjects. For special education, there are only two subjects. On point after point, the auditors show that special schools in Sweden are a forgotten group. Last year, 11,140 children attended primary school. There are 555 schools and several thousand teachers, hire da and principals who are not affected by the changes we make to the school regarding hourly plans, school laws and other things. One has simply forgotten the special school. I find it sad, Madam President. Now that I am in favour of the Moderate reservation, I would like to conclude by saying that if I were a minister of school or a member of one of the government or cooperation parties, I would be ashamed to have forgotten about the disabled children in special schools, their parents and also the staff.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-464	Madam President, I would like The review that the Swedish National Audit Office has carried out of the primary school's knowledge assignments is very important. It is important because we need to focus on the fact that the school law applies to every kid in this country. Regardless of the school form, all students in the Swedish school must according to the law be given the guidance and encouragement that they need in their learning and in their personal development. They should be able to develop as far as possible on the basis of their own conditions. Every kid has the right to reach their full potential. Madam President, I would like In a letter to the Riksdag, the Government has incorporated the Swedish National Audit Office's conclusions and recommendations and has taken a number of measures as a result of the review. The Government has decided on a directive for an investigator to analyse and submit proposals for hourly plans and analyse teachers' needs when assessing and monitoring students' knowledge development, just as the Swedish National Audit Office says. As the members of the committee know, eight days ago there was a referral from the Government Office. The memorandum also proposes that the curricula for primary, secondary and special schools should be clarified in terms of safety and studyo, which is also addressed in this review. The Government has also decided on an amendment to the regulation on official statistics that allows the Swedish National Agency for Education to collect sensitive data relating to health for pupils in, among other things, primary schools. It improves the ability to account for development in primary school, which is particularly important. I have spent many years working on the committee's review of the government – follow-up and evaluation, quite simply – and we pointed out to the government only in December that the committee lacks indicators to monitor developments. The government now believes that it should be easier for them to account for this, and we must certainly hope so. Whatever government we have, I promise that the committee will continue to examine this. The Government also shares the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that the Swedish National Agency for Education's work regarding special school should be developed, and the Swedish National Agency for Education's opinion states that the work has begun in accordance with the proposals. I note that these are quite serious remarks from the Swedish National Audit Office. But I also think that they have been dealt with in a serious, committed and careful manner. Madam President, I would like People with intellectual disabilities are as unique as other people. They have strengths and weaknesses, different personality traits and abilities. I think we should have that entrance when we discuss these issues. During my 13 years in Parliament, it has never been a conflict issue to tear down obstacles and increase opportunities for this group. On the contrary, we have usually hooked arms and made joint statements to the government and such things. Whatever the government, it has been that way, and it is needed. There is also a need for a blowtorch in primary school. You actually have to say that sometimes. I also know that there is a strong commitment to the issue of special school in the parties to the January agreement. The strengthening of special education is highlighted in one of the points of the agreement. I believe in a structural change and improvement of this group's conditions, opportunities and life chances. It's quite possible. I would also like to comment on the reservations of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. I agree with Kristina Olin that this issue really deserves a debate, and we have it right now. I am thinking of the part about a special and long-term strategy for special education. I understand that there is sometimes a need for special solutions. We need to strengthen the possibility of getting help and personalised support. But our long-term strategies need to apply to everyone. Actually, I would like to see special school removed as a concept, changed name and became a development school. Leo Lust from Heby has suggested this, and there is a motion on the board of Parliament that we are going to talk about. Rasmus Westlund from Vadstena has also submitted a proposal to the Minister for Education. Change your name! The second part of the Moderate reservation on the matter concerns grades. Students who attend special school can receive grades if they want it or if the parents so request. I've been thinking a lot about this. Is it a good idea that grades would be compulsory? I agree that the focus of special education needs to be strengthened. Yes, I think it's important to bring documentation from upper secondary school. What you can and what you can contribute to in your professional life you need to bring with you. But at the same time, grades are a way to make selection and sort. It determines which upper secondary school programme you can enter and what eligibility you have for university or higher education. Unfortunately, if you have completed upper secondary school, you are not eligible for higher education. Elementary school pupils are entitled to upper secondary school. If, for any reason, a selection needs to be made for the national programmes in secondary school, it is the individual need that governs. I've never heard of it being a big problem. My conclusion is that it is more important to continue to take advantage of each individual's skills in order for the individual to reach his or her full potential throughout his or her life, to develop what needs to be developed rather than to spend the teacher's time grading more than 11,000 young people. I support the proposal in the report.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-481	Madam President, I would like It's interesting about the discussion. One of the suggestions that we made in our reservation was indeed a grade. I repeat what I began my speech with: The purpose and objectives of the School Act shall apply to all pupils in Sweden, including pupils in special school. If we in Parliament have decided on grades in school for all children, then it should also apply to children in special school. If you do not want grades, we Moderates believe that you should of course be allowed to ask to be excused, but as it is now, it is exactly the opposite, i.e. that no children in special school receive grades unless parents and children ask for it. I think that if the purpose and objectives of the school law are to apply to all children, the children in special school should of course also receive grades. It is interesting to hear the debate here, that we are nevertheless said to agree that special education is important and that all children should have the same rights. Yet the criticisms of the national auditors are so incredibly serious on a point-by-point basis. If we think so, it is incomprehensible to me that we miss special school when we make decisions on new curricula, hourly plans and school laws. It is obvious that both the government and the National Agency for Education forget the special school in the changes we decide on in this room. In this way, I cannot see that it would be the case that the Riksdag has agreed on special school for all decades. No, as I can see, it is clearly a group that the current government and majority have not given priority at all.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-484	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Kristina Axén Olin is as upset as she seems to be that the special school does not receive sufficient support, which it does not receive according to the national audit report. We can draw a historical line far back in the field of special education, from caring activities and all the way to now with a focus on knowledge. We have been in agreement in this House for at least my 13 years, and we have been good in committee with thinking about special school. In fact, that could be the case. Sometimes it is very important to get involved in an investigation that it also applies to special school, so that that perspective is not forgotten. I'm sure there's more to be done. Nevertheless, I think that the government has taken these remarks very seriously. Then there was the question of being entitled to grades. Actually, I don't know any group in school that's as well documented as these particular students. In order to be accepted at all in special school, four different investigations must be carried out. It is the educational, psychological and medical investigation as well as a social assessment. These children's knowledge is closely followed all the way. What can you contribute, and what will you become when you grow up? What is the purpose of grades in this context? Kristina Axén will be happy to tell me.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-487	Madam President, I would like Caroline Helmersson Olsson asks about grades and says that children who attend primary school are investigated and documented. But that's not what the grades can show. The grades can show whether the school is of quality and whether the teachers' teaching is working or not. According to what we can see from the national auditors' report, we have basically no information about this and have not had since 2011. No one has bothered to evaluate, do any quality reviews or follow up on teaching. Teachers in special education do not have the same assessment support. It's incredibly serious criticism. Caroline Helmersson Olsson says that the government has set up an investigation and says that it will be improved. Yeah, that sounds great, but how many investigations are we gonna have in the hall over things that don't work? Many of these things are just to be decided because it is obvious that you have simply forgotten 11 140 students, 555 schools and the employees of these schools. It's just a matter of making decisions here. There's no need for investigations. Swedish law applies to all children.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-489	Madam President, I would like Swedish law applies to all children. There's a deal. We also agree that we should continue to be a blowtorch even at special school. There needs to be a lot of work done. But if we're going to change things about the future of children in all school forms, it should be knowledge-based. Then there will be investigations, and we will look at research. I think it is good that these investigations are being set up.
i-JsT3vrxUS4BUAbuQxgucJX	Madam President, I would like The Liberals are in favour of the proposal in the Committee on Education's report on primary school. Let me begin by saying a few general words about this important form of school. The issue of special education has been criticised for many years to emphasise care too much, not the task of knowledge. It was the harshest criticism of the old special school, and it prompted the then People's Party Liberals in the Alliance Government to reform the School Act in order to emphasise that the knowledge requirements and the knowledge mission should also apply to the pupils in the primary school. It's extremely important. Grundsärsskolan and pupils in special school should also be entitled to a school of knowledge, just like all other children and students in Sweden. For a year and a half in this House, we have also raised the issue of preschool class on the way to primary school. The issue is not directly addressed in this national audit report but affects the entire school policy in the country. When compulsory special school was introduced in Sweden, compulsory preschool classes were not introduced for pupils belonging to the target group of special school pupils. This is remarkable, and it is totally unacceptable. We have repeatedly asked questions and pressured the Minister for Education and the Government on the need for national regulation and a national amendment of the Education Act. As long as there is a compulsory preschool class, children belonging to special school must also be allowed to attend a preschool class. We Liberals believe that, in the long term, this can be dealt with and resolved if we introduce ten-year primary school. Here, the Liberals have been driving for many years and have made two announcements to the government, and it is good that the issue is now being investigated by the current government. The introduction of ten-year primary school, which means replacing the compulsory preschool class and converting it into grade 1, would affect and improve and solve many of the problems that we see today in primary school. We agree with the tough criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office. It is the Swedish National Audit Office that has reviewed the primary school, but this is not the first time this criticism has been presented to the Riksdag and the Government. The National Agency for Education has pointed this out before. The school inspectorate has also pointed this out in the past. During the last ten years, changes have been made to the School Act with a focus on the knowledge assignment and how to enter and assess students. This applies, in particular, to the important secondary school, where the range of programmes was broadened. It was perhaps the most important reform that was made in upper secondary school – that not only are students brought in after primary school but actually give them an alternative way out into working life. It used to be very limited. When I was a municipal politician many years ago, they were limited to a couple of three programmes. The reform meant that there are now several vocational training courses to choose from and thus increased opportunities to get a foothold into the labour market. The Swedish National Audit Office's report – with the agreement of the government, which actually takes on all this criticism – is nevertheless serious and worrying. We have too little goal fulfillment in primary school and special school. We continue to have problems with many unauthorized teachers, uneducated teachers, who teach one of the most vulnerable groups of students in the sense that they need special support and extra support adapted to their needs. The most important thing for the Liberals is that this with stimulation, development and focus on knowledge assignments and that one should reach as far as one can only on the basis of one's conditions must apply to primary school as well. The worrying and sad message in the National Audit Office's report, Madam President, is that we are not there yet. It is particularly painful to read that teachers and principals in their dialogue with the Swedish National Audit Office say that they feel that their students are not as much worth or not counted in the same way as pupils in other comprehensive schools. I hope this sends a clear signal right into the House of R Iksdag and the Government Office that this must be dealt with. As part of the January Agreement and as part of the Liberal coalition, in the sense that we have an agreement on 73 points, we have received a point to review the inclusion idea and support for pupils in need of special support and pupils with disabilities. This applies to everything from special schools and special teaching groups to resource schools and special schools. Thanks to that point in the January agreement, the government decided, on our initiative, to include issues relating to inclusion in the investigation directive, and at some point at the end of February or the beginning of March, a proposal that I hope will respond to the criticisms will come. How do we ensure the competence of teachers? Training opportunities are not enough. We've got the Teacher Lift. Liberals have contributed to its extension, but it must include more teachers and more orientations. We have the assessment support. Of course, students in primary school should receive grades, and the Swedish National Agency for Education must give teachers the same assessment basis in order for them to be able to rate. It is extremely important that we can monitor the results of knowledge and the development of knowledge in primary school as well. Anything else is unacceptable.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-501	Madam President, I would like The Green Party wants to ensure that the most important provision of the School Act becomes a reality. Children and pupils should acquire and develop knowledge and values. The education will promote the development and learning of all children and pupils, as well as a lifelong desire to learn. This applies to all children in Swedish school, even in primary school. The education shall take into account the different needs of children and pupils. Children and pupils should be supported and encouraged to develop as far as possible. In order for us in the Swedish Parliament, which is ultimately responsible, to be able to ensure that this becomes a reality, we need good reports and good documentation. Then we need evaluations from the government that give it to us, and in order for it to become a real reality, teachers and others who work in primary school need the tools they need in their work. Today we are debating an audit from the Swedish National Audit Office. The Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusion is that the needs of primary schools have not been adequately met in the state efforts to steer, support and follow up. That is serious criticism. The Swedish National Audit Office notes, among other things, that the number of assessment support is lower for teachers in primary school than for those in primary school. But it is not true, as Kristina Axén Olin claimed, that there are only two subjects for assessment. Thankfully, developments have already taken place here. This is also stated in the report of the Committee on Education and Training. On this point, as well as other points, the government reports that it takes the criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office seriously. Measures have already been taken to respond to the criticism that is being made, and that is important. The Government has, among other things, decided on a directive for an investigator to analyse and make proposals as to whether the hours of primary school should be changed. The investigator will also analyse teachers' needs for assessment and follow-up of students' knowledge development in subjects and subject areas and provide suggestions for tools that teachers may need in the work of assessing students' knowledge development in relation to knowledge requirements. The government has also decided to amend the regulation on official statistics, which has been one of the obstacles to our being able to gain knowledge of what it looks like in the country's primary schools. That is also very positive. But, Madam President, I think it is a bad suggestion that all primary school pupils should receive grades. Generally speaking, I think there is an overbelief that grades for more people further down the age should solve all kinds of problems that you see in Swedish school. Of course, the grade is very simple in that it is only a number or a letter – an A or an F. And grades are good for, for example, selection for future studies. But, Madam President, grades also come with risks – risks to children's self-esteem when the simplified term is after the child's name and risks to mental health and the desire to learn. Especially those students who are weaker in a subject and get the bad grades are at risk of being affected. Therefore, grades should not be used if they do not fulfil an important function. And since all children in primary school have the right to continue studying in upper secondary school while upper secondary school does not have the opportunity to apply to higher education and universities do not fulfil the function of special school as they do in primary and secondary schools. Today it is possible for those students who still want grades to get it. Maybe it's the students who perform quite well and want the clear, simple receipt of it. I think we should maintain that order, and I do not understand why the Moderates want to put F on children when it actually does not serve any purpose. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to remind you of another issue related to the issue of special education, namely the issue of what to call it. During his time as Minister of Education, Gustav Fridolin received suggestions from pupils in special school for a name change to a development school. This is something the Green Party supports. We want to see the name change and think it is particularly important that this is a wish that comes from the very students who go there. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-514	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to have this little discussion about grades or not in special school, which is a detail that the national auditors do not really address. We Moderates want a quality measurement system for Swedish schools. We want all schools and the quality of teaching to be measured so that schools can be compared to each other. This would be a way of seeing how special schools work around the country, what improvement potential exists and how they develop. Now we do not have such a system, but I hope that we will have a majority in this House to introduce quality measurements of the type that take place in many other countries around the world, for example in Norway, which are close to us. Until then, grades are still a way to see if the school is successful and whether you maintain a good quality of teaching or not. However, those who, depending on some type of functional variation, want to avoid grades should of course be able to request it. But I want to repeat what I have now said several times: The purpose and objectives of the School Act should apply to all students in Sweden. We have this in writing, and that is what should apply. Obviously, that is not the case. The audit by the Swedish National Audit Office and the report on special education are terrible on point after point. Obviously, the government and the previous government, which sat during the last parliamentary term, have completely forgotten the primary school. We have decided on all kinds of changes here, which have applied to both Sami school and regular primary school, but not special school. It's terrible – we have over 11,000 children who go there, people who work there and principals who don't want anything more than to get the same changes that have been decided on for ordinary elementary school. But this school has just been lifted away.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-519	Madam President, I would like Kristina Axén Olin talks about her proposal to give grades to all primary school students as a Perhaps that letter is a detail in Kristina Axén Olin's life, but for the child who comes home with a piece of paper where it says F, F, F and F it is no detail. Quality assessment and measurement are important; there the committee agrees. But quality measurement can never be more important than ensuring that all children can develop as far as possible, feel good and retain the lifelong desire to learn. In fact, I wonder whether it will even be such a good tool for measuring quality if, as Kristina Axén Olin suggests, it will still be possible to opt out of grades. Then it won't cover everyone. This proposal by the Moderates is perhaps not the most thought-out. The fact is that we agree on most of the rest of this report. I would also like to correct a claim made by Kristina Axén Olin that the law would not apply equally to everyone. The School Act applies to everyone, and certain provisions are general, such as the opening portal clauses. But we also have different rules for different types of school, and there are good reasons why primary and primary schools have partly different rules. What the Swedish National Audit Office has pointed out is that there are sometimes unjustified differences, especially when it comes to the attention the school form has received in various evaluations or the time it has taken to implement different changes in curricula and more. Here we agree in the Committee on Education.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-523	Madam President, I would like Annika Hirvonen Falk criticises my proposal that the grading criteria should apply in the same way to primary school pupils as to ordinary primary school pupils. This is interesting. Now Roger Haddad has left the room, but obviously you are not in agreement in the January parties on this issue because Roger Haddad agreed with what I said and said that everyone should of course have grades. Now he's out of the hall, so we'll see about that. In my world, children don't get F if the teacher is good and puts the teaching on the right level. Pupils in primary school should have the same rights to good teaching as everyone else; this is not what it is about. Rating is one way to still see the quality. If I were Annika Hirvonen Falk, I'd be a little dressatively humbled by the fact that this is a terrible reading. On point-by-point, it has clearly been said that primary school has been forgotten. In some areas, the national auditors even say that the National Agency for Education has given the primary school a priority when it comes to a number of different things. I think that we should be humble and say, as Mrs Caroline of the Social Democrats said earlier, that we tend to agree that these children are important and have the same right to a good schooling. What the national auditors show in this report is not this but something else. I would be ashamed to have been in the lead in this house for so many years when it still looks like this. I do not think that is acceptable.
i-c4ff4ff964d1954d-527	Madam President, I would like It is very sad that Kristina Axén Olin has not understood the message that I have tried to convey, namely that I share the view that the criticism of the Swedish National Audit Office is very serious. I think it is good that we in the committee agree on this and that the government has taken action on all the points where the National Audit Office has made recommendations. What I criticise are some of the Moderates' proposals, which the National Audit has not supported. Today, students in primary school will never receive F; in that case, they will receive no grade at all. I think it's a good order. Grades for pupils in primary and secondary schools do not fulfil the selection function of the grades in comprehensive school and upper secondary school. Therefore, it is a good order that students and guardians can choose for themselves if they want grades. I see this from the students' perspective. I understand that the Moderates want all students in primary school to receive grades so that we politicians can more easily see how knowledge progresses. In the choice between using grades to understand how the primary school's knowledge development is going and to see what's best for the students who go there, I choose the latter. That is why I would like to support the proposal in the report which rejects the Moderates' proposal.
