i-7546575806ed9b03-0	Mr President, I would like to Two weeks ago, we entered a new decade. On New Year's Eve, people gathered around the country and called out the old one and called in the new one. For many, the twelve is a moment of hope – hopes for their own life, of course, but also for our country, for the outside world and for the future. We now have an important year and an important decade for Sweden ahead of us. I hope that the political debate will be tough and tough, but that it will be conducted with respect and with a focus on what we want to achieve. The people we represent and the country we lead deserve that we cooperate and take responsibility for the future so that people's hopes for Sweden can come true. Mr President, I would like to The start of the new year has given a brutal reminder of the importance of international cooperation as well. A civilian aircraft, including Swedes on board, was shot down. It's a terrible tragedy. I feel very strongly about all of you who have lost family, loved ones. The message is, you are not alone. We share your grief. Mistakes or not, we condemn the shooting and the initial denial. We demand that Iran now take full responsibility. In the further investigation Iran needs to cooperate without restriction, without or without prejudice. Affected countries shall have full transparency in the investigation and the opportunity to participate with national expertise in order to fully clarify the responsibilities and circumstances of the shooting. Mr President, I would like to The recent military and rhetorical escalation in the Gulf is very serious. The risk of an escalating spiral of violence with devastating consequences persists. The government continues to monitor developments and take action. There is a continuing need for joint EU coordination, and Sweden will promote restraint, dialogue throughout the region and a political solution. In Australia, brutal fires have erupted. People have died and men, women and children have lost their homes when the fire masses have destroyed everything in their path. We feel with the Australian population, but we also need to do what is absolutely necessary, namely to stop climate change. Sweden's work for this continues intensively and continuously, at home and internationally, by listening to the research and with the goal of becoming the generation that succeeds in the transformation. In a troubled world, Sweden should always be a voice and guarantor of democracy, human rights and international cooperation. But to be so, we need a strong and robust society here at home. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's major project for the next decade needs to be the restoration of a strong community built on community. We have built a strong country in Sweden before. Folkhemsbygget started almost 100 years ago. It was a difficult project, but by prioritising general welfare and the idea that all residents should be equal, Sweden became a thriving country. It's time again. Our welfare state needs repair, equality is a priority and security is guaranteed. The Social Democrats are the Swedish Welfare Party. We have said it for a long time, and I am happy to say it again: yes, more money will be needed for municipalities and regions, because welfare always comes first.
i-7546575806ed9b03-8	But even today, in a strong society, there is no place for piglets. Systems where companies allow people with private health insurance to take priority in the care queue need to be broken. Care should be given to those who need it most, not to those who have paid for a better queue. The school election system, which benefits those whose parents had the foresight to put their child in line shortly after the umbilical cord had been cut, also needs to be changed. The equality of schools must be strengthened. In a strong society, our rules apply everywhere, in all residential areas. That's why we're gonna keep giving the police all the support they need to put an end to shootings, explosions, and teenage recruitments. Our strong society does not look between its fingers when crime and abuse are committed in the name of any culture or religion. We make no distinction between skin color, ethnicity or religion. Our strong society is based not only on the public but also on the idea that every person contributes to society by perhaps raising children, being active in a pensioner's organisation or engaging in a women's shelter. Our society is built on duty and right. Then every person should know: D u is a part of society. We are all part of our community. We all do our duty for Sweden. But in exchange, we have a society that will do everything to make your tomorrow something to look forward to. Our community is always inclusive but never unconditional. Duty and justice apply to everyone. You who were born in another country but are now part of our country's community have the same duty and the same right. You are equal to your neighbors whose family may have lived here for generations. Welfare, security, equality, and we will restore the strong society. That's how we take responsibility for the future. This is how Sweden's projects look like this coming decade. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish folk home was built in a troubled world by a generation that had starvation in fresh memory. When you think about it, the idea becomes staggering at what Sweden can actually achieve today. We will take responsibility for our country, and we will do so by always prioritising jobs and welfare. We take responsibility for the future, and we do so by restoring the strong society, building security in everyday life for people and contributing to common security in our world. So we make this decade a strong decade for Sweden.
i-7546575806ed9b03-13	Mr President, I would like to We're on the threshold of a new decade. The new 20th century has just begun. We are also facing a year full of threats and opportunities. Monday's bombings in Stockholm and Uppsala show that we have a historic task ahead of us. Serious crime, exclusion, immigration, bad integration, school failures – all this requires our full commitment now if Sweden is to get better then. It's only if we do what we have to do that we can become what we want. I believe in Sweden. I've been doing that my whole life. I was raised in the conviction that effort and hard work produce results, whether at school, in the sports hall or at work. Millions of Swedes are shaped by the very same ideal: that problems are there to be solved. If what you have tried so far does not work, you must try something better and learn from mistakes, your own and those of others. This should also apply to Swedish politics. In the 1990s, Sweden took on its long-standing economic problems. Then major reforms were launched that laid the foundation for many years of growth. In the 00's, many, both to the right and to the left, realized that exclusion had become Sweden's major problem. Göran Persson said that sick leave should be halved. The Alliance government restored the work line. I therefore base my optimism on the fact that together we have solved difficult problems before and can do so again. It is not naivety, let alone abandonment, but a realistic optimism. The reforms that reduced budget deficits and increased growth took time. The work line took years, so it was urgent. But we looked at the problems in the face, and we spoke clearly. We stood up even when the lute was difficult to implement. It is only if you take the problems seriously and have an idea of what should be done instead that you can lead and succeed. Sweden must now see the potential of our documented ability to achieve success. We need to move from words to action, because we are in a serious situation. Social development is, to say the least, terrible. Misbelief sprouts, trust capital is devalued, abuse hails and leadership shines with its absence. This is not my Sweden. This government has lost control of subsidy fraud and dependency, lost control of crime and care queues, lost control of immigration and integration and lost control of who even exists in Sweden. This government has lost control of the development of society itself. Over the last three years, 130 people have been shot to death, and there have been nearly 1 000 shootings. Sweden has the second highest number of killings across the EU. The explosions are unprecedented internationally. First there were hand grenades and now there are also homemade bombs. Houses and cars are blown up. Two people have been killed, and more lives are at risk if nothing is done. It was a wonder no one was injured by the bombs the other night. But last Friday in Uppsala, a child, a 16-year-old kid, was killed. I remember that after the death abuse in Stockholm in October 2007, 10,000 people demonstrated in Kungsträdgården against street violence. But you don't do that in January 2020. This is a worn-out phrase, but violence must not be normalized. At the same time, welfare is on its knees and municipalities are forced to lay off staff even though the population is growing. Hardworking taxpayers cannot trust that welfare works. The cancer queues have doubled since this government took office, and as more and more young people feel bad, the queues for child and youth psychiatry have tripled. Reports of fraud in grants relieve each other, and it deals with everything from an Iraqi Minister of Defence to systematic mispayments in Malmö. A couple of days ago, the newspaper Hem & Hyra reported about a woman who is mistaken to have tricked half a million in grants. Growing problems therefore require tougher priorities. Then you review your plans and make new decisions. That is why tomorrow the Moderates will put a fully funded extra budget on the table of the Committee on Finance. It contains more money for the welfare and Swedish municipalities and more money for the police and the judiciary. It will now be the task of Parliament to set the right priorities if this government cannot or does not want to. If we don't get hold of this, something will break in Sweden that may not be fixed at all. It is about taxpayers' trust in society's institutions and people's trust in each other. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, social problems grow every day while the government divides the order on its 73 points. Stefan Lövven's government is not able to make the necessary decisions or to give the right priority to our tax money. In SVT's measurement 11 per cent of the Swedish people had respect for the January agreement. More and more people are now asking themselves the question: Has anything at all improved in Sweden over the past year? The only thing that could actually solve the political paralysis in our country is an extra choice. Then the cards are put back on the table. The Swedish people will have to make a new decision on how Sweden will begin the new decade. Are you happy, or should we change direction? A new mandate can be given and a new mandate can be taken. If you can't lead the country, you shouldn't lead the country. In the Moderates, we are now politically and organisationally ready to face the electorate again. Sweden needs a new government as soon as possible.
i-7546575806ed9b03-28	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, we have to say that the past year, 2019, was a lost year in many ways. The insecurity, fragmentation and injustices continued to penetrate Sweden deeper and deeper as a nation, continued to divide our country and society, and continued to strike wedges between people. There were 236 explosions in the framework until mid-November, and until mid-December 316 confirmed shootings, 38 of which resulted in deaths. Nearly half of the country's 20 - 24 - year - olds choose to take another route or another route because of their fear of being subjected to crime. These are not just figures, Mr President. This is the cold, harsh reality of many people living in Sweden today, where the escalating crime and insecurity force you to change and adapt your life. You have to adapt to a chaotic environment that makes increasingly clear impressions in everyday life. You have to give up some of the freedom that many of us take for granted. Mr President, I would like to The inability to deal with these deep-rooted problems means that not even a tenth of the Swedish people think that the government's policy is up to date. What is even more remarkable is that even the government parties' own voters are not particularly impressed. Just over two out of ten think that the left-wing liberal policy is good enough. That says a lot. When not even the own sympathizers understand the reasonableness of what is going on, it has gone very, very far. Mr President, I would like to We have a government that has no sense of crisis. We have a government that completely lacks the ability to see real problems and consequently lacks the ability to identify solutions to the problems. We have a government base that is so fragmented in the quest to find any red thread that it can be considered an impossible mission. The era of Pyttipaniskapolitik, Mr President, began with Stefan Löfven and Annie Lööf and hopefully ends with Stefan Löfven and Annie Lööf. Even in this situation, when welfare is crumbling, when expenditures run out, when social, cultural and economic divisions have become so intrusive, we are not getting anything like a rational reaction from the government. It's astoundingly bad. Instead of putting an end to the failed policy, it continues. You keep going in the same direction. Last year, nearly 120 000 residence permits were granted in our country. 120,000 people in a year. This corresponds to the country's twelfth largest city, Lund. Mr President, I would like to We're gonna have to end this now. There must be an end to the politics of empty talk and the end of flosskeler. We must put an end to the de facto blinding policy that has brought nothing but harm to our country. Our elderly, our sick and our children and young people should not have to pay the bill when politics fails. A chain of clear political decisions is needed to bring about some kind of reversal of the negative development we see. A policy that seeks to achieve a net minute in terms of migration is an absolute prerequisite. Clear signals that indicate that Sweden is full must be sent out. Denmark has done so. Finland has done so. Norway has done it. And Sweden must do it. We also need to repair the holes that have been torn up in our welfare system. Healthcare and care workers must be given peace and quiet work. The municipalities need sufficient and far greater resources than the government has been able to provide. Mr President, I would like to We also need to strengthen the whole chain of justice.
i-7546575806ed9b03-38	Mr President, I would like to The journey from home to me in Gävle here to Stockholm takes about an hour and a half by train. It is a journey that takes me from one of Norrland's largest labour market regions across fields and through forests. The train passes Uppsala with its academic pulse and continues through towns and industrial areas where small businesses and well-known brands work side by side. Finally, I end up here, in the middle of the capital. It is an hour and a half journey through what builds Sweden strong: the interaction between industry and academia, between the green industries, the smaller companies, the logistics centres and the export companies. But it is also a journey that reminds us of the importance of a policy that strengthens all of this and understands that the conditions and needs are different depending on where you step on or get off. Although Sweden is a country that in many ways goes very well for – we are living longer and longer, 5 million people have a job to go to and our companies are world leaders in many areas – there are great challenges. If Sweden is to become a safer and stronger country, we must be able to meet the challenges. Then we must continue to reduce taxes on companies while at the same time changing the Swedish labour market so that it can find its first job with low or no education. Then we must strengthen the Swedish judiciary, get more policemen out on our streets and arrest and punish those who commit crimes or recruit others to commit crimes. We must close the gap between town and country and ensure that those who are involved in and contribute or who have already done so during their entire working lives have the same access to good care and health care, regardless of where they live. The Center Party has been a strong driving force for Swedish healthcare, which is now being strengthened. We have done so through a queue billion which has already given the desired effect in terms of shorter queues, through more money for child and youth psychiatry and for a new primary care reform. These are important steps forward for closer and better Swedish healthcare. But, Mr President, there is still much more to be done. The Center Party wants to see an expanded student health with more curators and school nurses. We want to see more preventive work in health care for our elderly and create even more career paths for all fantastic healthcare professionals, who maintain and develop world-class care every day. All of this would develop Swedish healthcare so that it would be even better. But the reality we are facing now also requires politicians who take responsibility for the economy, who invest in what gives development and growth and who understand to use every penny of tax with reason. It also requires greater responsibility from the state. In the 2020 budget, we add another SEK 5 billion to municipalities and regions. That's good. But that will not be enough. Swedish health care needs more money. We see a need to raise many billions during this term of office. The Center Party will therefore in the budget negotiations starting now this spring push for more money for municipalities and regions, to ensure that the whole of Sweden will have access to safe and accessible healthcare. This is how we take responsibility for reducing the gap between city and country and for building a stronger Sweden. In the days it is a year since the Center Party participated and took a broad responsibility for Sweden through the January agreement. Thanks to the influence of the Center Party, Sweden gained a government that protects openness and tolerance, which is pushing for liberal reforms and which is in favour of a results-oriented environmental and climate policy and more jobs and stronger companies throughout the country. It is a policy that bears clear traces of our negotiating success and builds on our basic idea that what strengthens the individual and our companies also strengthens Sweden as a country. The Center Party will continue its efforts to reduce the differences in Sweden, to close the gap between those who have a job and those who do not have it and between those who choose to live in the city or to live far out in the countryside. We will continue to fight for a country where more people feel secure and where deadly violence and organised crime are being repressed. We will choose to do what is right over what is easy. That's the only way we can take all of Sweden forward.
i-MGqU3zS1usbvVMRGfScwE3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! The January Agreement turned one year the other day. The popular celebration in the streets and squares was moderate and limited. Last year we had a budget coming from the right. It came from the Moderates and Christian Democrats and was supported by the Swedish Democrats. It meant reduced taxes for those who earn a lot and too little money for welfare. I could tell. This year we have a budget from the January parties. It means reducing taxes for those who earn the most and too little money for regions and municipalities. The welfare crisis is deepening in Sweden. And I can tell. When I was in Luleå, I visited village schools as municipal management, in something similar to panic, tried to close down and then repent. In Kiruna, two out of three student assistants are allowed to go, although they are needed. In Eskilstuna, the municipality wants to sell out the municipal dwelling stock. The tenants are protesting. And in the hospitals in Stockholm, where the staff are under heavy pressure, hundreds will be dismissed. In Gothenburg, protesters gather outside the municipal council meetings. The council doesn't really know what it's doing. This is how it looks all over Sweden. It is the government's responsibility to ensure that the welfare crisis in Sweden is lifted. Yesterday, the Left Party declared that we want to see at least SEK 10 billion extra for municipalities and regions. It is needed only to maintain the quality of service we have today. Actually, more is needed. And in fact, next year is even more needed. It is not possible to promise reduced taxes to those who have the most and at the same time say: It won't hold. It's a political choice. I hope that today we will be told by the government that they are keeping what they said in the election campaign that welfare comes first. It's time to give that message now. It is not good enough to say that it will be given in April or that it will come next year. This is the moment when the student assistants are allowed to go to Kiruna. It is now that the open preschools are being shut down. It is now the nurses in the emergency room in Stockholm are thinking about whether they can still work. It's time to act. The welfare crisis makes Sweden more unequal, more insecure. People are thinking about whether they need private health insurance and whether they can trust the children's school. But the government wants to go further and make Sweden even more insecure and even more unequal. They want to break the job security of employees. If the rules of rotation, as stipulated in the January agreement, are reduced, it is a recipe for discretion. It's a recipe for the boss to be able to point out the one who's worn himself out like the one who's allowed to walk. It is a recipe for anyone who has spoken against an unjust treatment to be the one allowed to go when the company withdraws. It's a bad system. A system in which free trade unions with good legislation in their backs negotiate is a system that works and which must be protected. We risk getting quiet and saving jobs. On the contrary, we need to do the opposite: get rid of general fixed-term work, do something about the abuse of temporary work agencies and improve the daily lives of those who have hourly employment with too few hours and wait for the text message on the phone. It's the only thing that makes sense. The government also wants to introduce market rents in new production. It is quite obvious what happens to market rents and acute housing shortages. The rents are rising. The segregation is increasing. Overcrowding is increasing. Profits for property owners are increasing. Desperation for those who do not receive a dwelling is increasing. The Swedish housing market does not suffer from too low rents. It suffers from too few apartments with reasonable rents. This is solved by providing support linked to reasonable rent, by expanding loans and by having a plan to eliminate the housing shortage. Tenants today are often too powerless. Too many people get to leave their apartment after a renovation that they never asked to get as thorough as it was done. The January agreement largely has a bad content. But the January Agreement is also based on an illusion. It is based on the illusion that the January parties have a majority. In fact, we have a small minority government with minority cooperation. Such a government will have a very shaky journey if it does not recognise the situation and act accordingly. I hope that the government will soon reach that realization and start talking to those who want to build prosperity stronger, who want secure and permanent jobs and who want you to be able to get a home that you can afford.
i-7546575806ed9b03-58	Mr President, I would like to Winston Churchill is said to have said that what qualifies a person to carry a political position of trust is their ability to predict what will happen tomorrow, next week, next month and next year and then explain why it did not happen. We Christian Democrats obviously do not meet these churchillic demands, for the predictions we made almost exactly a year ago about what the January agreement would lead to have unfortunately all come true. We warned that the lack of common vision would put political leadership behind bars. We warned that cooperation and compromises would be made more difficult rather than facilitated. We warned that the January agreement would in practice give small parties on the outside veto on important issues. This year we have seen how the Green Party stopped the government from settling gang crime and migration. We warned that this agreement would hinder constructive bourgeois cooperation in the Riksdag. Now, many times, we see the Centre Party and the Liberals reject cooperation and try to find common ways forward with reference to the January agreement. In practice, the liberal parties have left bourgeois cooperation in parliament and in their daily work. We warned that the agreement would lead to a tax policy that would only benefit those with the highest incomes but would not give anything to low and middle earners. Now that the first budget of the January parties has become a reality, a big bank CEO has had a tax cut of 62 300 SEK a month. But the nurse, the carer, and the police, who protect and care for us, did not receive a single penny more in their wallet. We warned that this agreement would counter its own purpose, namely to fight against the Swedish Democrats, and that this party would risk growing further. Today, several opinion institutes show that SD is Sweden's largest party. We warned that if the browning, the smearing, the insinuations, and the hysterical parables were rewarded, they would only continue and get worse. Now we see how the Prime Minister himself drops to the level of calling the opposition blue brown. This is happening at the same time as almost 80 000 patients have been waiting illegally for the care they need for a long time, while the government's own department shows that there is a need to build 26 000 new retirement homes – there is no plan for how to do it – and while the police have had to introduce in their statistics a new category of offences for the blasts. This is what politics should be about: solving social problems and keeping Sweden's best interests in mind. It didn't have to be like this. The bourgeois opposition was and is ready to shoulder responsibility for Sweden based on a common vision of community with a policy that puts man ahead of the system and where one understands the importance of prioritising. That is what should be the central qualification when looking for cooperation to build a government on. When Stefan Löfven and Magdalena Andersson took office, they had a boom to manage. It should have been used to ensure welfare and security. Instead, unemployment is rising for the sixth consecutive month. We're heading into a recession. Should Sweden be led by the same red duo that wasted the good years? I do not think that either the Center Party or the Liberals think so deep down. It's not too late to redo and do the right thing. Come home to the bourgeoisie and give Sweden a new leadership! KD is a welfare party and the alternative in Swedish politics that has the courage to prioritise welfare and knowledge of how welfare needs to be reformed. We are a vote for those who otherwise no one has: for the elderly, for the disabled, for the patients. This is based on good values and the realization that man must be put ahead of the system. Based on this, we are prepared to seek the opportunity to give Sweden a new government by 2020.
i-7546575806ed9b03-68	Mr President, I would like to Liberals admire all courageous democracy activists. We have seen them in Hong Kong, Venezuela, Russia and most recently in Iran. It is women and men who risk their lives. Their desire for freedom and democracy is stronger than their fear. We see you, we support you and we admire you. Liberals have pushed for democracy aid to become an increasingly important part of Sweden's foreign policy. Our sister party Liberal Democrats in Taiwan won a convincing victory this weekend in the presidential and parliamentary elections. Democratic activists in Hong Kong have reminded the Taiwanese of the risks of submitting to communist rule. Let the 20th century be a decade when we take decisive steps forward for democracy in the world! Mr President, I would like to Liberal reforms in the 20th and 21st centuries have given people more power over their lives. Many reforms have met resistance from the right and left but are widely accepted today. That has been the case historically, and that is the way forward. It is about gender equality reforms, language tests for citizenship, a strong Swedish defence, the fight against honour repression, the restoration of the school of knowledge, relevant penalties for criminals and more police officers. The same applies to strategically reduced taxes for increased prosperity and reregulations for more new jobs and more new rental housing. Much is done, but more is to be done. For over a hundred years, the Liberals have formed collaborations in the Riksdag to take Sweden forward together. Political action is important. The ability to engage is equally important; it was necessary, for example, for the ongoing re-regulation of the Public Employment Service. Where the January agreement does not solve or intend to solve social problems, the Liberals always seek other collaborations in the Riksdag. Even in this decade, Mr President, we in the Liberals will put our strength on the biggest challenges. It is now, among other things, a question of overcoming the finances of municipalities and regions, paying off the debt of integration and facing the insecurity that comes in the wake of serious crime. Our ambition is not to stand by and shout out overwhelms. Our ambition is to be constructive with results for people as a goal. The January Agreement is primarily not a product of creating peace for Social Democrats with eternal ambitions of power. But it is also not a product of creating an ever-increasing increase in the blood pressure of conservative politicians. The agreement is a tool to govern Sweden after the 2018 election where the Speaker tried several different options, the months passed, but the Riksdag said no. Mr President, I would like to It is almost the case that climate deniers were physically smoked out of their denial bubble by the ongoing and unimaginable fire disasters in Australia. Now you even have to cancel the Australian Open because there's too much smoke on the track. Liberals will continue to drive the transition to fossil-free society through technology and innovation, not through debt. This applies in Sweden, in the EU and globally. We want to secure welfare by building on the knowledge reforms that raise the Swedish school's performance. We want to ensure that people have more access to permanent medical contact and good care on time. We want to ensure that LSS works so that more people get a little more freedom in their everyday lives. We want to restore the Swedish judiciary so that more people will feel secure and get right when someone has done wrong. As always, the way forward is through hard-working people in small, medium-sized and large companies that act every day in Sweden and create jobs and build the wealth that we in here can ultimately try to share to the best of our ability. Mr President, I would like to For Sweden, the still unwritten 20th century deserves liberal reforms and liberal successes.
i-7546575806ed9b03-80	Mr President, I would like to The world is on fire, literally. Australia and the Amazon are being destroyed by fire. Far over 1 billion animals have been killed in the fires. In Sweden the temperature was 3 - 6 degrees warmer than normal now in December. At the same time, discontent and hatred between people all over the world are smouldering. Authoritarian regimes do not hesitate to burn under hatred to fortify their power. Curved men with their finger on the trigger button hold all humanity in their power. The democratic governance and respect for human rights that we have long believed was the only and obvious way forward is now under severe attack. We see it in the UN. We hear this in the rhetoric of leaders and countries that have chosen Sweden as their target. What Sweden stands for is equality, openness, democracy and a determination to leave the dependence on fossil fuels. This dependence is something that is currently funding some of the least democratic and most authoritarian countries in the world. That makes us a threat to those forces that want to in the opposite direction. That's why the troll factories are spinning against us. That is why large countries are disdaining to point out precisely us as a deterrent. Mr President, I would like to The world is at a breaking point. Now it's time to keep your head cool but your heart is warm. The future doesn't create itself. We are creating our own future here and now. A year ago, the January agreement between the government, the Center Party and the Liberals was concluded. It is a unique cooperation programme that bridges ideological differences between parties in the middle of politics. It contains a wide range of important and good reforms. These include increased pensions, more time for parents to be with their children, more money for police and defence, and, not least, resources for reducing care queues and combating mental illness. It concerns efforts to reduce segregation and improve schooling and a world-unique broad climate policy in which we integrate climate into all policies. The January agreement was a sign of strength for Swedish democracy. A clear majority was not prepared to cooperate with political parties rooted in neo-Nazi and white-power movements. A majority, on the other hand, is prepared to assume its democratic responsibility at a time of crisis and fire and stand up for the equal value of all people. It is about feminism, climate justice, solidarity and transparency and building a firewall against the forces that want to destroy these values. Mr President, I would like to Building a safer and better world requires trust, confidence in the future and leadership based on long-termism. It is therefore with great sadness that I note that the reactions of the Moderates and Christian Democrats to the January Agreement have been to undermine what has been the strength of Swedish society for so long, namely the ability to reach cross-block agreements. You drop out of the energy deal. The promises made to the voters about the high-speed train are being betrayed. You don't want to show a united front against gang crime. Instead, they have coffee and lunch with Jimmie Åkesson, who they promised their voters that they would never give influence to. It deliberately spreads the image of a Sweden that is collapsing. It is a picture that is welcomed by the forces that want to harm us. I never thought I'd say this, but today I can miss Fredrik Reinfeldt. At least he was guided by a vision, even if I didn't share it. When the world is on fire, politics must be guided by vision and belief in the future and not be an exercise in finding random conflict topics in order to gain power. This is not good for Sweden. It is not good for the Swedish people's confidence in their elected representatives. It is not good for democracy, and that is not the way to put out fires.
i-7546575806ed9b03-93	Mr President, I would like to It is good that there are now many parties that are beginning to agree with us Social Democrats on the need for investment in welfare. At the same time, many people have great doubts about whether we politicians even manage to solve social problems for Sweden. That is why I would now like to address you directly to those who feel distrust for the future. I turn to those of you who are disappointed in the development of society and to anyone who hesitates in the face of social democracy or who, moreover, has lost faith in the possibilities of politics. On the contrary, what is sometimes dismissed as discontent, I see as highly legitimate and reasonable expectations of what Sweden should be and what Sweden can become, and I share your anger. It is the anger that you who work in welfare get to feel what it means for the workload and body when each efficiency requirement is followed by new ones, while tax money runs away in market solutions or expensive consulting notes. It is the anger of those of you who live in suburban high-rise areas who see gang crime and drug trafficking in the staircase. It is the anger of those of you who live in Swedish countryside and see the potholes become more and that more signs are taken down when the community has retired. I hear your anger, and I share it. We share the same hopes of what Sweden can become. Therefore, the coming years and the coming decade will be yours through the construction of a strong society. We're going to increase the resources for welfare. We're going to have a pension system that provides safe pensions. We're going to get through the climate change. We will fight both crime and its causes. We are to maintain a long-term sustainable migration policy. This decade will be about your everyday life, your care and the future of our daughters and sons. Sweden should be able to cope with more than solving societal problems. We will build a strong society and a strong Sweden for everyone.
i-7546575806ed9b03-100	Mr President, I would like to The decommissioning of Swedish nuclear power continues in this now, first with Ringhals 2 and then with Ringhals 1. Emissions are expected to increase by 8 million tonnes. There are about 8 million reasons for rethinking the policy pursued. This is not just a bad climate policy; it is also a bad energy policy. Swedish industry needs electricity around the clock, all year round, and not only an unusually warm winter. If we are going to meet the climate targets, the calculations say that we need 60 percent more electricity in Sweden by 2045. Stefan Löfven also thought so when he represented those who work in Swedish industry and were new party leaders. He was open to new investments and life extensions. My question to Stefan Löfven is: exactly when did Stefan Löfven change his position, and why?
i-7546575806ed9b03-104	Mr President, I would like to We concluded a long-term energy agreement. It was an important objective that industry and industry should have long-term rules of play. For me, long-termism is more than three and a half years. It was the long-term perspective of the Moderates. By the time we made the deal, Vattenfall had already decided to shut down reactors. They did it on some balanced basis. One is security. Security requirements have been raised after Fukushima, and substantial investment is needed to achieve this. The second is that this is not a business matter. That is how we have managed to resolve energy policy, both through the long-term rules of the game and by relying on the fact that here too – as we agreed – the market must manage and take care of the rules of the game. But after three and a half years, the Moderates chose to change their minds. For me, that's not long-term. Now it's resourceful again. We now have the greatest surplus of energy we have ever had.
i-7546575806ed9b03-108	Mr President, I would like to When did it become long-term to close down competitively necessary nuclear power because an individual company makes the assessment that they do not think it brings commercial benefit? This fascinating and somewhat unusual belief in market mechanisms undeniably impresses. I do not understand why you accept this historical mistake in a situation where electrification of Swedish transport and industry will require more electricity. If it's supposed to be clean, we can't rely on it to always blow. It is quite clear that no single country in the world is outsourcing its overall energy supply to an individual company – a state-owned company which is then denied control. This afternoon, Prime Minister, you too have the chance to make a new and wiser decision.
i-7546575806ed9b03-112	Mr President, I would like to Nuclear power has played, still plays and will play an important role in the Swedish energy mix. Nuclear power won't go away. However, Vattenfall has assessed in its company that these two reactors cannot continue to operate – for market and safety reasons. We must take this seriously. This decision, Ulf Kristersson, was made one year before we reached the agreement. Our agreement was an improvement on the possibilities of nuclear power because we removed some costs. We agreed on that at the time. Now come the Moderates, five years after Hydropower has decided on this, and say: No, the decision you made was wrong. You should have told me earlier. Long-term demand for something completely different, Ulf Kristersson, and it is long-term rules for energy that are needed for the Swedish business community.
i-7546575806ed9b03-115	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to Stefan Löfven in the speaker's chair, it is a bit like when someone said: Now we turn the page. We have entered a new decade, and unfortunately it is not enough to turn the page. You also have to move from fine words and fine speeches to action. I said, Mr President, in my speech that the government is completely out of touch with the crisis. I would say that this is perhaps the main feature of this government. You pretend to understand problems and pretend that you intend to do something about them but then continue in the same vein as before. Last year, 2019, 120 000 residence permits were granted to people in our country. My question, Mr President, to Stefan Löfven is: when will this end?
i-7546575806ed9b03-118	Mr President, I would like to It is the government that I lead that has changed migration policy. We had a policy of migration that was not sustainable. We have changed it, and we have significantly reduced the number of asylum seekers coming to Sweden. We have to hold on to that. When Jimmie Åkesson now mentions a figure of over 100,000, he also includes his own entrepreneurs, visiting researchers, engineers, civil engineers and IT designers. These are the people we need in this country. Jimmie Åkesson's message now to Swedish companies and Swedish authorities is that these people should not be allowed into Sweden. I find it very unfortunate. When do you think, Jimmie Åkesson, that this should stop? When will we no longer get engineers and other people that we need at our companies? When will it end, Jimmie Åkesson?
i-7546575806ed9b03-121	Mr President, I would like to This is what has been the problem in the migration debate for decades: it is not understood that the vast majority of people who come to our country are not engineers. They're not designers. They don't have excellence. On the contrary, the vast majority of people find themselves in an extremely difficult situation where very many people end up in exclusion and dependency on subsidies. They are being recruited to the gangs that Stefan Löfven says he wants to fight. In every way possible, Swedish society divides. That is what has happened, and it is precisely the argument that we now hear from Stefan Löfven that has meant that we have not been able to overcome this despite all the warning signs for decades. Despite all the obvious problems created by the large, irresponsible immigration policy, Stefan Löfven continues to talk about those who actually contribute to our society. Yes, many do. I have no ambition whatsoever to prevent anyone from coming here to contribute to our society, but mass immigration must stop.
i-7546575806ed9b03-125	Mr President, I would like to Now the confusion of the Swedish democrats is becoming very clear. In one line, the first, Jimmie Åkesson asks me when this with 120 000 residence permits will end. It has to stop, he says. In the next line, for some strange reason, it should not stop. I was asked by Jimmie Åkesson, and I answered it. Then Jimmie Åkesson says: No, that's not what I meant. The majority of immigration is labour migration. We have made sure to reduce the number of asylum seekers coming to Sweden. That was absolutely necessary, because the whole of Europe and the whole of Europe must take responsibility for this development. Not only can Sweden do that. We must keep immigration at a responsible level. But we must also ensure that the people that Swedish companies, authorities and others need here in our country for our development will be able to come here. The Swedish Democrats should not put an end to this.
i-7546575806ed9b03-127	Mr President, I would like to Three months ago I stood in this speaker's chair during the Prime Minister's Question Time and asked him a question. It was about one of the really big problems we have in Swedish healthcare and welfare, namely substance abuse care. In this area, the number of deaths increased sharply over the past ten-year period. Sweden is one of the countries in Europe that has the highest mortality rates among drug addicts, although we do not have very many who use drugs. This has political reasons. This is because we have organised care in a strange way, where we divide it between those who have addiction and those who do not. We also have a coercive care that is a patchwork. Here the Social Affairs Committee took the initiative of the Center Party and called on the government to do something about this. We need to change this so that even one of the most vulnerable groups in society is given care worthy of the name. Policy action is needed here. When I last asked the question, the Prime Minister did not know when this would begin. I repeat the question now: when will the government start work to give this group of people care worthy of the name?
i-7546575806ed9b03-132	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, all people, all citizens, in our country must have care as needed. That's the deal. Anything else cannot be accepted. That is why it is so important that we now inject resources into health care and employ more people in health care. We have 13,000 more employees in Swedish healthcare compared to when we took office in autumn 2018. That's why we've brought more resources. As regards the question of organisation itself, how it will now change, it must be discussed between the parties that have demanded this and the government. I'm afraid I can't answer exactly where in the Ministry of Social Affairs the question is right now. But it is clear that it, as well as the question of the future of the whole of Swedish health care, is important. Everyone should have care, not least addicts. We have already committed ourselves, during the last parliamentary term, to changing drug treatment. We must do more for these people. They have exactly the same right as everyone else.
i-7546575806ed9b03-136	Mr President, I would like to If you call yourself a welfare party, you must also look at one of the most vulnerable groups. Much else in health care is about providing financial resources, but that is not the problem here. Here the problem is that we have organised the care of this group of people in a completely absurd way. Those who have an addiction, an addiction disease, and who also often have a mental or somatic – i.e. physical – disease should receive care from the municipality but at the same time from the health care principal. Furthermore, we do not have the law of coercion in place. So it is not primarily money that is needed, but structural measures are needed here. Here we need amended legislation, and in a situation where the Center Party has ensured that we in Parliament have a united social committee and a decision that we need to remedy this, action by the government is also required. Hundreds of young people die for nothing. This calls for initiatives, and the government must be prepared to step forward.
i-7546575806ed9b03-139	Mr President, I would like to I fully share that view. We do not disagree on this. This is also a problem area which goes beyond this. We have the same kind of problems with regard to, for example, care for the elderly, where both health care and the municipalities and the regions are obliged to do something for the elderly. Here we obviously have a system failure that we have to deal with. As I said, we committed ourselves and strengthened drug treatment already in the last parliamentary term. We need to do more, and we want to do it in talks with all parties involved in this so that all people in our country, no matter who they are, have the right to the best possible care.
i-7546575806ed9b03-142	Mr President, Prime Minister Löfven. The welfare crisis is taking hold in Sweden. In Eskilstuna, the Social Democrats cut down on social services and sell out the municipal property portfolio in part. In Hudiksvall, the equivalent of 120 posts will be removed in school and care for the elderly, a significant reduction made by the Social Democrats. In Lidköping it is native language education, pupil health and music school that the Social Democrats cut down on in the municipality. In Ludvika it is elderly care and retirement homes that receive significant cuts. This is what it looks like. It depends on government policy. That depends on the government's budget. If you are serious about the welfare coming first, the government must now clarify what additional resources come to the welfare. It's not enough to talk about welfare. It is time for the government to make it clear that municipalities and regions will have sufficient resources to manage their activities.
i-7546575806ed9b03-146	Mr President, I would like to That message has been given for a long time, and it will be so. Already the previous term of office was added 35 billion to Swedish welfare, and 100 000 more are now working in Swedish welfare. In the summer of ‐ 17 we clearly said that more is needed here, so in the run-up to the next elections – i.e. the 2018 elections – we will promise another 20 billion. That's what we're delivering. Last summer, the Minister for Finance said that in the future we have a financing gap of 90 billion in Swedish welfare. We have to bring more. In December at the Swedish Municipalities and Regions Congress I said clearly: We leave no municipality in the lurch. No one. More money will be needed. Now the Moderates come and say that we need 3 billion more, and we should take an initiative on that here in Parliament. I say, that's not enough. You're too cheap. And they will sit down and reason with the Left Party, those who also want to remove investment aid and extra services. How do you make ends meet, Jonas Sjöstedt?
i-7546575806ed9b03-148	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate the Prime Minister talking about the last term of office. Then the budget was made with the Left Party. Then welfare went first. Now it is tax cuts for those who earn the most that go first. That's why it looks like it does out in our municipalities. Then fine words and general pledges are not enough. Then we need crowns, then billions are needed, to municipalities and regions. I share the Prime Minister's view that SEK 3 billion is not enough. It's too little. It is in practice a recipe for cuts. But the fact is that the Prime Minister has so far promised zero crowns. Up to proof, Stefan Löfven! You sit in the municipalities now and quit people and close down businesses. This is where the message has to come. Can I think of the Prime Minister as promising a far greater contribution to municipalities and regions than the SEK 3 billion he just condemned as insufficient from the Moderates?
i-7546575806ed9b03-152	Mr President, I would like to This is exactly how it must not happen – that you think you can just put one finger in the air and say that this is how much it is, and then we take something else. When the Moderates say three, the Left Party says ten. In the same line, in the same answer, Sjöstedt says that if the government does not say anything, I can sit down and reason with those who demanded a third. In addition, I am prepared to discuss investment aid for housing. We don't want it, but there'll be a discussion about it. In addition, they are prepared to remove additional services. That was the message – extra services are okay to remove. If you remove extra services, Sjöstedt, you have directly sent an expensive bill to the municipalities. The extra services are good for us to get the immigrant women to work so that they can also contribute. You don't do this if you believe in Swedish welfare. There is a need for clear information about welfare and about the money for municipalities and regions, and this should be a long-term message. Then you do not stand in a speaker's chair and try to negotiate, and then you cannot just draw a number and then say that you are content with a third. It won't hold, Sjöstedt.
i-7546575806ed9b03-156	Mr President, I would like to Just before the New Year, reactor 2 was shut down at Ringhal's nuclear power plant. The Christian Democrats have been trying for a long time to clarify why state-owned Vattenfall chooses to phase out efficient, safe and carbon-free electricity production in advance, while the demand for electricity and the profitability of electricity generation are increasing sharply. That doesn't make any sense. Can the Prime Minister guarantee before this House that the governments he has been responsible for since 2014 have never put pressure on the early closure of Ringhals 1 and 2 – not through officials, not through back roads, not through his party or coalition party and not through envoys?
i-7546575806ed9b03-158	Mr President, I would like to It sounded like we were in a criminal court here. No, that's exactly the point, Ebba Busch Thor – that Vattenfall makes its own decisions. This decision was made a year before we made the agreement, so we all knew it. On the other hand, we improved the conditions for nuclear power. We made it cheaper for nuclear power. To come a few years after that and say that now we have to change that decision... it's not true that this is absolutely certain. It wants a huge investment for these reactors to go. That's the decision Vattenfall has made. Then it must be a substantial subsidy, or these two reactors should be saved with significantly higher energy prices for customers. I don't think that's a good idea. I think we can agree that long-term rules apply and companies make their own decisions. When did KD cease to believe in the market economy?
i-7546575806ed9b03-162	Mr President, I would like to As a Christian Democrat, they are in favour of a social market economy, and Vattenfall is a state-owned company, not a private company. Let's talk about the money. Unfortunately, there is no official account of the winnings for Ringhals 1 and 2. But the back way can be calculated that the owners should have earned over SEK 3 billion in the last two years alone. Then neither the climate benefit nor the value of the security of supply in the electricity grid created by Ringhals has been included, which is the point of having a state-owned company at all. This is what Dr Staffan Qvist wrote recently in Today's industry.If Vattenfall does not actually see economic conditions for further operation of Ringhals 1 and 2, it is because, for some reason, a fundamentally different view of the electricity market has been created than all the other players in the market do in their calculations. ..................................................... I didn't hear an answer to my question. Has the Prime Minister, a minister or an official affected Vattenfall to close fully functioning nuclear power prematurely? That question requires answers. Can we have assurances of that today?
i-7546575806ed9b03-166	Mr President, I would like to Excuse me, but I think with all due respect this is getting a little ridiculous. We have no government or government government of our state companies. It is precisely for that reason that I am saying that we should respect Vattenfall's decision. I think they can do this. With all due respect to Christian Democrats and others, it is in Vattenfall's boardroom that decisions should be made. Are we going to invest, and how much is it going to cost? Are the Christian Democrats prepared to go in with a large subsidy? If you are also prepared to discuss this with the EU, which will say: If Vattenfall is to have a subsidy, then all other companies should have it too. That's how it's gonna be. So respect the decision that has been made! We now have a larger surplus in Swedish energy production than we have ever had. We're exporting over 25 terawatt hours this year. What is our concern, however, and to be targeted is the transmission of networks. That's where we need to make an investment. We will do that so that we ensure that every part of the country has enough energy just when it is needed.
i-7546575806ed9b03-169	Mr President, I would like to Liberals also want to stick to the issue of Swedish energy production. Modern society demands that we increase electricity production in our country. Then it is a bit odd that we are closing down working Swedish nuclear power, especially as we have a very strong North European energy market, where we give to and take from each other. Now we are shutting down Swedish regulatory power in the form of good hydro and nuclear power, which is fossil-free. After all, we have been talking a little about the climate in this House recently, and the Liberals think it is quite important that we focus on climate-smart energy production. My question is: can the government envisage an independent review of the conditions that have been imposed? When Vattenfall takes a decision on the basis of an old regulatory system, which is behind the market looking like it now, and now has new conditions, we in the Swedish Parliament still have a responsibility for the energy market, education, the labour market and the housing market.
i-7546575806ed9b03-172	Mr President, I would like to Energy policy aims to ensure that households and businesses have secure access to energy at competitive prices. That is why we concluded this agreement. On behalf of Vattenfall, the market has changed in that the conditions for nuclear power have improved. It has become easier to operate nuclear power plants. But you keep your decision for some reason. It is not safe enough as it is, and the investments required are too expensive, says Vattenfall; it does not pay off. Again – we will focus on what we have a serious problem with, namely the transmission of networks. We have a huge surplus almost every month. I think that some year we had to import electricity for a month or if it was a week, and it actually happened to be in the summer. It wasn't in the winter we had problems. So we have surpluses throughout the year, but we must ensure that electricity is transported through the country more efficiently. There are some bottlenecks that we absolutely must tackle.
i-7546575806ed9b03-175	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the Liberals share the view that we need to expand so that we have both a stronger effect and a better opportunity to transport electricity throughout Sweden, so that the industry can develop. However, the forced closure of functioning Swedish nuclear power means that we will become more dependent on Danish, German and Polish coal power as regulation during the times when we have problems. Sometimes it won't blow. We will not have these enormous amounts of rain as we are now. It is raining all the time; it is not even winter in this country. The water storage is full, and we have a control force that we can basically turn off and turn on with a small light button. But we need to look at it from a global perspective. This is driving the development of coal power in Denmark, Germany and Poland, and it is damaging to our common climate.
i-7546575806ed9b03-178	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we have surpluses all year round. One month in a year we had to import. We know that this can be fixed – it depends only on how we export and import. So we do not sit with big problems in the winter. The month when we were allowed to import was, as I said, during the summer. It is wrong to say that we have such problems that we are now becoming dependent on Danish or German coal power. We won't. Our surplus is increasing every year. We have never exported as much electricity as we export this year. That's good. But we have concerns about the transfer within the country. That's why I want to concentrate on it. All parts of the country should have power at competitive prices all parts of the year, and it should be safe.
i-7546575806ed9b03-180	Let me say that I am very pleased that so many people have come here today to listen to the party leader debate. You are all warmly welcome to the Swedish Parliament. I would also like to welcome the representatives of the diplomatic corps who are here in particular.
i-7546575806ed9b03-181	Mr President, I would like to Prior to the 2014 elections, Stefan Löfven promised to invest in the business community. An industrial chancellor and several innovation catalysts would make a business plan for Sweden and give us Europe's lowest unemployment by 2020, if you remember. It has been a while since we heard the Social Democrats publish the text on this particular project. Instead of the EU's lowest unemployment rate, we had the lowest growth in the EU. The proportion of long-term unemployed is higher now than when Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister five years ago, and the overall unemployment rate is growing. Locally and municipally the economic warning bells ring. It is about demography and integration problems, of course, but just as much about dependency on subsidies that persists. When fewer people work, it becomes more difficult to finance the common. More than one in three municipalities expects a deficit at the end of a boom. But instead of looking up, looking out over Sweden and the world and asking what one should now take hold of first, the government looks down into an internal agreement and browses among 73 points. Then the Social Democrats and support parties choose free years, construction subsidies, condemned entry deductions and increased aid over municipalities and welfare, the police and the judiciary. The situation is serious. More money is needed, and that requires better priorities. That is why tomorrow the Moderates will present an extra budget. We say no to what can be saved and yes to things that can no longer wait. This is what Sweden needs. And as Stefan Löfven now knows, it is in our democracy Parliament that decides, not the government.
i-7546575806ed9b03-186	Mr President, I would like to One group that has a legitimate expectation of politics is our pensioners. Those who have worked and worked hard to make the lives of future generations possible deserve respect and financial security. We Social Democrats went to elections on higher and fair pensions. We start delivering thanks to the January agreement. This year, for example, we are raising the basic level of the guarantee pension, and we are also raising the ceiling for the housing supplement and lowering the tax for 1 million pensioners. But we are not satisfied; we have things to do. We need to raise pensions for those who have worked their entire working life with low wages. In addition, we need to ensure that we get more money into the pension system so that we can say that we reach the target of at least 70% of the final salary being paid in retirement. It is good that we have long-term work in the Pensions Group. However, I believe that the most important thing to ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system is that people get what they have the right to expect, namely higher, fair pensions. Are the Moderates willing to contribute to this?
i-7546575806ed9b03-190	Mr President, I would like to I find it interesting to note that the Prime Minister is now keen on higher pensions for all when all they did was improve pensions for those with the highest pension. We reduced the tax on all pensioners in our proposals. Everyone would get more money left in their wallet after tax, not just those with the high pensions. We are more than willing to go further with reducing the tax on all Swedish pensioners, who will have more left in their wallet after tax, because they are worth it.
i-7546575806ed9b03-192	Mr President, I would like to Consumer information: we started last term of office by reducing taxes on those with the lowest pensions. That's what we started with. Now Kristersson says that some tax cuts will give pensioners a better economy. It's kind of funny to hear this. After all, you were the ones who introduced the pensioner's tax with your job tax deductions. This is why pensioners pay higher taxes than employees on the same income in relative terms. The pensioner's tax should go away, and I think it should never come back. I wish it had been completely removed, but now it didn't. The journey will be longer as a result of your napkin sketch, where you drew a job tax deduction to. But the question to Kristersson was: Are you prepared to contribute to higher pensions – not just lower taxes – to wage earners who have worn a whole working life, had too low wages and thus receive too low a pension? Can we agree that we want to improve for that group? What do the Moderates say?
i-7546575806ed9b03-196	Mr President, I would like to We are totally in favour of improving the situation for pensioners in the country. The difference is that we're doing it for real. We put forward sharp proposals to increase purchasing power with more money in the wallet after tax for the country's pensioners. If you want to do something about this and do it quickly, reduced taxes on the country's pensioners are the absolute best way to increase their purchasing power. All other things take a very long time– otherwise you would have done it a long time ago, Stefan Löfven.
i-7546575806ed9b03-197	Mr President, I would like to As we all know, 2019 was an extremely intense year in Swedish politics, where we started by getting a January agreement in place, which gave Sweden a much-needed liberal reform agenda. But it was also a year that meant another change in Swedish politics – a completely different playing field, where Ulf Kristersson and the Moderates opened up for what they had so clearly rejected earlier, namely closer cooperation with Jimmie Åkesson and the Swedish Democrats. The meeting between the party leaders of the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats and the announcement of a cooperation forward sparked a great many thoughts. My honest and frank question to Ulf Kristersson is therefore: What do the Moderates want with the collaboration with the Swedish Democrats? Is the first step in building a new conservative bloc in Swedish politics?
i-7546575806ed9b03-199	Mr President, I would like to The deputy party leader of the party who promised before the elections to absolutely never create a Social Democratic government and then created a Social Democratic government wonders if anything has happened in Swedish politics. Jajamensan, something has happened in Swedish politics!
i-7546575806ed9b03-200	Seriously, each party makes its own decisions. I'm not going to moralize your decisions. I think you did the wrong thing. We could have had a bourgeois government that conducted stable, reliable, bourgeois politics, a policy that one believes in and does not reluctantly delay. What has happened since then is that I am prepared to talk to all democratically elected parties and politicians in this House if we can implement concrete substantive policies that would be good for Sweden. It separates your party from my party, Anders W Jonsson.
i-7546575806ed9b03-202	Mr President, I would like to This is, of course, a big difference with last autumn, when the Center Party did everything to find a broad solution when the voters did not give us a mandate for an alliance government because other parties lost too much. At that point we wanted to find a broad agreement where the Alliance could stick together and we could also find an agreement across the block border. This was blocked, not least by Ulf Kristersson's party. For the Center Party, values are extremely important. We also believe that liberalism is the way forward. To quote Carl Bildt : There's hope. In this situation, politicians have a choice. You can start cooperation with a party that calls itself anti-liberal, or you can seek broad consensus in the middle of the political field. My question remains. What exactly is the Moderates' ambition? Is it about creating a new conservative bloc in Swedish politics?
i-7546575806ed9b03-205	Mr President, I would like to No, when to e xempel The Moderates, Left Party, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats discuss whether we here and now can improve for the country's municipalities, it is about this, if we here and now can improve for the country's municipalities – no more and no less. Bacteria policy is an undervalued dimension of Swedish politics. Back to history. So it was you who did not want to see an alliance government. You didn't even want to try an alliance government. I was in the negotiations. It wasn't you, Anders W Jonsson. What happened was that you demanded that the Alliance hold together and form a social democratic government. The Moderates didn't want that.
i-7546575806ed9b03-208	Mr President and Ulf Kristersson! Racism is one of Sweden's major social problems. Racist organizations and parties tend to point out people with Muslim faith as scapegoats and targets for their attacks. I am concerned that the Moderates are progressing in the same direction. It is particularly clear in municipalities where they run together with the Swedish Democrats. Bromölla proposes a prayer ban on working hours. It is clearly directed at Muslims without saying it. In Sölvesborg it is about not buying books in pupils' mother tongue. In Staffanstorp it is about not serving food that is slaughtered in such a way that Muslims can eat it. In Staffanstorp and Skurup it is a matter of not wearing a veil at school. It is probably illegal to enforce such a thing. This is a kind of signal policy that sends the message that it is actually the Muslims that are the problem. The question to you, Ulf Kristersson, is: Is this moderate politics?
i-7546575806ed9b03-211	Mr President, I would like to No, it is certainly not moderate politics. I agree that both racism and anti-Semitism are growing problems in Sweden. There are too many people and organisations who unwittingly, not least on social media, spread hatred and threats. The Security Service has a pretty good track record of the people who do this in a criminal sense. But more people may do so without it being criminal. It's deeply unpleasant. I think that this is something that we have a common responsibility to combat. At the same time, there are other problems in Sweden that I think other parties are ducking before. The problem of honour is one such problem. It is a question of people taking the right, in the name of honour, to oppress children, young people and women in a country where individualism is high. Both of these things deserve our constant attention. I am pleased that you are paying attention to one thing, Jonas Sjöstedt, but I think you should also pay attention to the other.
i-7546575806ed9b03-215	Mr President, I would like to Honorful violence must always be fought. Violence and oppression in the name of honour are never acceptable. Anti-Semitism and Islamophobia must be combated. I am pleased with your answer, Ulf Kristersson, and that you were so clear about it. But I call for the moderate leader's voice against his own municipal politicians when they play in the pitiful racist game that the Swedish Democrats are playing and where decisions are taken in municipalities on these kinds of measures that really have only one purpose, namely to stigmatise and point out Swedes who have Muslim faith. We're supposed to protect freedom of religion. We're supposed to protect equality before the law. We must protect people's rights and thus reject racism.
i-7546575806ed9b03-218	Mr President, I would like to We are basically in agreement. Municipalities must adhere to the Constitution. Municipalities should do things that municipalities have to do, not other things. And municipalities-- I've been mayor myself-- I've had enough of that. Then I will honestly say: I think the issue of veil and headcloth on very young children in Sweden is a difficult question. Freedom of religion is indispensable in every possible way. So is children's right to self-determination and that girls and boys have the same rights. That's why we landed in the conclusion. Let us look seriously at how we are going to deal with this issue! Here there may be genuine conflicts of interest that are difficult to manage. But basically the answer is: We should never tolerate racism and anti-Semitism in our country.
i-7546575806ed9b03-220	Mr President, I would like to I think it is quite good to talk a little about the school and education as a liberal in a party leader debate. Before Christmas, Mr President, the result of a major international survey, the measurement that is being discussed in this area, came. It is about the development and future of a country, that is, the children's performance in school. For the second time in a row the results had improved, not least thanks to the cooperation that we had during the years it was an alliance government, Ulf Kristersson. Then we laid the foundation for the modern knowledge school with increased teacher authority, focus on early evaluation and so on. But I have a question for Ulf Kristersson. Now we continue within the framework of the January agreement with previous grades. We're investigating state school. We have a lot of efforts to strengthen the knowledge school. That is where it begins with opportunities for change and future prosperity. The Moderates commented on the development: This was frightening. It was a tragedy that will end in horror, and the results were politically guided. What do the Moderates mean by not accepting PISA's results?
i-7546575806ed9b03-223	Mr President, I would like to I think this is a misunderstanding. I commented on the PISA study and said there was a very good signal. I think I specifically pointed out our joint efforts. I am almost 100% sure that I specifically mentioned Jan Björklund's name in this context – for very good reasons. And so I pointed out that equivalence is decreasing in Swedish schools. We have major differences, which are not acceptable, between different schools. It was even that many could not do the test because they did not know Swedish well enough. Actually, it's a concern. This thing about keeping two thoughts in your head at the same time, I think it's a good idea.
i-7546575806ed9b03-225	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, I'm struggling with that particular challenge. Yes, but how good that equivalence was mentioned. I am thinking of the disastrous municipalisation of the Swedish school. I remember when, as student council president, I demonstrated. Thousands of students in Örebro opposed this. Maybe it was just so we could get some time off, I don't know. But we were against this. We saw that there was a problem, and the teachers cheered for us. We want to ensure that we get a state school, a state responsibility for the school, in order to increase equivalence. Since the municipal mergers, the population has decreased in the majority of municipalities. In many places it is almost only the cemetery that grows, so to speak. At this point, I wonder whether the Moderates would be willing to support the work of the Liberals. That's the most important thing to ensure that children get the same chance in Laxå as in Landskrona.
i-7546575806ed9b03-228	Mr President, I would like to I do not believe that the municipalisation of Swedish schools is the largest and foremost reform that we have implemented in modern times for Swedish schools. Against this I will say: I do not believe that our big task right now is to make another gigantic organisational change in which we are going to nationalise the Swedish school. Some local councillors may rightly point out that they see one or another government authority and activities that do not function flawlessly. That is why I do not think that is where the answer lies. On the other hand, I believe that the state must take a much greater responsibility for equivalence, quality control and quality monitoring. It is also about never accepting free schools or public schools that do not provide the knowledge and education that children have the right to demand. There the state must be uncompromising.
i-7546575806ed9b03-229	Mr President, I would like to Cross-block agreements have been good for Sweden. It has given stability over the terms of office. It has provided security in matters of pensions, defence and energy supply. Of course, not all parties get exactly what they want in the negotiations. It's about putting the best of the country in front of the best of the party. Unfortunately, the Moderates have begun to fail in these matters. You leave the energy agreement. You turn the high-speed train. Important cross-block talks are turned down. That is deeply regrettable. Ulf Kristersson! Municipalities, regions and companies throughout southern Sweden have taken care of billions of investments in main roads, improved public transport and 285 000 new homes in the Swedish negotiations initiated by the Alliance Government on high-speed trains. Why is that promise to all municipalities and companies not more important to you than your sudden desire to be against anything the government is for?
i-7546575806ed9b03-232	Mr President, I would like to No, it's not a sudden urge to be against what the government is for. On the contrary, it is a very clear desire to focus on the major problems and to solve those problems. It is not a question of sticking to an agreement in form with others who do not solve the problems. That's the common denominator. The broad agreements are good if they solve problems. Otherwise, they're an illusion. It would have been foolish to hold on to high-speed trains when the major investment needs are in a completely different form of infrastructure. It would have been foolish to hold on to gang conversations and agree not to do the things that are now required. And it would have been foolish to stick to an energy agreement that guarantees that we do not have electricity in the places where it is most needed. I therefore believe more in substance policy – in solving the problems – than in the political will to have an agreement in form that the government can settle for.
i-7546575806ed9b03-235	Mr President, I would like to A handshake is a handshake, whether it is here in Parliament or at Hédi Fried's kitchen table. Here's the thing: Sweden's population has grown. More and more people want to ride trains. We need new main courses. The question is not whether we have to build new main roads, but whether we should build them with old, outdated and slow technology or with fast technology that equips us for the future, so that we can build up Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö and travel between the cities in two three hours. You knew this when you were a minister of the Alliance government. You stood up for it then. But apparently none of this is true now. I have a sincere question, given how moderate politics turns. Let's say the Moderates in a future are once again in a government. Now you're talking about extra options. Perhaps you should have the support of the Swedish Democrats. But will you then again see the value of cross-block agreements on infrastructure investments that are historically important to Sweden?
i-7546575806ed9b03-239	Mr President, I would like to The answer is clear: Yes, if they solve the problems facing Sweden. It's quite obvious. Political agreements are not a social game. It is not a way of guaranteeing the power of some parties who feel like ruling even though they feel differently. Political agreements aim to solve real, physical and fixed problems. I believe in two things in politics. I believe in clear, stable and firm values of what is right and wrong, and I believe in political pragmatism. See the problems! Understand the problems! Solve the problems pragmatically, so that those who think more or less alike can take care of each other and unite to solve a concrete problem! It's for me real politics. But it does not aim for the January parties to have power in Sweden. I'm sorry. That's not my goal.
i-7546575806ed9b03-241	Mr President, I would like to The government lacks a sense of crisis. The government also lacks self-criticism. The problems and the breakdown that we are seeing today in the area by area of a country that is divisive at an ever-increasing rate, with municipalities on their knees and violence spreading and creeping ever closer to the everyday lives of more and more people in our country, are not problems that have arisen in a vacuum or out of thin air. Nor have these problems grown up as mushrooms from the ground a little here and there, but they are problems that have been created by political decisions and political priorities. It is political decisions and political priorities that are very much falling back on Stefan Löfven and the Social Democrats for decades. Not least irresponsible migration policy and unconditional integration policy, I would say, are the main reasons why Sweden looks as it does today. When you listen to the debate you can get the impression that the government has now understood this. We are tightening up and redeploying migration policy, they say. Yet it continues with 120 000 residence permits in 2019. Sure, some of them are people who add a lot to our country. This has been the case for decades. There will be some who add a lot and that we need. But there are also a lot of people who do not have the opportunity to add something that we need, and that is the problem. Think, Mr President, if we could have had a migration policy in which those who will have the opportunity to contribute to our country! That would have been amazing.
i-7546575806ed9b03-246	Mr President, I would like to I am very proud of what Social Democracy has achieved through decades to create one of the world's absolutely best welfare countries. Many look at Sweden as an example. For example, last term we added 35 billion to welfare – welfare money to which the Swedish Democrats said no. They weren't necessary. Last parliamentary term, we wanted to remove the whole surplus target, because we realised that we need more money for welfare. We negotiated so that there was a third left. The Swedish Democrats wanted to retain the entire surplus target, which means less resources for welfare. The Swedish Democrats want a custody allowance that ensures that not least immigrant women remain at home and do not enter the labour market, do not get jobs and cannot contribute to the economy. The Swedish Democrats are cutting back on language training and on labour market initiatives that will also bring new arrivals into work. This increases the bill for municipalities. The Swedish Democrats have no credibility in terms of welfare.
i-7546575806ed9b03-251	Mr President, I would like to The budget that we decided on not so long ago provides some money for the municipalities. But that was far from enough. The budget we put forward provided the municipalities with considerably more money – as much money as the Swedish Municipalities and Regions have said that the municipalities need to maintain their welfare at the level they have today. It is therefore the Swedish Democrats who put forward a policy that enables municipalities to maintain welfare, while it is the Social Democrats with support parties who put forward a policy that keeps municipalities on their knees, which means that municipalities need to raise taxes, which means that municipalities need to close down operations, which means that municipalities need to dismiss staff. It is the Social Democrats who are doing this in Sweden today in 2020, not the Swedish Democrats.
i-7546575806ed9b03-254	Mr President, I would like to It was the Social Democrats who contributed 35 billion to the Swedish welfare sector – 100 000 more employees. It was the Swedish Democrats against. You've never been a welfare party. Now you say you want to give more money to the municipalities. On the other hand, you're going to have a precipice in health insurance. What does that mean? Well, there will be more people who have to go to the municipality's social office to get money. There's no income for the municipality – it's expenditure. Now you say no to opportunities for the people who have come to our country and are to stay here and who are also subject to duty and right and are going to work. You want to prevent language training and labour market measures from actually getting into work. Where do these people end up? They end up in the local social office, because they need financial assistance. It is a poison cocktail offered by the Swedish Democrats. They say that they want more money for the municipalities, but at the same time they make sure that the municipalities receive significantly higher expenditure. In addition, we will have a divided country with the policy of the Swedish Democrats.
i-7546575806ed9b03-258	Mr President, I would like to We pause for a while and think about what Stefan Löfven just said: We get a divided country with the policy of the Swedish Democrats. Has Stefan Löfven not seen what our country looks like today? Has Stefan Löfven not seen how divided our society has become in recent decades as a result of the very politics that Stefan Löfven stands here bragging about? It is Stefan Löfven and the Social Democrats who have divided Sweden. It is the actual policy that has been pursued that has divided our country and has ensured that the municipalities today lack the resources to maintain the level of prosperity that is not even sufficient. We don't just need to maintain welfare – well-being is to be developed! We are a country with one of the highest tax burdens in the world. We must be able to have a better welfare than what we have today. Stefan Löfven and the Social Democrats, with the help of many other parties in this Assembly, have prioritised mass immigration from all corners of the world over welfare. It is over now, Mr President.
i-7546575806ed9b03-262	Mr President, I would like to The biggest issue in the world today is the climate issue. I would like some information from the Swedish Democrats and Jimmie Åkesson. A few years ago, climate change was put in quotation marks in their own budget. Climate policy spokesperson Martin Kinnunen says that it is not a question of a climate crisis, that the climate is not something that people understand and that we do not know what the effects of carbon dioxide on the climate are. Björn Söder, another heavy representative, recently said that the climate threat is excessive, that there is no scientific agreement on the problem and that we do not know what this is due to. My question to Jimmie Åkesson and the Swedish Democrats is therefore: Do you still think that the Paris Agreement is a jippo? Is it your view that the climate threat is excessive and that there is no consistent opinion among the world's scientists on the impact of carbon dioxide on the climate?
i-7546575806ed9b03-266	Mr President, I would like to Climate change is on-going. It is most likely that human influence contributes to it very much. If there is no doubt, I would say. Surely it is the scientists who are dealing with these issues that are fairly in agreement. The debate, however, is not reasonable. The debate is totally unreasonable. I do not agree and there is no scientific evidence whatsoever that the world will end in ten years' time. But when you read a newspaper today, that's the impression you get. I think that is bad if we are to get an effective global climate policy in place. I think it is bad to stand in Parliament's pulpit or in debates in other contexts and talk about climate policy as if something is about to go down. It's not like that. We can work this out. We are going to fix this with effective solutions, technological development and the like – not by inciting and scaring people.
i-7546575806ed9b03-269	Mr President, I would like to It is still surprising how the party leaders of the Swedish Democrats can have all these different answers on these issues: we have to solve this internationally, but the Paris Agreement is a jippo. Leading representatives of the party say that you do not know why this is. The leader of the party himself stands here and says that the situation is not urgent and that action is not required here and now. Climate problems are one of the major threats to humanity's survival. If it is ten years or longer in the long term is another issue, but action is needed here. Yet the representatives of the Swedish Democrats repeatedly appear in the political debate as nothing more than climate-denialists. It would be nice if Jimmie Åkesson as party leader could say that there are problems to be addressed politically. It is about how the Swedish Democrats speak and what they claim in their writings. This could put an end to double accounting by the Swedish Democrats on the climate issue.
i-7546575806ed9b03-271	Mr President, I would like to There is no double bookkeeping, but it is about Anders W Jonsson looking for things that he could interpret as something he could throw at me in this situation. For example, I have never claimed that the Paris Agreement is a jippo. However, I have claimed that it was bad for us in the Swedish Parliament to decide to join the Paris Agreement without knowing what commitments it meant for us. We did not know that, but it was then decided at European level. As a result, we have to take responsibility for, for example, the emissions of Poland and Bulgaria, which is totally unreasonable. I think that a little sense and balance in the debate and a little intellectual integrity will benefit the climate debate and the climate in the long term. We shall have an interesting vote later today in this House on the survival of Swedish nuclear power. I think the Center Party should take on its responsibilities in this matter.
i-7546575806ed9b03-275	Mr President, I would like to Next week I'm going to Jimmie Åkesson's municipality of residence Sölvesborg. It is a municipality that the Swedish Democrats tend to emphasize as a shop window. I will visit a municipal retirement home that will be closed because of the municipality's decision, despite protests from the residents and from relatives. Instead, Frösunda will take over some of the elderly care in the municipality. Frösunda is known for everything from understaffing to mismedication. People who have attended the information meeting are horrified. The cooked food at the retirement home is over, and instead it becomes industrial food. There will be extremely low staffing, demands for employees to train in their free time and perhaps also not the right to full time for those who will work for Frösunda. Why is it so important for the Swedish Democrats to give tax money to companies like Frösunda, who have already embarrassed themselves in a number of Swedish municipalities?
i-7546575806ed9b03-278	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if it's important for me to give money to either one or the other company. This is about getting the most efficient and good business possible. I do not have, nor Jonas Sjöstedt, full insight into what is behind the decisions in the individual case. Of course it's about getting better. Of course, it is about giving better care to those who need care. That's the purpose. In other contexts, the Left Party believes in the potential of politics. I do, too. And I have full confidence that in the municipality I live and do not seem to let what Jonas Sjöstedt's concerns express here happen. On the contrary, I have full confidence in the political majority behind the decision. I think it'll be great.
i-7546575806ed9b03-280	Mr President, I would like to The whole of Frösunda's business idea is to have as low a staffing as possible, as low costs as possible, to put tax money in your own pocket instead of taking care of the elderly. Can Jimmie Åkesson promise that the window will shine nicely in the future at Frösunda's retirement home? Can he really promise that the food will be cooked at the retirement home, as before, and that industrial food will not be taken in? Can Jimmie Åkesson promise that it will be the right to full-time, as it should be in the municipalities, as Jimmie Åkesson usually talks about in the debates? Can Jimmie Åkesson promise that there will not be a staffing of two employees per ten dementia patients in the retirement home? You can read in the newspaper that Frösunda has informed that it will happen. It would be welcome promises from Jimmie Åkesson, and I would like to hear them repeated here and now.
i-7546575806ed9b03-282	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if this is the right context to make that kind of promise. I suggest that Jonas Sjöstedt visit fantastic Sölvesborg – that was next week, wasn't it? – takes the chance to talk to municipal politicians who run these issues. For example, he can talk to the chairman of the care board, who is the one who ultimately knows these questions. I'm sure he'll get answers to his questions. I will not present any promises of Sölvesborg Municipality in the Swedish Parliament. That would be completely unreasonable. On the other hand, we know that the Left Party is a party that abhors private enterprise in general. I am not surprised that Jonas Sjöstedt is speaking here about an individual private company and speaking in general terms about villains and so on. I'm sure there are shortcomings within individual companies in this country. It is possible that this individual company mentioned by Jonas Sjöstedt has shortcomings, but there are also shortcomings in municipal activities. But I do not think that is relevant in this matter. The aim is, of course, that it should be as good as possible. Those with whom Jonas Sjöstedt surrounds himself and talks will probably find it very bad. Others think it's good. Well, we'll just see.
i-7546575806ed9b03-284	Mr President, I would like to I thought I'd get a little bit attached to the climate issue. I get stuck in most things when I get the chance. The climate threat is real. We just had a discussion. Jimmie Åkesson now admits that the climate threat is a problem and a challenge that the Swedish Democrats take very seriously. I think that is a good thing, and I am pleased that the Swedish Democrats have not jumped in mad thin when it comes to nuclear power, but are behind Sweden having a strong carbon-free energy production. This is important because we can then export more to countries and we can reduce coal power not least in the Nordic countries and in the EU in general. More fossil-free production! But the question is how to view the cooperation. The Swedish Democrats are against us working in the OECD, the EU and the World Economic Forum, that is, the global arenas that for us liberals are central. What is Sweden's road to meeting the climate threat more concretely, in addition to Swedish nuclear power?
i-7546575806ed9b03-287	Mr President, I would like to That was a statement of reality that leaves some other things to be desired. When it comes to global environmental problems, for example, it is surely an excellent context to cooperate internationally. If Johan Pehrson had endeavoured to read our budget – I understand that he has not, and I do not think he will, honestly – it is clear, for example, that when we now propose a fourth-generation nuclear research reactor, we also want to participate in European research cooperation. We'll spend money on it. There are a number of such examples in our draft budget. That is how it should be done, i.e. intergovernmental cooperation in order to achieve joint success and development in order to achieve common goals. It's perfectly reasonable and important. I must nevertheless give the Liberals that, together with us in the years we have been here in Parliament, they have been a clear party on the issue of the survival of nuclear power. I'm glad.
i-7546575806ed9b03-290	Mr President, I would like to I note that there is an area within the EU where the Swedish Democrats are in favour of enhanced cooperation, namely research on energy. It is important that we strengthen the Energy Union because together in Europe we are responsible for our common future in this part of the world. Globally, there are a lot of other countries that have to do their part, but we know that Sweden will quickly, preferably first of all or most effectively, come down to zero emissions. That's where we're going. Reducing this and that will not help. It is clear that what you do in China plays a major role, as Jimmie Åkesson usually points out, but we must ensure that we are the best in our part of the world. Then the joint international agreements are so important. Now Jimmie Åkesson supports the Paris Agreement, but it is sad to hear climate-deniers in Sweden Democrats who are opposed to research, who say that there is no fire at all in Australia – type. It's serious. It is important that the Swedish Democrats take the lead that we work together globally in international organisations, not least in the EU, to secure our climate.
i-7546575806ed9b03-294	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, for the sake of clarity, I must admit that I believe there is a fire in Australia!
i-7546575806ed9b03-295	I have not supported any denier either. The problem is not that we should work together globally to reduce emissions. The problem would be what Johan Pehrson mentioned, namely that it is important that we come down here and now to zero emissions in Sweden. No, it's actually not important, Johan Pehrson. In the global context, it is not important for Sweden to come down to zero emissions. The cost to us of coming down further, at zero emissions, is enormous. This money would greatly benefit, for example, in international climate investments or international efforts to develop new energy technologies than in efforts to achieve zero emissions in Sweden. Please, Johan Pehrson and the Liberals, can you not just understand that it is completely wasted that we are going down to zero emissions when other countries behave as they do? That's where we have to put resources.
i-7546575806ed9b03-299	Mr President, I would like to The escalation of the past few weeks in the Middle East is making the world increasingly uncertain. In the area there is oil – historically an ever-great source of bloody conflicts, power struggles and corruption. The fact that the Green Party is fighting for us to replace our dependence on petrol and diesel with Swedish biofuels and renewable electricity and make Sweden independent of imports of fossil fuels doesn't surprise anyone. More surprising is that the Swedish Democrats – a fundamentally so-called nationalist party – spend so much energy and money on Sweden not becoming self-sufficient in fuel for our cars. Why is it, Jimmie Åkesson, that in your shadow budget you spend about 7 billion on reducing petrol tax? This is money that could go to the benefit of the Swedish countryside but which instead favours oil-producing dictatorships. It makes no sense to me, and I would like to hear Jimmie Åkesson's answer to this.
i-7546575806ed9b03-302	Madam President, I would like If people in Sweden, which is a large and elongated country with fairly large distances, cannot drive a car, the national economy and thus the welfare and our entire standard of living will deteriorate. If people were to start taking sailboats internationally at all times instead of flying, the whole world economy would be severely adversely affected. This must be taken into account when making your calculations and when considering which political decisions are the reasonable ones. Is it reasonable in Sweden, which is a large and elongated country with great distances, to make it harder and more expensive for ordinary people with ordinary incomes to transport themselves to work, to school or to whatever they need to do now? Are these reasonable political decisions? My answer is no; the Green Party's answer is yes.
i-7546575806ed9b03-304	Madam President, I would like What the Swedish Democrats and Jimmie Åkesson do is to leave the Swedish population in a dependence on oil from dictatorships that makes it completely in the hands of what is happening in the Middle East and in Russia when it comes to whether the oil price – that is, the petrol price at pump – should go up or down. We in Sweden have the opportunity to benefit our countryside and to produce our own biofuels. It is not about us staying in Sweden; it is about us changing to other alternatives. Oil gives power, but it also contributes to the climate crisis. The day before yesterday the cherry trees bloomed in Kungsträdgården here in Stockholm. It is my Sweden, which I love and which I am afraid is disappearing in the climate crisis that we see before our eyes. Why do the Swedish Democrats subsidise economic interests that profit from destroying the planet? And why, Jimmie Åkesson, don't you want to cut the umbilical cord of oil interests in the Middle East and Russia?
i-7546575806ed9b03-308	Madam President, I would like Sweden is not about to perish just because it blooms in Kungsträdgården – I promise. I just want it said. If anyone is profiting from us driving cars on petrol, it is Isabella Lövin and the Swedish state. Two thirds of the money we spend on refuelling our petrol at the pump goes to Isabella Lövin. This is money that she can then use and allocate to various activities within the framework of the budget that we make decisions on here in the Swedish Parliament. No one would be happier than me if, in the long, medium or short term, we could make ourselves completely independent of various rogue states around the world. I am also working to ensure that we do – for example, we want to retain nuclear power and develop it, so that we do not have to import oil-based or fossil-based electricity from other countries. Isabella Lövin's and the Green Party's policy is a real-world policy that punishes ordinary people with ordinary incomes in our country, and I will never support it.
i-7546575806ed9b03-312	Madam President, I would like For many of us, what is absolutely central to a safe and good life, namely, the family and the home, is too much the opposite. In 2018, 22 women were murdered by their partner. Seven out of ten women murdered in Sweden in 2018 were murdered by their partner. Nevertheless, men's violence against women is an issue that we all too rarely speak seriously about. This can't go on. The Center Party is an active voice for change. We have pushed to ensure that the country's women's and girls' shelters receive longer-term funding. We have also been involved in investing money to step up the work against violence in close relationships and against honour-related violence and oppression, but much more needs to be done. We want to see more severe penalties for gross reduction in women's rights and an increase in both the minimum and maximum penalties. The maximum sentence should be at the same level as – or just above – today's maximum sentence for particularly serious assault, which is ten years, seen to what type of crime this is about. We also want to change the legislation governing child custody in the event of violence in close relationships. We want a guardian who deliberately killed or subjected the other parent to deadly violence automatically to lose custody. In addition, we want to make controlling behaviours in close relationships illegal. This would give women an opportunity to get out of a destructive relationship before it is too late. These three proposals, Madam President, would be important steps forward in stopping men's violence against women and giving more women security back.
i-7546575806ed9b03-318	Madam President, and Anders Jonsson. In the 1990s, I worked as a fitter at Volvo Trucks in Umeå. The crisis in the 1990s hit the truck industry very hard, and there were major redundancies. I was one of those who had to go for a while– I later got to come back to the workplace. In the midst of this grief, it was a certainty to know that the union could negotiate for me. When reductions were made, the trade union could make sure that it was not free for the company to resign, for example, the one who had stood up for his colleagues and been a little uncomfortable. One could not pick out the one who had worn himself out after many years on the band and say that it was the one who was allowed to go and not someone else. You had to do it in order. You had to negotiate, and you had to give and take. This well-functioning system, which protects against arbitrary redundancies, wants to destroy the Center Party by imposing very serious restrictions on the rules of rotation. Why does the Center Party want arbitrariness to prevail in redundancies in Sweden?
i-7546575806ed9b03-321	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. This shows a little bit of the difference in how you view security at your workplace. For the Center Party, security is to have a job in a successful company that can compete in a global market and that can ensure that you have a job to go to. Moreover, it is a security to be able to ensure that you have another job to go to the day you want to leave and that you have a security between jobs. The problem we have in Sweden is that we have built up much too high walls around those who have work and around those who do not have work. This is one of the main causes of the exclusion we have, where more and more people end up further and further away from the labour market, because the walls are far too high. We have taken an important step in the January agreement and are now ensuring that negotiations between unions and employers are started for greater flexibility in the Swedish labour market, and we are proud of that.
i-7546575806ed9b03-325	Madam President, I would like What Anders W Jonsson says is not true. There is simply no connection whatsoever between increasing unemployment and employers being able to deviate from the rules of rotation. It is not a problem that is being addressed. The only thing that happens with the Center Party's proposal is that discretion prevails. A bad boss can point out the one with whom you are dissatisfied and who may have said otherwise on the right basis. Old servants receive instead of a bargained fine pension when the decline comes out on the street knowing that they can't get a new job. All this accomplishes is quiet and frightened workplaces. It provides no more jobs and no increased competitiveness. Nor does it provide much security for those outside. The Center Party is tearing down security systems like the unemployment fund. You're not building them up.
i-7546575806ed9b03-328	Madam President, I would like It is not a question of tearing down the entire security of employment. It is about introducing opportunities to also take skills into account in a situation where you as an entrepreneur end up in a situation where you need to reduce the number of employees. If you, as I do, move out among Swedish small businesses, you know that this is one of the main reasons why the small entrepreneur does not dare to hire one more. If we are to bring unemployment down seriously, not least among the people furthest away from the labour market, we must ensure that Swedish small businesses – that is where jobs grow – dare to take these steps. Then changes in labour law are an absolutely crucial element, and I am pleased that they are part of the January agreement so that we can finally do something about this.
i-7546575806ed9b03-330	Madam President, I would like Before the January agreement, the Center Party went to elections on the slogan A new leadership for Sweden. Annie Lööf personally criticized Stefan Löfven for having a lack of leadership and felt that he chose beautiful, fluffy words before energetic leadership. The Center Party felt that Stefan Löfven had a remarkable view of the countryside and was stuck in a big city thinking. The Center Party felt that Stefan Löfven had lost solidarity with the most vulnerable and that the Social Democrats had been the power party above all. The Center Party accused the Social Democrats of running a dirty election movement and urged Stefan Löfven to raise the level. My question to Anders W Jonsson is: How does the Center Party view Stefan Lövven's leadership today? Is it still twitchy, lacking, anti-rural, unsolidaric, power-full, fluffy, and dirty? How does the Prime Minister's leadership describe today?
i-7546575806ed9b03-333	Madam President, I would like We went to elections to get an alliance government after the last election. Unfortunately, the voters did not support it. The voters did not give us the opportunity to create an alliance government, which we think would have been the best. In this situation, it was important for us to find a way forward other than the destructive cooperation that had taken place during the last parliamentary term, when the government leaned against the Left Party. We succeeded in this in the January agreement. The January agreement contains a very strong liberal reform agenda. There are a number of proposals to strengthen the Swedish countryside. There are proposals to reform the housing market and the labour market. Much of the Alliance's health policy is on the list of things to be implemented. We have managed to bring about a change so that we can now restore the assistance reform, something that is extremely important to us. With the 73-point reform agenda and budgetary cooperation, the difference from what it was during the last parliamentary term will be very clear.
i-7546575806ed9b03-336	Madam President, I would like I still lack the answer to my question how the Center Party today would describe Prime Minister Stefan Lövven's leadership. Several of the parts listed here by Anders W Jonsson are laudable. I commend you for including them in the agreement. Some of them were even the Christian Democrats who were driving the negotiations together with you and others. These parts are positive, but the whole becomes deeply problematic for Sweden. It was still rather harsh words that the Center Party expressed. I repeat: inadequacy, anti-rural, unsolidaric, power-full, fluffy, dirty. How much has this changed? Has that changed? Would the Center Party express itself differently about Stefan Lövven's leadership today?
i-7546575806ed9b03-339	Madam President, I would like There is a considerable difference now with the government that ruled Sweden between 2014 and 2018. At the time, the government took the support of the Left Party to implement very large tax increases, not least on jobs and entrepreneurship. We had a situation in which the assistance reform was gradually dismantled and the queues in health care doubled and in child and youth psychiatry tripled. That is where the big difference lies with the government that is sitting today, because today they are working together with the Center Party and the Liberals. It is a liberal reform agenda with very much of the previous common alliance policy to be implemented. This means that the difference between this government and the government that sat in 2014–2018 is very large, not least in terms of substance policy content. I and the Center Party are extremely proud of this, because Sweden needs more liberal reforms.
i-7546575806ed9b03-341	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. In Australia, the thorny land is burning. People run away from the fires for their lives. The connection with climate change is obvious when the heat record on the heat record is broken. Australia's richest agricultural land is in danger of becoming unusable soon. The smoke is visible over a large part of the southern hemisphere, and the sea is now so warm that the great barrier reef with its unique species wealth is disappearing outside Australia. That is the climate crisis. It's here, right now with a focus on Australia. In Australia, we can also see the climate deniers, who they are, what they say and how they work. Prime Minister Scott Morrison, entirely in the hands of the coal industry in Australia, has been among those who have expressed themselves scoffy, much like Jimmie Åkesson in this House, about those who take the climate problems seriously and want to take the necessary steps. He went on vacation to Hawaii when it burned at its worst. Then, when he ventured out to the areas affected, he was driven away by furious inhabitants who demanded that Australia, one of the world's largest emitters per person and one of the world's great coal exporters, take responsibility. The same kind of climate denier is here. They are in the Swedish Democrats, and they are also partly in the Moderates. There must be an end to this. In that sense, climate is also a right-wing and left-wing issue. There are very few climate deniers on the red-green left side. Sweden's Television called Greta Thunberg a left-wing populist in an attentive political analysis. It says something about our time. The only thing she has said, which is her main message, is to listen to science and act. If it is so to listen to science and act is left-wing populism, the climate issue needs so infinitely more left-wing populism.
i-7546575806ed9b03-346	Madam President, I would like During the last term of office, we often heard Jonas Sjöstedt here in the pulpit of the Riksdag talk about how much influence he had on Swedish politics. It was during that term that the assistance reform was gradually dismantled. It was during this time that the queues in healthcare doubled and in child and youth psychiatry tripled. Not least, we saw how Arbetsförmedlingen worked worse and worse. Few employers could turn to Arbetsförmedlingen and get help in finding new employees. Very few of the unemployed could receive support from the Employment Service. We had 100,000 job vacancies and hundreds of thousands of unemployed. The Arbetsförmedlingen failed the match. Criticism was manifesto from the National Audit Office, unemployed and employers. My question to Jonas Sjöstedt, given his commitment here in the weeks before Christmas on this issue, is: What were the questions that Jonas Sjöstedt and the Left Party were pushing in the four years that you had the power to ensure that a better functioning employment agency was created?
i-7546575806ed9b03-349	Madam President, I would like Anders W Jonsson is a brave man. I almost admire his courage. Imagine that as a center party come to the Chamber and talk about Arbetsförmedlingen after Martin Ådahl has been to Timbroseminarium and got the feeling and thought that everything should be privatized and the great chaos erupts. Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, Then when the Employment Service disappears on the spot after the locality, the center partyist councillors are there asking you to change the policy of a chaos privatisation that is so bad that even your bourgeois party comrades do not think it is good. It's brave, Anders W Jonsson. In fact, it is quite brave to step forward in this way. Today, Arbetsförmedlingen is partly in ruins. You find it difficult to complete your mission, you do not answer the phone and staff leave the authority. The employment agency was far from perfect before. We would not have liked to have burdened it with as much action as was done. We would have liked more access to direct vocational training, which is now being cancelled. But to put what was then, with the flaws and errors that existed, against the complete chaos the Center Party has created – it's brave, Anders W Jonsson.
i-7546575806ed9b03-355	Madam President, I would like The reason for the important reform of Arbetsförmedlingen is that it has been working badly for a long time. There are 100,000 job vacancies, while hundreds of thousands of unemployed people do not get help and employers do not get support. In this situation, a reform of the Public Employment Service is absolutely necessary, and there are many ways to get there. What Jonas Sjöstedt is critical of is the M-KD budget that meant big cuts, but the parties he likes to hook his arm with. With regard to the closure of offices, the Center Party has now ensured that offices will be opened through the regulatory letter. The question remains: What is Jonas Sjöstedt and the Left Party's proposal to ensure that the demonstrably poorly functioning Employment Service can function better? You had the opportunity to influence 2014 – 2018. What did you do? The problems already existed at that time.
i-7546575806ed9b03-359	Madam President, I would like Important elements of our policy are that there should be more vocational training within the Employment Service's own framework, that the activities should not be privatised and that you should have the skills to carry it out yourself, that you should exist all over the country and that you should not be burdened with new tasks, for example in the area of integration, which was done and led to the Employment Service being overloaded. These are some of our comments. Now we have forced the January parties to back down. Offices will be reopened and chaos privatization reconsidered. Now you should know what you do before you do it – something that may seem reasonable to know even in politics but that you didn't know before. Now the Employment Service will have more resources. Now the Center Party is suddenly where the Social Democrats were last term of office. When the Left Party pushes through something really good, you try to take the credit yourself.
i-7546575806ed9b03-362	Madam President, I would like The Left Party is acting soundly. It is no secret that if the Left Party, the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats go together, they have 182 mandates and make up a majority. The January agreement came about so that the Left Party would not have any influence over development because we believe that Sweden needs a number of important liberal reforms that I have noted over the years that the Left Party is rarely in favour of. But now we have this agreement, and it is delivered. Nothing is ever perfect, but we are moving forward – as Sweden has been doing for many years, often against the will of the Left Party. What does the Left Party intend to do? I heard that extra elections were being discussed in this House before. Is the Left Party going to participate in that? It would be interesting to hear the strategy for Jonas Sjöstedt's coming year in this House.
i-7546575806ed9b03-365	Madam President, I would like If there's an extra choice, we're going to take part. That's what I can tell you right now. Seriously, our target is not extra choice. Our goal is not a new government. We were the ones who allowed this government to sit, but it seems to have forgotten that. Our goal is to change the government's right-wing policy. We stopped the chaos privatisation of Arbetsförmedlingen. We will be pressing for more money for prosperity and will not be content with the fuzzy answers we are receiving today. We will not accept breaking the job security of millions of Swedish employees, and we will stop the proposal to introduce market rents in Sweden. This is one of the things we have made clear. There will be more; I can promise you that. But I can't tell you everything, because then it won't be exciting. If the government does not realise that it is a minority government – the January agreement is only an agreement between parties in the minority – it will encounter major problems. My advice to the government is to recognise this and withdraw any plans to break job security and introduce market rents.
i-7546575806ed9b03-370	Madam President, I would like It is a privilege to be a Member of Parliament and to represent people, to be involved in modernising and developing Sweden and to break ideas in such an exciting way with the Left Party, among others. The Left Party, however, has a picture of the Swedish labour market and not least Swedish companies that I find frightening. I just heard in a change of line with Jimmie Åkesson how Jonas Sjöstedt's hatred of private entrepreneurs in the welfare sector completely poured out, despite the fact that these companies represent an important part of the care we together pay for through the tax bill. To obtain a majority, the Left Party must settle with the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates. Are you planning a new January agreement to develop your power? What form do your conversations with the Swedish Democrats take?
i-7546575806ed9b03-373	Madam President, I would like We talk to the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, never to the Swedish Democrats. That is the case, and we will stand by it. A distinction must be made between real business and cheating. Taking advantage of taxpayers' money by having understaffing in care for the elderly, school and health care is not really entrepreneurship. It's a straw into the taxpayer's money bag. I think many real entrepreneurs are not so impressed by companies that undermann elderly care and put the money in their own pocket. The prize hunt doesn't belong there. Commercialisation and the pursuit of profit have contributed a great deal to the fact that the Swedish school is in deep crisis with the segregation we have. The healthcare system in Stockholm is a horror example, and the Liberals have a great responsibility there. There is so much money for consultants and private profit hunting while nurses and doctors get fired. Yes, the Liberals and the Left Party have different views on things. The Left Party does not think that education, care for the elderly and health care should be governed by profit hunting. Here we shall have the same value, human dignity.
i-7546575806ed9b03-377	Madam President, I would like Despite the fact that there is not yet a recession, there is a crisis in Kommunsverige, and it affects welfare. This applies not least to health care, which has major problems throughout the country. Even the richest regions are not able to provide all patients with the right care on time. Even the richest regions are not able to provide staff with good working conditions. This is the case despite the fact that Sweden already invests about as much in healthcare as France and the Netherlands, for example, which do not have the same problems with queues and long waiting times. Medical care needs more resources. There is no doubt about that. But more money alone will not solve the problems of care. It is not money that is the problem when, on average, a German doctor meets three patients at the same time as a Swedish doctor only meets one patient. Nor is it a question of laziness or unwillingness to work if anyone thinks so. No, it has to do with the structure of health care. It is clear that there are no rational reasons to continue running healthcare on the basis of the principle that 21 different regions, county councils, should be responsible. It is ineffective, bureaucratic and obsolete. After eight years at the Ministry of Social Affairs, where we tried a variety of reforms, the Christian Democrats landed in the fact that the state had to take over responsibility. This door has now also M, L and SD opened. I hope to hear more parties either justify their support to the county councils or give their support to the state taking over responsibility. Where you live in the country should not determine your chance to get good care in time.
i-7546575806ed9b03-382	Madam President, I would like In 2006, the Social Democratic Government introduced a law prohibiting health care providers from allowing those who can afford to buy health insurance to crowd out people who cannot afford to do so from the care queues. Unfortunately, the Christian Democrats repealed the law in 2007 and reintroduced the possibility of cream files. However, it was not what they wanted, but Göran Hägglund, then responsible minister and party leader, said that it should never be about cream files and that the common care should be given as needed, not according to the size of the wallet or anything else. Now we see that it was exactly the way we said it wouldn't be. Then I wonder how the Christian Democrats view an initiative to tackle the cream files in health care. I am absolutely convinced that there is strong support in Sweden for the Swedish model, where you get care as needed, not after if you can afford to pay yourself before in the queues. It is therefore worrying to hear how Ebba Busch Thor is now talking about people paying more for health care. What is it that the Christian Democrats want to do here?
i-7546575806ed9b03-385	Madam President, I would like I'm going to tell you something unusual. I intend to answer the Prime Minister's question. We are prepared to support initiatives that ensure that it is not the wallet that determines which care you receive. Nor will we contribute to alternatives, and today we have no policy of having to pay a lot more for the care you need. It is not our policy and it will not be. My question back to Prime Minister Stefan Löfven is: Is Stefan Löfven prepared to do what is necessary to really shorten the care queues and give the staff the working conditions they deserve? Is Stefan Löfven prepared to review the question of a government headship for county councils?
i-7546575806ed9b03-387	Madam President, I would like We have already started to increase resources for health care, and we will have to do more. But there are actually 13 000 more employees in Swedish healthcare now. We are prepared to ensure that welfare funding is secured, but there are a lot of ideas coming from the right. The Moderates decided at their meeting to investigate whether we should not completely leave public funding, and when Ebba Busch Thor had to think freely in an interview in Svenska Dagbladet, she said that we need a discussion about having more private funding and increased fees. Moving towards higher fees is something that the Christian Democrats have already done. The aim is to remove the free mammography for women and to remove the free outpatient care for people over 85. Why do the Christian Democrats want people to pay more out of their own pockets for healthcare, and what is the next step when it comes to people paying more for healthcare?
i-7546575806ed9b03-390	Madam President, I would like First of all, it is not true that we want to remove things that are free of charge. We spend 30 billion more during this budgetary period than the Social Democrats do on welfare and security – 30 billion more! This makes it possible for those regions that believe that free of charge is crucial and see that it makes a difference for people to receive care on time. They have much more room to do this with our budget than with the Social Democrats. Today we have people who pay about 50% in taxes and who still feel that they need to put more money out of their own wallet to ensure that they receive care on time. Why? Because Prime Minister Stefan Löfven is the Prime Minister who has repeatedly broken record in care queues – record! That is what we should be talking about today: how we ensure the right funding and more resources for welfare, more than the Social Democrats put in place, but above all a knowledge of how we ensure that this money really reaches patients and improves working conditions. This know-how does not have S.
i-7546575806ed9b03-392	Madam President, I would like Ebba Busch Thor! We have a very serious welfare crisis. We have redundancies in health care, we have closures of entire businesses in different municipalities and we have ill-considered savings. There is an urgent need for a contribution to municipalities and regions, and we believe that this should be at least SEK 10 billion. I had hoped that Stefan Löfven would tell us today that we will receive a supplement, but no reply came. There were only statements in general. I am concerned about this, because the municipalities must now find out what it will be like. Now that there is no response from the government, I wonder: are the Christian Democrats prepared to sit down with the Moderates and the Left Party in the Committee on Finance and develop a joint initiative that guarantees a significant contribution to welfare?
i-7546575806ed9b03-394	Madam President, I would like Let's try again to answer the question. The answer to Jonas Sjöstedt is: Yes, we are. I share Jonas Sjöstedt's concern about the state of Swedish welfare. We agree that the situation in health care, in particular, is alarming and that the January parties' priorities are wrong. The question is how much more we agree on. The Left Party wants to increase spending by 43 1⁄2 billion this year. This is more than 4 percent of GDP and three times more than Sweden's economic growth. Taxes are increased by 39 billion while the working queue billions are removed. Moreover, one cannot increase taxes in a spring budget. Taxes are raised in the autumn or preferably not at all, if you are a Christian Democrat. Any additional money must therefore be found in the budget already adopted. Therefore, we have identified approximately SEK 7 billion – funded and clearly – which should be re-prioritized to the core of welfare. It is very possible that there is more. Is the Left Party prepared to negotiate on these premises?
i-7546575806ed9b03-397	Madam President, I would like I had hoped that the government would be able to give a reply today and that there would be a proper addition to welfare, but it was only words. I still hope that the government will make a contribution that goes beyond the too low contribution of the Moderates, which is greater than what the Christian Democrats are proposing. It is quite right that we have funding for a welfare that can invest, not just the level that we have now. If the government does not come up with anything more than words, I am prepared to sit down and discuss unconditionally from the viewpoint of the various parties in order to ensure that municipalities and regions have a better economic situation.
i-7546575806ed9b03-399	Madam President, I would like Good, then I think we'll get to work on this. And just so that audiences and viewers keep up with why we are discussing this at all: it has to do with Stefan Löfven and Magdalena Andersson, even though the autumn budget for this year was adopted in this House just a few weeks ago, in December could not anticipate the crisis that we have in the welfare sector around the country. Both the Christian Democrats and the Left Party took different heights for it in their options last autumn. That is why we are prepared to negotiate an additional budget which we could proceed quickly in the Committee on Finance, not wait until June. We must listen to the calls from the municipalities, the elderly and the health care system. Those in need of care and care, as well as staff, deserve better.
i-7546575806ed9b03-401	Madam President, I would like Ebba Busch Thor and I have a lot in common. Our members have side by side in churches and associations Sweden over committed to helping people escape. In this House too, we have stood side by side in the fight for a more humane world, guided by a moral compass when it comes to never leaving the weakest in society alone. But the Christian Democrats have now changed course. The EU is voting against rescue operations for refugees in the Mediterranean, and at home Ebba Busch Thor has changed his conviction that children will be reunited with their parents for ever closer cooperation with the Swedish Democrats. My question to Ebba Busch Thor is: What do you say now to your members who are engaged in church work for hidden refugees and who serve soup to undocumented people? What do you say, and how do you explain the turnaround that you have made in politics?
i-7546575806ed9b03-403	Madam President, I would like For a long time, Sweden has been pursuing a migration policy that leaves many people behind – many of the most vulnerable, many of those whom we have promised in large words here in this House and elsewhere that we will be there for. They often remain in conflict-affected areas – in the trouble spots – in completely inhumane situations. It is many times older people who cannot cope with the dangerous illegal escape routes across the Mediterranean and through Europe. It's many times sick and children. We must have a different order, in which migration policy in Sweden today primarily helps the most vulnerable. We have a great search pressure against Sweden. It's still way too big. It depends on people who do not have the right to asylum. We want to change that.
i-7546575806ed9b03-405	Madam President, I would like I didn't really hear an answer. There are people who have the right to asylum and who apply to Sweden. Now, for example, the Christian Democrats want those children who are fleeing Syria and who are in an extremely vulnerable position then not to have the right to be reunited with their parents. Prior to the election, Ebba Busch Thor said that she absolutely could not imagine a collaboration with the Swedish Democrats in even 20 years' time. Now, according to an interview she has given, she can work with them on all questions. Then I wonder if Ebba Busch Thor does not agree with the old Christian Democrat leader Alf Svensson, who said that there is a colossal senselessness in relation to the Swedish Democrats and that the KD should not have anything to do with them because of their human view. Does Ebba Busch Thor not agree that it is dangerous to build a society that the Swedish Democrats see and that divide us into us and them? I wonder, Ebba Busch Thor, what has caused your moral compass to rotate so quickly that you can now cooperate with the Swedish Democrats.
i-7546575806ed9b03-408	Madam President, I would like Isabella Lövin doesn't seem to be able to read the newspaper and my quotes correctly or keep track of basic asylum reasons. If you are a child or an adult and are in need of protection and a sanctuary in Sweden you should be able to get it. One should not have to doubt it in the way that is happening today because of inadequate and incorrect assessments by, for example, the Migration Agency. If you are a child fleeing Syria, you should be able to get protection here in Sweden. We will never stand in the way of that kind of family reunification. We continue to protect it. But I have also received support from previous party leaders in my own party around that if you are safe in your values you can talk with all parties in the Swedish parliament who are elected, based on their own convictions and on their fundamental values of standing up for what is right and right. And it continues to be our compass on welfare issues and in migration policy.
i-7546575806ed9b03-410	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! I have a daughter who graduated six months ago, and I'm very proud of her. I want her to feel free and secure, find a love and, above all, create her own life – a life she chooses. That goes for all my children, by the way. Next week it is 18 years since another father decided to murder his own daughter — Fadime — because she wanted to live her own life. When I'm going to sleep at night, I can be worried that someone is going to hurt my daughters or my sons. When Fadime went to bed at night, she was worried that her own father would hurt her. With the January agreement as a tool, we have ensured that we further develop and strengthen the difficult and important work against honour-related violence and repression in all forms. The other day there was a report from Norrby, a district in Borås that is one of the so-called vulnerable areas in Sweden. It is about girls who are attacked by moral police for their clothes or because they do not wear a veil and how an ill-liberal clan system has taken control of the whole area. There is still much to be done in Sweden in this regard. Liberals want to see a suburban lift so that Sweden will not have any particularly vulnerable areas in ten years' time. The rule of law must immediately establish its control in these areas, and poverty in all its senses must be combated in the long term. The mental ice age must end. In practice, we are talking about a Marshall plan for the areas where vulnerability is at its worst. It will take the entire decade to succeed. But there are no other liberal options. Our mission is to move people from alienation to inside.
i-7546575806ed9b03-416	Madam President, I would like There was previously a great consensus between the Liberals and the Christian Democrats on criminal policy and the need for more police officers. We both felt that the police were investigating too few crimes and that too few criminals were punished. The Liberals have previously highlighted the New York police as an example of success. An important part of their work was to prosecute criminals even for so-called everyday crimes. We welcome the fact that the Liberals realised that the gang talks with the government were fruitless, because in practice the Green Party got its veto through. But by supporting the January agreement, the Liberals are contributing to increased insecurity. If the budget presented by the January parties last autumn is fulfilled, there will be savings in the judicial system. In a few years' time, the budget will allow the police, the D.A. and the courts to make cuts. What does Johan Pehrson say to those who voted for the Liberals in the belief that this would lead to more people being prosecuted and convicted of crimes?
i-7546575806ed9b03-418	Madam President, I would like Ebba Busch Thor and the Christian Democrats raise a very important issue. A year ago we had a budget from the Moderates and Christian Democrats which we partly indirectly released by not protesting from the Liberals, and for that matter also the Center Party. But last spring we had to add an extra 800 million dollars, because what was allocated in the budget was not enough. Now we have added SEK 700 million extra. And you know what, Ebba Busch Thor, I actually think it needs even more. With regard to the debate now taking place in the media, about which there were press conferences yesterday, I share the view that the money for welfare is not enough. For us Liberals, a functioning rule of law is a large part of a functioning welfare system, because it is for those who are most vulnerable. The Liberals are behind an agreement because we have been given guarantees. And we are pushing for 10,000 more new police workers, which is absolutely crucial. I would like to emphasise that it may be a minimum. We will do more, and more resources will have to be allocated next year.
i-7546575806ed9b03-421	Madam President, I would like We saw a sharp increase in the influx of cases last year. This meant that what was in the KD-M budget was actually not enough when the reality changed last year. That is why we also provided more resources. I am therefore pleased to hear that there is such insight here. Sixty-four percent of the police believe that pay is the most important issue if they are to remain in the profession. The government removed this from the budget. The government didn't want to spend an extra penny during the gang talks. As I said, the special wage investment was removed. The courts receive only half of what they have requested. The initiative at the Prosecutor's Office will in reality be a cut back as early as next year. And the government is therefore underfunding the courts, although it is estimated that the number of criminal cases will increase by 35% between 2015 and 2022. The police have calculated that there is a shortage of SEK 1 1⁄2 billion to reach 10,000 more police employees in 2024.
i-7546575806ed9b03-423	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Ebba Busch Thor is pushing this forward. As I said in my opening speech, the January Agreement regulates a number of questions about how we take Sweden forward with liberal reforms. One of the cornerstones of justice is that there will be 10,000 more new police employees. It must reasonably have consequences in the rest of the judiciary. When I travel around and visit my old workplace Örebro District Court or the Migration Court in Gothenburg I see what the target rooms look like, how the files stand there and risk collecting dust at a large cost and to great detriment both to those who are victims of crime and to those who are waiting for a decision to stay or not. These long queue times mean a loss of justice. I usually say that you can have queues at Systembolaget, but you should not have queues to the court. I promise you the money will come. It is also a question of self-preservation by the government. Otherwise, you're not even re-elected.
i-7546575806ed9b03-426	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. For the third year in a row, Sweden came first in the ranking of which countries have the best climate policy. It is international environmental organisations that do that ranking. Emissions are coming down, despite the fact that we have had a strong boom and that it takes time for reforms to come into force. Sweden is now on the map when Europe's largest wind farm is being built in Piteå, Europe's largest battery factory is being built in Skellefteå and the world's first fossil-free steel industry is being built in Luleå. With green politics, thousands of jobs are created outside the big cities. Climate change has laid the foundations for a new green wave, yet there are parties that want to stop it. It is said in this House that it does not matter what we do because Sweden is so small and our emissions so small. It's wrong in three ways. Firstly, it matters what we do, because it benefits ourselves. It benefits our industry, our employment and our environment. Secondly, if all countries that account for less than 2% of the world's emissions were put together into one country, we would be the largest emitter on earth – bigger than China, India and Russia together, that is, the largest emitter on earth. Thirdly, we are showing the leadership that the world desperately needs now. Since the adoption of our Climate Act, other countries have been following us, and now Finland, Denmark and Austria have more ambitious climate targets than we have. The world needs faith in the future, but belief in the future is not about believing or hoping for the best, but about working for a better future. I want to say as Ingemar Stenmark : I don't know anything about luck; the only thing I know is that the more I practice, the more luck I have. The bright future we create ourselves by working here and now.
i-7546575806ed9b03-433	Madam President, I would like Today's research report presents Swedish policy for global climate. It believes that global emissions reduction must be the real objective of policy. Now it is scientists and not politicians who have written it, and they probably don't think like either your party or my party, Isabella Lövin – but maybe they can teach us something. They say that closures of existing nuclear power plants risk leading to large increases in emissions in neighbouring countries such as Poland and Germany by reducing the export of fossil-free electricity and replacing it with coal-based electricity. How does Isabella Lövin view all warnings that decommissioned nuclear power in Sweden increases emissions in the world?
i-7546575806ed9b03-435	Madam President, I would like First of all, Sweden has never had as large an electricity surplus as we have right now. We are exporting to countries such as Finland, where the nuclear power plant decided on in the early 2000s is still being built. The costs of building that nuclear power plant have run out – it has tripled – and once completed, the cost for consumers will be much higher than for those who buy cheap wind power. We have an explosion of wind power in Sweden right now, and there are 18 terawatt hours in the pipeline. This is being built on a purely market-based basis. My question to you, Ulf Kristersson, is therefore: When you talk about owners other than Vattenfall having decided, on a market-based basis, that it is not profitable to renovate old reactors such as R1 and R2 – which owners do you think about? Is it Russian investors, or is it Chinese? Who are they? There are no market players wishing to invest in R1 and R2.
i-7546575806ed9b03-437	Madam President, I would like I note that Isabella Lövin does not even address my question in her answer. She's not even close. So I want to know how Isabella Lövin views the warnings that closed Swedish nuclear power would increase emissions in other parts of the world. I ask the question even more simply: are the researchers, analysts and forecasts wrong who now say that emissions in other countries will be affected and that the global climate risks being affected if we phase out Swedish nuclear power? Are they wrong, Isabella Lövin?
i-7546575806ed9b03-438	Madam President, I would like All countries have signed that we will achieve the 1.5-degree target. Germany is about to phase out its coal and nuclear power; there is an explosion of electricity from wind and sun, that is, renewable electricity, there. Denmark has set an even more ambitious target than Sweden has. If the countries live up to their promises, then the coal power to which these researchers refer will not exist. What we import a few days a year is not primarily coal power from Germany, but it is hydropower from Norway. The Energy Agreement, which provides stability for huge investments and creates thousands of jobs in Sweden right now, the Moderates have failed and left. It has created uncertainty for the explosion of renewable electricity that we so desperately need. We need to invest in research into storage and transmission, not in rusty reactors.
i-7546575806ed9b03-440	Madam President, I would like The tax policy of January is radically different from that of the Alliance, which the Christian Democrats have always stood for. When we as a social bourgeois party directed our tax cuts, they have always gone primarily to low and middle wage earners. This was noticed in the M-KD budget, which gave a normal family several hundred crowns more a month. Broad tax cuts are part of a welfare policy that allows more families, for example, to buy a house or build up their own savings. Now it's different. Although the main reform in the government's budget was reduced tax, the health assistant received SEK 0. The teacher received SEK 0 from this, and the police received SEK 0. However, Isabella Lövin received a tax reduction corresponding to two full monthly salaries for a nurse. Why is it more important for a minister to have a tax cut than for a nurse to get it?
i-7546575806ed9b03-442	Madam President, I would like I really do not think it is more important for a minister to have a tax cut than for a nurse to have it; I would like it to be the other way around. However, I think it is important that politicians are reasonably honest in what they say in the Swedish Parliament. We have an audience and a TV viewer who really believes in this. Ebba Busch Thor himself offered a removal of the military tax in order to sit in government with the Center Party and the Liberals. My question to Ebba Busch Thor must therefore be: How could you make such an offer if you think it is so bad? Was it so important to be allowed to sit in the Government Office, with the support of the Swedish Democrats, that you could sacrifice the salaries of the nurses?
i-7546575806ed9b03-444	Madam President, I would like Last week we heard this attack from Mikael Damberg on TV, and now we hear it from Isabella Lövin. You sound like you've found something that's been hidden – a radical revelation – but we put this on paper and were completely open. I have no problem with hardworking people getting reduced taxes and a little more left in their wallet at the end of the month. What I think is completely irresponsible and indefensible is that a minister receives nearly 50 000 SEK in reduced tax this year while a health worker or a police officer receives 0 SEK in tax reduction. When we lower the tax, everyone gets a share of it, and we have targeted it primarily at low and middle income earners. We did not choose to prioritise the military tax in our individual budget. We were prepared to do it in negotiation, but not just. We would never have done that. Families with children shouldn't have to pay the bill when we're in charge, but that's obviously the way MP and S control.
i-7546575806ed9b03-447	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that post, Ebba Busch Thor! It wasn't very clear. Ebba Busch Thor apparently thinks it is good if hard-working high-income earners get reduced tax, and at the same time it is wrong if they get it. I stand up for what the Green Party thinks, and it is not a matter of prioritising reduced tax rates for those who earn the most. It never will be. Ebba Busch Thor apparently wanted to give it to get an alliance government. It wasn't a secret, and Ebba Busch Thor just confirmed it. Good! What this government is doing is raising the pensions of pensioners who have worked a whole life and need reinforcement. We'll raise the housing supplement. We support the construction of cheap rentals. It is a long series of reforms that make things actually much easier for those who today have the greatest needs. When Ebba Busch Thor and the Moderates vote through budgets, taxes are reduced for the richest.
i-7546575806ed9b03-450	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the floor on this somewhat unorthodox dossier. I fully understand that practices are evolving over the time that legislation is in force. I have been amused to read the preliminary work on the first parliamentary order with the first discussions on the possibility of taking replacements into Parliament. It was clear there that the application should, of course, be granted. In other cases, as is currently the case, liberal practice should be applied. Members should be entitled to leave for individual matters, such as family matters, self-service or business, business travel, etc. m. ..................................................... The view of what it should be like to be a Member of Parliament and how we best represent the country has changed over the years. That, of course, is the case. For my part, I am convinced that my work as a Member of Parliament does not deteriorate but, on the contrary, is improved by the fact that I have the opportunity to be the person I am. I've been working in this house for almost nine years. Over the years, I have seen many colleagues, members of parliament and others working in this industry have their lives more or less ruined by the fact that the work requires you to be in place all the time. I do not want to be such a Member of Parliament. I come from a family-friendly party, and for me it is a matter of course that when I get married– which is why I have applied for leave– it is a time that my new husband and I will have to spend getting to know each other so that I can also eventually be a Member of Parliament with full energy and in the best way. That is why I have applied for leave for a month so that I can focus fully on the situation I am entering, while the work of the Riksdag does not suffer. I know there are different wills. I know there are people who think you should be here all the time. However, for the sake of my conscience, I could not be absent without doing all I can to try to get a replacement in place, precisely so that Parliament's work will not suffer because for a period of time I will inevitably be absent and not be able to focus on other things. I'll be inaccessible. It is against this background that I wish the House to take a final position on this matter.
i-7546575806ed9b03-461	Madam President, I would like I wish I could say: here we are at last with a legislative product that the government has obtained in the best possible way. The ambition to make it easier and cheaper to build small houses and homes has been achieved. Unfortunately, this is not the case, nor is it this time. It is astounding, one might think, given the low pace of reform that the government is holding. Even with this snail speed, you can't get what you get out of your hands right. We can see that our new Minister of Housing Per Bolund – or new and new, but our Minister of Housing for the past year – has barely delivered a single proposal for housing policy. And now that we are finally here with a housing policy proposal, which one might think is a housing policy proposal on the margin, the government has managed to complicate things far more than necessary. It was the case that an investigation from Boverket suggested that we could build complementary buildings and supplementary residential buildings up to 30 square meters. When the government gets this investigation in its hand, it chooses to complicate the regulations and say: No, we should not have a order where we have a type of certifier house. We shall have a system where we have two types of attefallshus, where the variant that may be 30 square meters will be subject to a wide range of requirements, namely the same requirements that apply to the construction of a new residential building. You need to have an accessible toilet, you need to isolate the house, you need to have three-glass windows, you need to have a wide range of things that make this building unnecessarily expensive. And let us say that 75% of the houses that have been built so far in Sweden have not complied with these requirements. They would therefore not be allowed to reach 30 square metres under current legislation. Madam President, I would like If one strives to simplify construction, one should not bother if people choose to build a sauna, a greenhouse, an overnight room or a building that maintains full housing standards for all year round housing. We shouldn't be trying to control it from here with point sticks. It is, of course, welcome if people want to build up to the higher standard, but we should not, like the government, force people to choose an option that is far more expensive than is really necessary and that in many cases is completely ineffective. Let us note that, with the new requirements, the entire size gain of the proposal, i.e. the 5 square metres, will be spent on the insulation and accessibility of bathrooms. Let us ask ourselves the question: Is it really the case that in a building of 30 square meters you feel that you want to use 4 of these square meters for a toilet? Actually, I doubt it. This is an unnecessary bureaucracy on the part of the government, which completely lacks demand on the Swedish market. If you don't want to take my word for true, you can read the interview that Svenska Dagbladet did with Sweden's largest manufacturer of attefallshus. He notes that this is an obstacle and something that is not requested by the broad customer base that builds attefallshus. He notes that, as I said, 75% of the buildings currently being built will be allowed to reach only 25 square metres because they do not meet the higher standards. Therefore, in all our wisdom, we Moderates have put forward a supplementary proposal which would mean that the Riksdag later in our day will pass a strong law to change this fad on the part of the government. We have therefore put forward a proposal which will now soon be submitted to the Legal Council for an opinion and which means that all houses of attefall size will be allowed to reach 30 square metres. It would certainly be to simplify this institute. Then, of course, we will ensure that the government takes further steps to come back with more building permits-free measures and that, in the long term, perhaps, these buildings can be even larger. To do as the government does and to complicate this by introducing different size categories with different requirements is completely ineffective and is not requested by the industry. In view of that, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal in the proposal but also to say to all those who are thinking about what is happening to this that they should have confidence. There will be another proposal from the Swedish Parliament later this spring that will correct this mess. I would also like to support our reservation 1 that the government should come back with more building permits-free measures.
i-7546575806ed9b03-472	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2 and saying that I am pleased that the government is now finally coming up with a proposal in this area in order to increase the number of square metres of the classic attefallshusen. We have waited a long time for the proposal. It has been on the government table for a long time, for it was supposed to ensure that it was properly founded when it was presented and appeals and the like had been reviewed. On the other hand, our reservation 2 shows that we believe that the government should have gone a step further when it comes to building permit-free matters and that they should not have to be dealt with in the way the government is proposing today without having a more simplified form for this. We believe that this is a good opportunity, as is also shown in the bill, to be able to obtain more housing, although we may not believe that this will mean any major change in the housing policy market. We have also read the answers from a number of consultation bodies that are concerned about the cultural-historical-valued areas and believe that there is a risk of distorting the urban environment in the areas in question. We think it is important to follow up so that it is not the case that the consultation bodies are concerned about, i.e. that cultural areas can be adversely affected. We have not seen any major problems with the earlier attefallshusen, but since this means more square meters, one can imagine that the interest in these houses is greater. We believe that this is an important issue to follow. As we now present a series of proposals that make it easier to build complementary residential buildings and complementary buildings, it can have an impact on many other areas in the residential environment. The Swedish Democrats also support the future sharp proposal from the Moderates that the number of square metres should be increased from 25 to 30 also in the case of complementary buildings and not only complementary residential buildings. It is a question that will arise in a later debate in Parliament, but we can already announce that we support the Moderates' proposals. Broadly speaking, it is a good thing that new proposals are coming up in this area, although we feel that we could have gone much further in a number of areas affected by this proposal. However, we have also felt, as the committee has said, that we should not prolong the process, but we first of all call for the proposal in this proposal to come up with a sharp proposal at a second stage, in which we also increase the number of square metres for complementary buildings.
i-7546575806ed9b03-478	Madam President, I would like Sometimes you feel that you want to scream as loudly as Gert Fylking did when he screamed: Finally, we have a proposal from the government that can somehow affect the housing situation, albeit at a margin. Finally, we have a proposal from the government that the attefallshusen should now have the opportunity to grow from 25 to 30 square meters. We Christian Democrats support that change. We believe that a little larger houses will make them more useful. In these times when we build too little and there is a shortage of housing, this is a welcome change, although it will not be the solution that allows us to breathe out. However, I am concerned that the government is now beating its chest over this change and in every debate we have about the lack of housing will bring this out as evidence of a high pace of reform. The pace of new reforms is very low, and it is well clear that housing and housing shortages are not the focus of the January parties. The amendment extends the permitted building area of a supplementary dwelling building that may be constructed without a requirement for building permits in the immediate vicinity of a one- or two-dwelling building from 25 to 30 square metres. The proposal aims to increase the construction of complementary residential buildings and make it possible to build such houses with a higher quality of living. We Christian Democrats support this. However, we are not satisfied that the change only concerns complementary residential buildings and not all attefallshus. It would be natural for this to apply to all houses, and I am pleased that the committee has taken the decision to start work on a legal text that will make it possible, as proposed by the Moderates. It will take some time before that work is done, but I have great confidence that it will be good both as a legal text and for the citizen. Then we believe that the intention of the attefallshuset would be easy for the individual to perform by simply reporting that they intend to do so has been broken down in Byråkratisverige. We want to go back to the situation that only one notification should be made to the municipality that it intends to build an attefallshus, and I understand that the government has the same opinion and is working on a proposal on it. A record number of young people live at home with their parents even though they would really like to leave home. 280 000 are involuntary residents, according to the Tenant's Association. Being a mambo is now the most common form of living for a young person. Plans for starting a family or starting a new job in another city cannot become a reality and may be postponed to an uncertain tomorrow. I would appeal to the January parties to give priority to the housing issue and to address the housing shortage in Sweden, which cannot be resolved without courageous proposals to ease credit restrictions, continue to streamline the planning process and give those who build an opportunity to build and manage without being worried about going at a loss. Once again, we want to see proposals on housing and start-up loans and review the credit restrictions. But above all, we want courage and responsibility. I cannot see that the government and the January parties show courage or responsibility for the housing shortage that we have in Sweden – not in this House and not in debate papers. This government has been leading the country for five years, and it has not shown courage or responsibility. I hope that this debate will show this and that it will be the start of the January parties and the government taking responsibility for the housing issue. With these words, I call for reservation 2.
i-7546575806ed9b03-486	Madam President, I would like In terms of courage and responsibility, much more housing has been built over the past five years than during the total time of the alliance government. But I agree that we need to take responsibility and be brave. With regard to the five square metres that we are debating today, it may not be a question of courage and responsibility for solving the housing shortage. But there are solutions. To solve the housing shortage in Sweden, several different parts are needed. This is part of it, Madam President. The Prime Minister and the Government have invited large parts of the industry to a meeting now in February, precisely to take joint responsibility. This is not something that politics will solve on its own, either at national or municipal level. But together with the industry we will take steps forward. I think that's bravery. I shall move on to the proposal. Another five square meters is what this bill is all about. Five square meters may seem quite small. But it can be quite a lot. In Sweden, we have a regulatory framework that exempts homes under 35 square metres from a wide range of things that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin mentioned earlier in the speaker's chair. You don't have to have an accessible complementary dwelling house if the dwelling is 30 square meters, as Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin said. You can read about this. It says that it can but not that it should be that way. The same applies when we build small apartments. There are also other rules. And we have introduced those changes quite recently. These five square meters can mean that it becomes an accessible dwelling. They can mean having a toilet, perhaps even a sensible toilet for those who want one. But it does not have to be accessible. Why does the government choose to move on in this section only when it comes to complementary residential buildings? This is about the legal situation. Under the ECHR, we do not live up to the requirements of appeal. However, because of the housing shortage, the government chooses to proceed with the housing section, before we have managed to resolve the legal situation regarding the appeal possibilities. However, until we have settled the legal situation, it is not responsible to go further and review whether other complementary buildings will also be expanded in area. I support the proposal in the report.
i-7546575806ed9b03-493	Madam President, I would like Let's start where Emma Hult left off. It is true that there are exceptions for dwellings of less than 35 square metres. But those exceptions mean that one can combine the same area for several things. However, it does not allow for exceptions to the accessibility requirements for bathrooms. That is why today we have a situation which, among other things, means that student housing is being built with far too large bathrooms in relation to what is needed. This would, of course, be the consequence of these requirements, too, in relation to the size of the building. This is an example of the government constantly deciding to complicate matters. I want to ask Emma Hult some straight questions. Why is it a problem if people want to build a 30 square meter greenhouse? Why is it a problem if people want to build a 30 - square - square - meter [30 sq m] sauna or storeroom? Why is it a problem if people want an overnight room of 30 square meters that does not meet all year round? Why does the government see this as such a big problem that it even chooses to abandon its own investigation and put time and energy on the hassle of a simple proposal from the beginning? It makes no sense, Madam President. Whether you think this is an important reform or a change on the margins, it is incomprehensible that our government can engage in the hassle of simple proposals that are ready and ready to be implemented.
i-7546575806ed9b03-497	Madam President, I would like I want to thank Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin. If the legal situation had been different, it would not have been a problem. I personally find it somewhat problematic that we go forward with increasing the number of square metres of complementary residential buildings. But in the second wave I see that in this situation it is important that we can create more housing. I don't think it's a problem if people want to build a 30 square meter greenhouse. You can do that today, but you have to apply for a building permit for it. The legal situation is such that, under the European Convention, we have not worked out how the neighbours should have the right to complain or not. I therefore think that we must first sort it out. It has also been announced by the government that it should do so. That is the essence of this challenge.
i-7546575806ed9b03-501	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, there is not much in Emma Hult's reasoning that goes hand in hand. If the legal situation were to be so problematic in relation to the ECHR, this proposal would not have been brought forward even. The legal situation does not become more clear simply because it requires a accessible bathroom. That is a completely incomprehensible argument. In addition, Sweden is a sovereign state. And this is the highest decision-making body in the state. It is we in this room who own the legal situation and decide what we want to do with it, Madam President. If the government thinks the issue is too ill prepared, it would have been possible to remedy it. This has been talked about for two years, and the outflow of what was easy and easy to understand for all involved is a complicated proposal. Many Swedes are also disappointed. They've been waiting to build another five square feet. But it turns out that in order to do so, they need to build an accessible bathroom, winter insulation, have three-glass windows and whatever it may be. It is completely unnecessary and completely wasted by the government, Madam President.
i-7546575806ed9b03-504	Madam President, I would like I don't know if Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin perceived any of what I just said as funny because he began his final line by laughing at it. It's a bit of a master technique. But what tactics Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin wants to use is up to him. The government adds five square meters so that you can build a toilet, so that it can become a decent dwelling and so that we can make sure to create more housing in Sweden so that more people will get somewhere to live. That's what the government does. I want us to sort out the legal situation before we move on with those parts. That is also what the Committee on Civil Liberties will do, with what the Moderates have pushed forward in committee. We need to create more housing. This is part of doing it.
i-7546575806ed9b03-508	Madam President, I would like I have no doubt that Emma Hult has both courage and responsibility. Unfortunately, history shows that the government does not have the same courage or take the same responsibility as Emma Hult. Those of us who know how planning processes take place in the municipalities know that it takes around three, four or five and maybe six or seven years before a dwelling is completed. This means that the homes completed in 2015 – 2018 are actually a consequence of the work done by the alliance government in 2006 – 2014. This also means that the housing that is being completed right now is a consequence of the work done by the government that was set up in 2014 – 2018. And it is clear that the number of homes built in Sweden is decreasing. It decreased in 2018, it decreased in 2019 and there are forecasts showing that it will also decrease in 2020. The projections for 2021 also show that it will decrease. That is why I am saying that it is important for politicians and the January parties to be courageous and dare to take responsibility. They are responsible for Sweden. They are responsible for ensuring that there are conditions for people and businesses to build housing. It's great that you come up with a product like this, as far as possible. I realise that there are things that make it problematic to make proposals for all attefallshus. That is why I am pleased and happy that the committee has made a different assessment. However, I believe that if you have courage and want to take responsibility, there are more measures that need to be taken. More things need to be done in order for us to get up the number of homes built in Sweden. Is Emma Hult prepared to push the Minister for Housing so that the projections for 2021 and perhaps forward show an increase in construction so that we can get more housing in Sweden?
i-7546575806ed9b03-514	Madam President, I would like I thank Larry Söder for the compliment he started the line shift with. But I believe that both me and the government take responsibility and have courage. I think that a municipality's average planning process is not four years but maybe two, so that peak in 2017 we can still take some cred for. But it is above all the work in the municipalities, where we sometimes run together and sometimes are against each other, that makes it build as much as it has done. We are not building housing on the government's side or from the national side. Yes, I am absolutely prepared to move the matter forward. We need to ensure that more housing is built and that we get a forecast that is if not high and increasing so at least even, so that we have good rules for those who build and for those who are going to live in our country. We need to do that together, because this is something that needs to last for a long time. This is a proposal that will hopefully create more housing. The legislation that you implemented when you were in government clearly had some shortcomings, because there has been a legal uncertainty that we are now trying to sort out. I hope that together we will be able to do so, so that it can be easy to build complementary residential buildings in the future as well.
i-7546575806ed9b03-518	Madam President, I would like If you have courage and take responsibility, why not put forward a proposal to review the credit restrictions? If one has courage and takes responsibility, why does one not look at the possibility of introducing couples? If you have courage and take responsibility, why do you not make sure that it is possible to take a starting loan? I know those thoughts exist, but you don't dare. If you have courage, you should also take the help of all parties in the Swedish parliament to see where we can find each other, what the common denominator is and what we can go forward with. But you don't have the courage to do that. We in the opposition have been asking for quite a long time when there are housing policy talks, so that we can discuss in detail how we can resolve this. This isn't just a problem for the government. It is a problem for the Swedish people, and it is the Swedish parliament that will help in such parts. Where is the courage for this? If you don't dare, I mean, you don't take responsibility.
i-7546575806ed9b03-521	Madam President, I would like Now this debate is about five square metres in complementary residential buildings. But I like Larry South widening it. All the measures that Larry Söder chose to address are those that we are discussing. They could have been carried out with some previous government constellation, but that was not done at the time either. As Larry Söder knows, there are challenges in terms of both financing and design. I hope that the meeting that the Prime Minister, together with the Minister for Housing, has called in February will also lead the way on these issues. I hope that the industry will make sure to say that we need both this and other things in order to move forward. I am also convinced that it will have to come to economic reform in this area. It is not only our dear planning and construction team that needs to be made more holes in and more exceptions from. This is not how we build all the housing that needs to be built in Sweden.
i-MSjX2NwtUCZh4twH4k8gMi	Madam President, I would like I support the proposal contained in the CU6 report. The Government commissioned Boverket to review the question of judicial review of the new building permit-exempt measures introduced in 2014 and to investigate the conditions for extending the building area from 25 to 30 square metres for the currently granted building-exempt complementary residential buildings and complementary buildings, in everyday terms called attefallshus. The assignment also included a review of the conditions for merging and simplifying the provisions on building permit-exempt measures for one- and two-housing buildings. Based on Boverket's proposal and on the views of the consultation bodies, not least the Swedish Law Council, the Government has stated that a major review of the regulations on building permits needs to be carried out in order not to conflict with the ECHR. In principle, all consultation bodies require that the legal shortcomings of the regulatory framework be addressed. However, the government already wants to implement some of the changes proposed by Boverket, namely the extension of the building area for complementary residential buildings. We Social Democrats share the government's view on the basis of the following arguments. Extending the building area from 25 to 30 square metres will create better living qualities in the homes that are already being built. This would make these more attractive by keeping basic functions within the building and thus making the dwelling more independent from the main building. Freedom of choice would also increase for the individual by providing more opportunities for alternative planning solutions, while complying with accessibility requirements. Complement residential buildings without building permits have only had a limited impact on housing supply, but with an increased building area from 25 to 30 square metres, a quarter of Sweden's municipalities estimate that the construction of complementary residential buildings can increase. Given the great need for housing in large parts of our country, it is urgent to change this part as soon as possible in order to increase access to housing. As far as the housing supply is concerned, housing needs to be produced that corresponds to what people can afford to ask for. Complement residential buildings can be part of this change. A contributing part of the fall in housing production, especially of expensive residential units in Stockholm, is that the price picture has become too high. This flagged Swedish Construction Industries for the spring of 2015. In their report, to which I have referred since then, they point out that housing in the price range then built could only be demanded by around 170 000 households by 2020 in a high-scenario scenario. However, this level has now passed by far. Between 2015 and 2019, more than 280 000 homes have been started. Nevertheless, the report shows that no one can be surprised that the market in expensive homes was saturated. That is also why the Social Democratic-led government introduced investment aid – in order to build cheaper rentals that normal earners can demand. Not only have 25 000 new rental apartments been created with the support. It is also a clear signal of the need for lower-cost housing. Several housing developers work to develop housing in different forms that correspond to what people can afford to demand. For example, there is a cooperative housing developer who has really tried the form of rent purchase. Households who today may not have enough equity for the operation will have the opportunity to rent the dwelling for a few years in order to save money and then buy their right-of-occupancy apartment. Madam President, I would like What is important, however, is that all parties assume their responsibility for the production of housing that the vast majority can demand. It has fallen, but what we see in Boverket's forecasts is a stabilisation of 50 000 homes per year. It is historically quite a high figure, but it is certainly not enough. However, no more housing will be built than people can afford. Therefore, if construction is to increase further, more housing needs to be built for normal wage earners. Then the prices can't run away. But that is what has been happening for many years, and thus many people have been excluded from being able to ask for a newly produced dwelling. Madam President, I would like Therefore, measures such as investment support, which is now clearly in the budget, need to be further simplified in the planning process in order to speed up construction and thus keep costs down, simplified accounting rules for the common good in weak housing markets and more – to mention some of the proposals included in the January agreement. As Emma Hult has just mentioned, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Housing have invited industry representatives to discuss how to increase construction in February. It requires all parties to assume their responsibilities. The state, companies and municipalities must do their utmost to ensure good housing provision. To end where I started my post: The expansion of the building area of the complementary residential buildings is a small but nonetheless important part of the housing supply. Madam President, I would like I would once again like to support the proposal contained in the CU6 report.
i-7546575806ed9b03-539	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Leif Nysmed, for a speech which was certainly largely about very different things from those we are debating today. I cannot help but cling to the argument put forward that the proposal has been complicated because the legal situation is uncertain. What is referred to is that the establishment of an attefallshus cannot be appealed by, for example, neighbours. But why should the legal situation be made more clear simply because it is required that the attefallshuset contains a large bathroom? It doesn't make any sense. I would like to return to what is at the heart of the matter. The government does not like freedom of choice. The government does not like when people decide for themselves what their buildings should look like and what they should contain. It appeared earlier in the line shift with Emma Hult. The reason we're expanding by five square meters is because you're gonna have to build a bathroom. It's so it can fit a larger bathroom. What if you don't want a bathroom in your attache house? What if you want to build a greenhouse? What if you want to build a sauna or do something completely different? Why does the government devote so much effort and effort to making things difficult for people when it would have been much easier just to follow the investigation's proposals?
i-7546575806ed9b03-543	Madam President, I would like If we were to follow Mr Boverket's proposal, we would not have tabled this proposal at all. It's clear in the bill. You can read it yourself. Just browse the pages. However, we choose to go forward with the housing section and enable those who want to build a dwelling from their attefallshus to be able to do so. It should be possible to do so as soon as possible right now from March. I thought we agreed on that in committee. As far as the legal situation is concerned, we have nothing against extending the second part to 30 square metres. However, it is from the legal point of view that it is problematic to move forward with major changes. Therefore, we choose to take the part that we think is most important, and that is the housing part. Complement residential buildings can be extended by five square metres. Then I don't really understand. If we build a residential building in the form of an attefallshus, why would it be so strange that you want a nice bathroom or a nice toilet? What's the problem with that? It is an opportunity that is opened up and not a must. We have slightly different views on this issue. I can tell. I don't think we're going to solve this issue here in the speaker's seat. This is something that opens up the freedom of choice for those who will be able to get a home in a boarding house in the future. Let's get back to the second question, which I don't think we're so disagreeable about either.
i-7546575806ed9b03-548	Madam President, I would like The argument is completely devoid of logic. On the one hand, they say: The current situation is contrary to the EKMR. That is why we are putting forward a proposal which is also contrary to the EKMR because we think it is urgent. The European Court of Human Rights simply has to decide the matter and then come back and change the legislation in general. It is quite unreasonable to resolve this issue by drawing the line by demanding a larger bathroom for some atte-houses and not doing it for others and thus saying that we have solved the issue. It doesn't make any sense. My point, Leif Nysmed, is that I don't want to force people to choose one or the other. Of course it's nice to have a good bathroom. It is clear that those who want to build a good bathroom will be allowed to do so. That is why we are voting through the bill today. My question to you is: Why do you want to deprive other people who do not want a bathroom in their attefallshus the opportunity to build 30 square meters? That's the core of the matter. Then it does not agree with any logic to stand and refer to the EKMR when you go forward with a proposal that enables the construction of houses of 30 square meters but makes demands on what they look like inside. That's hardly what people want to appeal.
i-7546575806ed9b03-552	Madam President, I would like I don't really understand the problem of what you're saying, Carl-Carl-Oskar. Those who choose to build a complementary dwelling house should have a toilet, right? It needs to be a good toilet, we might think. Nor is there any requirement for it to look in a certain way. There are exceptions, as we have argued here. For those who want to build a sauna there is no requirement for them to have a toilet or if they want to build a larger friggebod. You can only build 25 square meters so far. That's what it depends on. But you don't have to have a toilet in the friggeboden. We can iron that right away. This applies precisely to the supplementary housing unit. It is important that we go forward with the housing section. It is still the heart of the matter. We already want to increase the possibility before we get any changes through. The investigation looks at the big picture of how we avoid clashing with the European Convention. It must be our goal not to do so. This is a small part. If we had the whole part and allowed all the fall houses to be 30 square meters, it would be a far greater departure than it is today. We will see if we have made that assessment right or not when we continue the committee's proceedings. It will be interesting to see what the Law Council says to us in its referral opinion. It may well change my mind if it has a good argument for it. But right now I don't see that possibility. The important thing is that we get to move on with the housing part in order to also be able to create more attractive housing in the attefallsform.
i-7546575806ed9b03-557	Madam President, I would like The change of line between Leif Nysmed and Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin clearly showed the difference between the opposition and the majority when it comes to the prison house. I thought I'd broaden the discussion a little bit. Leif Nysmed raised the issue of investment aid in the speaker's chair. I would like to ask why Leif Nysmed believes that business support policy is more important than housing policy. Business support is when you give aid to a company, which is the investment aid. I have argued quite a number of times in this speaker's chair for having a nesting pair instead. It is a support that goes to the individual who needs housing, that is, housing policy. Why is Leif Nysmed so keen on enterprise support policy and not on housing policy?
i-7546575806ed9b03-560	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder wants to know why I'm turning for investment support. It is a purely practical and pragmatic issue. I know that in the end it provides lower rents than the rentals produced by the presumption system that exists today, the presumption rents. That is absolutely crucial. If we are to build housing – whether it is owned or rented – the cost must be reduced in order for normal wage earners to be able to demand housing. It is a pragmatic issue. It's not an ideological question or anything. It is not something that Karl Marx has written about before in any book in the 19th century. It is a pragmatic solution that produces results. It also puts pressure on the rest of the market to keep down the final cost for those who will either buy or rent their home. If we do not get more rental apartments, the rest of the market that cannot be controlled will not hold back the costs. That is my opinion. I think there is a need for support, which means that normal income earners can also ask for a newly produced dwelling.
i-7546575806ed9b03-564	Madam President, I would like I noted that Leif Nysmed did not answer the question why he did not think housing policy was more important than business support policy. I'll simplify the question for Leif Nysmed so that it might be easier to answer. Are the Social Democrats in favour of or against bospar? A yes or no is enough on that question.
i-7546575806ed9b03-565	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder asks me if I'm for or against a bospar. I think it's an interesting form to look at. We have not taken a stand for or against it. But a bospar is aimed at those who have the opportunity to nest. Not all people are able to nest even at a young age. Then we have to remember that housing policy somewhere is about ensuring that people can have a good place to live that they can also afford. I think that investment support is clearly housing policy, because it gives people the opportunity to ask for a new home. However, there is one problem. We talk all the time about increasing the rent in order to get a place to live. However, it is limited to that part of the population that has secure employment and good income. There are those who have good income but do not secure employment. We have something that we call general fixed-term employment, which makes a mess of it for a lot of people. Then it doesn't matter if you've lived for the rest of your young life in order to buy a condo, because you can't even get into the bank. You can't even use the phone at the bank, someone said. I thought it was a bit funny and fun, but maybe it was just me who thought. So it is also a question of labour market policy on this issue if we are to increase the level of protection. Unfortunately, today we have a large group of young people, up to 35 years old, within Kommunal who are not even welcome into the bank. These are the people we must also think about in this context. So it is not just saying yes or no to residents and believing that housing policy has been resolved with it. Much more is needed, and more extensive issues are needed. But I'm not in any way reticent to discuss the bosparform further.
i-7546575806ed9b03-573	Madam President, I would like Sweden should be a country where every child who enters the first day through the doors of preschool knows that here it doesn't matter whether I'm poor or rich, what sex I have or what name I wear. Here I will have the same chance as everyone else to achieve my dreams. That's how an honest welfare society should work. But Sweden does not. The research agrees that the time spent in preschool plays a role in relation to future studies. It is clear that children who have attended preschool have better development in later grades compared to children who have not attended preschool. The earlier children meet learning in language and mathematics, the easier comprehensive school becomes. We know that this is the case, and that is why we also know that social democratic policy and budget are not enough. Madam President, I would like Thankfully, the Moderates won the 2006 elections and, together with the Alliance, were able to carry out a large number of reforms. A new curriculum was developed. Natural sciences and technology were introduced. The teaching assignment was clarified and focused on teacher IDs. Preschool became a form of schooling of its own, and all children had access to it from the age of three with 15 free hours a week. But in 2014, when Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister, the reforms and positive development of preschools stopped. In spring 2019, we were able to read the Swedish National Agency for Education's reports: The proportion of staff with a pre-schooler's degree decreased, and today not even 40 per cent of the employees are qualified teachers. Children's groups are also getting bigger. We are therefore moving in the opposite direction compared to the alliance years 2006– 2014. Therefore, Madam President, the Moderates propose a series of efforts to ensure that the class journey begins in the classroom. Permanent Preschool Lift, and ensure that preschool teachers' ability to develop skills is guaranteed! Introduce a new KPU for academics and professionals who want to become preschool teachers! Increase the number of places on pre-school education, and ensure that they end up in those parts of the country where the lack of qualified teachers is by far the greatest! We need to explore the possibility of first teacher services. Special skills, but also career opportunities, are also needed in preschool. Efforts to prevent children from inheriting their parents' exclusion are needed. That is why it is important that we propose 30 hours free of charge for children of parents who have no study experience and who are far removed from the labour market. In addition, special educators and special teachers need to become a natural part of preschool as well. For a good continuation of studies, we need to ensure that we have a system that guarantees a relevant handover when children leave preschool and start primary school. For this reason, the Moderates propose a survey of children's language development. Finally – that is perhaps the most important – we want every newly assigned child or child of newly arrived parents to attend compulsory language preschool from the age of three. In order for Sweden to ever become that country where every child has a chance, the Moderates demand this. Yesterday, the Moderates announced at their press conference a major investment in welfare – a long-awaited and much-needed venture. In addition to the regular budget, we propose SEK 2.1 billion for school and development. The Moderates aren't just talking about welfare; we're funding it too. That is why, Madam President, I would like to thank myself and support the Moderates' reservation No 1.
i-7546575806ed9b03-583	Madam President, I would like It has now been about a year since we last debated the field of preschool. Since then, we have all met representatives of the pre-school rebellion at least once, and many of us more times than that. After last year having heard all the parties beating their chests and talking about the importance of our preschool and then having taken note of the stories of the pre-school uprising, one could perhaps expect somewhere that we in the 2020 budget would see great clear investments in the particular field of preschool. V i got exactly the opposite. In the area of expenditure aimed at stimulating the reduction of children's groups, the government proposed a reduction. It was proposed to reduce the funding for preschool and work on reducing children's groups by nearly SEK 700 million. That is a reduction of about 15%. During 2019 I started something that I have chosen to call a preschool tour all over our country. I have already had time to visit preschools in Norrbotten, Skåne, Stockholm, Gothenburg and Uppsala. It is a tour that I intend to continue throughout my term of office to take part in the everyday life that we are debating here today, among other things. In connection with one of these visits, I took a walk on a preschool yard together with an educator. We passed a storehouse where there were a large number of two-wheelers. They were on a shelf where the children couldn't get to them. Pedagogen told me that the two - wheelers could not have been used for a long time, even though the children really loved them. Of course, the natural follow-up question was: Why do you not use the two - wheelers? Pedagogen then told us that even if the children have helmets and protections, these two-wheelers are a little risky, and if they are to be used, an adult must always be there to supervise the children. In this particular preschool it was impossible. The pedagogue went on to tell us that the terrible truth was that they did not have complete control of the children in preschool. She felt terribly bad about the fact that several times when the parents had come to pick up their children and asked where the child was, she had been told that she did not know, followed by some answer based on where the child usually is or which children the child usually hangs out with. Why the situation was like this at this particular preschool was not something she needed to think about – it was because of the size of the group of children and the number of children per teacher. This is what she said: We have a large number of children per teacher here – 7, 2. It is completely impossible to keep track, so for the safety of the children we do not bring out our two-wheelers. There are many other things in our business we would like to do, but we do not dare. It's just too dangerous. And we're not even gonna talk about the days we're short on staff. In connection with a question session here in Parliament, I asked Minister of Education Anna Ekström how the government in this time of crisis and rebellion can choose to cut down on preschool finances by nearly 700 million when preschool screams for more resources. The answer was that I blacked out the situation. Me and the Swedish Democrats are asking for a maximum of 5 children per teacher. The cut is 5.1 children per teacher, so how big a difference can it really be if we pull it down to 5.0? The Minister for Education is certainly right that a reduction of 0.1 children per teacher does not make a big difference. I think I share that view. But for a preschool where there are 7.2 children per teacher and the staff do not know where the children are, a maximum of 5 children would make a big difference. This, of course, knows the Minister for Education Anna Ekström. The Minister for Education is a wise person and a good debater, and she is passionate about Swedish education. There is no doubt about it. But the Minister of Education also knows that 5.1 is just a cut and nothing else. There are preschools with significantly fewer children than 5.1 per teacher. That is not a problem. However, in pre-schools with 6, 7, 8 children per pedagogy, a maximum of 5 children per pedagogy could be the difference between security and insecurity – or between healthy staff and burnt-out staff. Lowering the average from 5.1 to 5.0 children and setting a maximum ceiling on 5 children are two very different things. We in the Swedish Democrats believe in a maximum ceiling, and we believe in the effects such a ceiling could have. For this reason, the Swedish Democrats chose to invest 1.3 billion in the field of preschool. We chose to call it the pre-school billion, which is actually wrong because it is actually 300 million more than 1 billion. The government, as I said, is reducing the funding for preschool by 700 million. Sweden has a preschool that is so good that other countries see Swedish preschool activities as a source of inspiration and an example, where all children regardless of their unique conditions have the right to childcare. However, the educators who work every day to ensure that our children are able to receive this care do not have such a well-functioning situation. Very high workload, heavy understaffing, for many secondary jobs and very limited financial conditions for day-to-day activities are unfortunately part of the reality of preschool. This has not only led to an increase in the number of sick leave, burnt-out staff, a high turnover of staff and a decrease in the safety and continuity of children. It has gone so far that preschool staff across the country have come together in networks, such as the civil education uprising, to fight together for improved conditions and an improved working situation. We need to focus more on the staff's conditions and actively work to reduce the load, increase staffing and counteract the number of sick leave. Our preschool children should be given the best possible conditions, and the staff will play a crucial role. The staff in preschool are very similar to those in health care, for example. They love their job, they're passionate about what they do and they put children and patients in the absolute first place – usually in front of themselves. When resources are reduced, staff are working harder to prevent cuts from affecting children and patients. They turn themselves inside out in order for no one who needs care to suffer. The only thing decision-makers see is that the business continues to work despite the cuts, so they try to tighten up and streamline a little more. It often ends with sick leave, burn out or change jobs. Then you throw in new staff and start again. All parties talk about the importance of preschool. The Swedish democrats go from words to action and invest the financial resources needed to make it a reality. Unfortunately, we did not get support for our investment in a so-called pre-school billion. Unfortunately, I do not believe that we will receive support for our request to improve the working environment for our preschool staff either. What the Swedish Democrats are literally proposing – which is also my request, Madam President – is in favour of the Swedish Democrats' reservation 5 in the report: I'll take it one more time, especially to focus on and actively work to improve the work environment of preschool staff. ..................................................... As a further step to improve the situation of our educators in preschool, the Swedish Democrats also propose to abolish the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the carer. Anyone with pre-school children must recognize a daily life that is regularly lined with colds and influences. Preschools, where many children are gathered on a small surface, are known to be at risk of infection. In the same way as it is obvious that preschool does not accept that sick children participate in the activities, it should be obvious that children do not have to be in a preschool with sick educators. It should be obvious that neither children nor staff are in the business when you are ill but are at home until you are healthy. The Karen deduction as it is designed today makes it difficult to stay at home. The abolition of withdrawals for pre-school staff makes it possible to spend more time at home in order to become healthy. The benefits are several: It contributes to increased health and increased well-being and reduces possible stress among staff who otherwise feel the need to work while not being healthy. It also prevents increased spread of infection between staff and children in cases where staff are instead on sick leave in case of illness. That concludes my speech. I apologise for having gone over the time by a few seconds and, as I said, is in favour of the Swedish Democrats' reservation 5.
i-7546575806ed9b03-608	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats are here, the Moderates are here and the Left is here and the MP, KD and SD are here. In our happy team, we have the Liberals here today, and the viewers and the President are here today. Oh, it's so fun that everyone's here today! We have all, I think, heard that beginning of the day, either as adults who have been with the children in preschool or as children. Many of you have probably attended preschool in Sweden. I haven't, so I've met this beautiful song first as an adult when I've been with my children in preschool. Preschool is an extremely important part of the children's childhood, and it is an amazing thing when you see how well it can work. With my own children I have several times attended preschool and seen how they play with their friends, run into a favourite among the educators and sometimes don't want to be picked up by their father because they have so much fun. You can take that to heart. Being in a ring in the morning and being read aloud by a person who can really engage them is a fantastic experience, as well as watching them draw and create new ones. But I've also seen the opposite. Permanent substitutes that don't know the names of the children or, as we just heard, where the children are. The child's paper and creation is empty for six months because there is no time for it. Crying when you leave. Then it's with a heavy heart you go to work. You have even turned the door with your children because you have not felt that you could leave them. Madam President, I would like Preschool can be absolutely fantastic but also less good, and how good it is is very often determined by how good the staff are and how much staff there are. The fact that there are enough staff in preschool is simply crucial to how well the children are. That is why we in the Center Party want to see a new national benchmark for the number of children per trained staff. We face major challenges with, among other things, large groups of children and a lack of trained staff. Adults who leave their children but first and foremost the children themselves must be able to trust that there are adults in preschool who see them. Today, there are benchmarks for the size of children's groups. But what we in the Center Party see as a necessity is a benchmark for the number of children per trained staff. In the end, that's what's crucial. It does not help to have a children's group that is not too large if there are not enough staff to look after it. That is why we want to focus instead on the number of children per trained staff. It would also provide the opportunity to design the activities in different ways. But first of all, we want to put an end to the situation we are seeing today, where the groups of children may not be gigantic, but on the other hand there are no staff to take care of even small groups. Madam President, I would like The Center Party has been involved in introducing a professional program for preschool. The idea is also to create new opportunities for staff to read permissions via VAL. This would give Sweden more preschool educators, which could help to staff according to the new requirement. We know that preschools can lay a good foundation for the future; there is no doubt about that. As Mrs Manouchi has just said, research also shows that those who have attended preschools will have a better future and will succeed better in school. The children who would benefit most from this are the children who unfortunately have the most difficulty reaching preschool. It is also those children who are actually deliberately kept away from preschool around the country. The fact that the children who would benefit most from this effort from the welfare society are actively excluded by the welfare society, for example because their parents are not working, is not a wise attitude. Of all children in Sweden between three and five years of age, 23 000 are currently not in preschool. Foreign born children and children from low-income families are heavily over-represented in this group. That is why we in the Center Party want better outreach from preschool towards families in exclusion. We also want to extend the right to preschool. But obtaining a right without having knowledge of it does not help very much. Therefore, outreach activities are important so that vulnerable families are actually reached by the information. In addition, by offering newly arrived parents the opportunity to go to an integration preschool, where SFI and preschool are combined, they make an effort that gives children a better start and better opportunities to get a good school result in the future but also means that women come into SFI earlier and that a better incentive is created there. It therefore benefits both the children and the parents, especially the women. We want to see more hours in preschool for children with parents who are not working, Madam President. The right to preschool varies greatly depending on whether the parents are working or not. Children of parents who have support are not entitled to preschool as many hours as children whose parents work. In order to reach the most vulnerable families, the number of hours due in the long term should be increased for that group. Children in vulnerable families should of course have the same opportunity for a good start in life and the same conditions to pass school in the future, and then preschool is a good foundation. Madam President, I would like Of course, everyone in here wants to see preschool get even better. There's a lot of ideas coming up. Some of us have already heard from the previous two speakers, and I am quite sure that there will be more proposals on things that preschools can do better from everyone sitting here. But then we must also realise that there are problems with preschool resources. Consistently requiring preschool to deliver more without adding new resources is not realistic. We in the state have often been good at rolling over proposals for the municipalities without ensuring that they have the opportunity to deliver. It is time for both the government and the Riksdag to stop doing this. That is why we in the Center Party also want to review the system of maximum rates. It should be opened up and give more freedom for municipalities to decide for themselves on the level of fees. A slight increase in the maximum rate would result in a large increase in income for the municipalities from preschool. As I said, we see an opportunity to expand preschool with more pedagogy and reduced groups of children. Several court decisions have recently come to show that expenditure will increase. Now the preschools are going to start paying for diapers. It is a problem that we do not at the same time ensure that they are better able to adapt to these charges. Madam President, I would like To return to the beginning of my speech, it is wonderful to see everyone here today and to have a good debate on how to improve preschool. It is important for the Center Party that those who have the most difficulty getting into society have better access to the welfare opportunities we have and that we stop keeping those whose parents do not work outside. We want to extend the right to preschool for children with parents in exclusion and commission the municipalities to seek out those families who do not use preschool today. I would therefore like to conclude by calling for the approval of the Centre Party's Amendment No 13.
i-7546575806ed9b03-628	Madam President, I would like I agree with most of what you say in your speech, Mr Paarup-Petersen-Petersen. As you say, I think everyone in here really is passionate about preschool and has a genuine common desire to improve it. I am very pleased that you mention the ceiling for the number of children per teacher. I welcome this, and I also highlighted it in my speech. My question is therefore: how is it that the Center Party chooses to release a budget from the Social Democrats which reduces the funding for reduced groups of children and fewer children per teacher by SEK 700 million? This goes a little against what you highlighted in your speech.
i-7546575806ed9b03-630	Madam President, I would like I'd like to thank Michael Rubbestad for asking questions. As he says, it is very good if we can bring about fewer children per teacher. There is no doubt that preschool needs more money. You can always discuss what kind of extra effort to focus on – I have full respect for that. But what is the basis of preschool and we must not forget is that it is not state-funded. It's a municipal operation. We want to provide the conditions for municipalities to find new solutions for funding. I believe that we will always have a political discussion here in Parliament about who throws the most targeted contributions after various municipal areas, about what we call them, etcetera. I would like us to be able to move towards fewer targeted grants and more public money for municipalities for different areas. This is a policy that we in the Center Party are pursuing. However, I do not see that it is the individual initiative that will be the difference for preschool. Instead, give municipalities the broad conditions to control their finances! We have reformed the municipal levelling-up and have, from the Center Party's side, made broad investments in the finances of the municipalities. We have said that we will continue to give more money to the municipalities so that they can decide over their areas and how the money is to be distributed. This is the fundamental ideology of the Center Party – we believe in decentralisation. Then there is the need for additional funding for the municipalities, but we do not believe that the best solution is for the state to keep looking at new individual ways of throwing the money into targeted grants. Instead, generally invest in the finances of municipalities so that they can decide over their own activities. This is what we want, and at the same time, via changed maximum rates, give them the opportunity to find a new source of funding. That is our policy.
i-7546575806ed9b03-635	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Mr Niels, for your answer. I thought I'd jump to something completely different. In your committee motion, we can read that the Riksdag is proposed to support the motion that independent preschools should be inspected by the Swedish School Inspectorate. In Moderates' motion, we can read that the Riksdag is proposed to support the Swedish School Inspectorate's taking over supervision of all preschools, that is, also the independent ones. It's exactly the same motion. As I was careful to highlight during our preparation in committee, the Swedish Democrats also support this. This means that we have a majority because the Liberals also have a wording. Why is it that the Center Party does not take this opportunity and follow up on this, when we have a clear majority and agree that the School Inspectorate should assume responsibility for the independent preschools as well?
i-7546575806ed9b03-638	Madam President, I would like Of course, we are always willing to get our policies through. Now this year we have made a budget with the government, which of course we support. We are, want to be and will continue to be a credible partner. This means joining forces with those with whom a budget has been drawn up on the occasion. With regard to concrete solutions, such as the intervention of the Swedish School Inspectorate, I am sure that we can continue to have discussions in Parliament on how to resolve this forward. We have written things together in committee in the past. When you have processes in the Riksdag, however, it is important that you lift things in time, when we deal with the issues, so that there is the opportunity to write things together. It cannot be done when things are already done, which happened on this occasion if I remember correctly. Then maybe we can solve situations in the future if we get proper control of the processes from all parties.
i-7546575806ed9b03-640	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Left Party's reservation No 4. Although we support all our reservations, I would like for time-winning consent only to it. I would also like to start by saying that we all agree here that Swedish preschool is unique. We also agree that Swedish preschools are of high quality and that the system that we have built up around the Swedish preschool in a very positive way differs from the systems in large parts of the world. At the same time, however, we have to admit that there are problems. All children should be able to develop with the best conditions and based on their needs. A good preschool is at least as important for children's development as a good school. The right to a good preschool for all children is a matter of course for the Left Party. Good childcare is also a prerequisite for women and men to be able to work on equal terms. In preschool, however, staff are more at risk than other occupational groups in the labour market, for example, of stress-related diseases. It risks ultimately affecting the development of children. Children have the right to a good business, and the staff have the right to a good working environment. Many preschool workers are not feeling well today, and many testify to their pressured situation. Large groups of children and too few colleagues lead to a stressed working environment. Based on the information provided by Försäkringskassan, the Teachers' Association has reported that preschool staff are 63 per cent more likely to be on sick leave than the labour market average. In terms of mental illness, which includes stress-related diagnoses, the risk of a person working in preschool is 81 per cent higher than that of the rest of the labour market. This is serious from an occupational health and safety perspective and is also at risk of affecting children's development. The size of children's groups affects both children and staff. The Swedish National Agency for Education has guidelines for children's group size, but they are only a recommendation. It has to change. Today the recommendation is 6 – 12 children per group aged 1 – 3 years and 9 – 15 children per group aged 4 – 5 years. The Swedish National Agency for Education's guidelines are based on combined international and national research and show the benefits of smaller groups of children, including that it leads to a better environment with lower noise levels and benefits children's learning. The Left Party believes that these guidelines are good, but since there is no regulation of children's group sizes, in many places the Swedish National Agency for Education's guidelines are exceeded. The government should therefore come back with proposals to address these problems and introduce a regulation of the size of children's groups in relation to the number of educators rather than just a recommendation. Many preschool educators also testify to excessive noise levels. The sound level is so high that the hearing of the educators is damaged. Hearing loss and tinnitus are common. In addition, it is a stress factor for both children and staff. A quote from the Swedish Work Environment Agency says: 中 It refers to a research project from Umeå where 17 preschools were included, which showed that the sound level in preschool during a working day is over 70 decibels on average, which is very tiring and can create stress reactions. At the same time, it is a varied sound picture with sudden peaks in the form of screams, sludges, overturned chairs and noisy toys, which is no wonder in a preschool. But it is also a question of having as large groups of children as we have today. It is not uncommon for staff to suffer from sound fatigue and stress. As has been said, the size of children's groups is part of the problem of high volume noise and many preschools are not dimensioned for the number of children who go there. It is simply too many children in relation to the size of the room. The Left Party believes that it is important that children's groups are not larger than the premises are dimensioned for and that the premises should be adapted in different ways to the activities carried out there. Madam President, I would like Many people are working on what we call uncomfortable working hours, that is, evenings, weekends and nights. Today, parents have no right to childcare at these times. Instead, it is up to each municipality to decide whether to offer this. This means that many parents do not have the opportunity to work evenings, weekends, and nights. This particularly affects single parents, many of whom are women. Many of them are forced to change working hours or rely on, for example, relatives and friends to help with babysitting – all to make everyday life go together. We cannot do that in a modern welfare society. The right to childcare on inconvenient working hours is an important part of the Left Party's feminist policy. The Left Party believes that it is necessary to create better conditions for all parents to combine parenthood with work. Children also need security and continuity. They can obtain this if there is a permanent solution with professional childcare, carried out by trained staff with knowledge and experience. Childcare therefore needs to be adapted to the needs that exist. We believe that the government should investigate the possibility of legislating on pre-school activities on inconvenient working hours. Madam President, I would like In the budget that we debated late in 2019, we could see that the government made cuts to preschool. This was something the Left Party opposed. We provided more resources to preschool than all other parties in the Swedish Parliament. Municipality by municipality is currently cutting down in preschool and school. That is why we in the Left Party have today demanded that the government give an additional 10 billion to Sweden's municipalities and regions, and some of these billions will go precisely to reducing the size of children's groups, to invest in more staff and to provide resources to the Swedish school and preschool. To all the heroes and heroines who work in preschool, to those who are trade unionists and to those who are involved in the preschool rebellion, I would say that our demand for SEK 10 billion is not something that we will release. We will continue to make these demands and stand by them. For us, it is more important for you to have the resources to manage to maintain a high quality in our preschool in the future than to be comfortable in the political debate.
i-7546575806ed9b03-656	Madam President, I would like I would first of all like to support the Liberals' reserve No 9 in the report by the Committee on Education and Training on a national pre-school inspection. Unlike previous speakers, I would like to focus on precisely what I consider to be the most important task of the state. Today it is the municipalities that are the principals of preschools, and it is the municipalities that decide and approve individual preschools that are run by alternative authorities. We will safeguard that freedom of choice. It is highly appreciated by many parents. In many municipalities, up to 30 or 40 per cent of children go to alternative preschools. What the state is supposed to do, but as the Liberals say it is not doing enough, is to monitor the quality of pre-school education. In general, preschool has a good reputation in the debate on education policy. Most people talk warmly about preschool and that Sweden stands strong when it comes to preschool activities and childcare in particular. When the Swedish School Inspectorate reviews the quality, educational work, structure, governance, development and children's opportunities to develop, be stimulated and challenged linked to curricula and national goals, we unfortunately discover that much of the shortcomings found in Swedish preschool somewhat reflect what we also see in primary and secondary schools. These are quality deficiencies, differences in quality and differences in ambition, and they can be related to socio-economic differences and segregation factors. It is therefore remarkable that the state has done no more to systematically monitor the quality of pre-school education. We can stand here and talk about everything we want and would like to do with Swedish preschools, but we cannot get away from the fact that it is ultimately the individual actors and the 290 municipalities that are the heads of Swedish preschools. It is their duty to ensure that you invest in preschool. It is ultimately their duty to ensure that people with the right skills are employed and to increase the proportion of pre-school teachers. It is also stated in the School Inspectorate's reports that the most important success factors are the availability of highly trained staff, i.e. the proportion of preschool teachers, and the size of children's groups. These are the two most important factors for a successful preschool where there is no need for improvement efforts. Liberals have been following the School Inspectorate since its creation ten years ago. Their ability and capacity we have lifted up. They don't just need more resources. They also need to expand their capabilities. Today, primary school and upper secondary school are the priorities. It does not give priority to important activities such as adult education or, for that matter, preschool, which we are debating today. However, a long-term study was conducted in 2015, 2016 and 2017. It was a big evaluation. More than 100 municipalities participated in that review. There, too, these differences are being identified. There is no equivalence. There is no equivalence in quality and access to educational staff and preschools across the country. Unfortunately, what we see when it comes to educational segregation and ambition in primary school is already visible in preschool operations, and that is serious. In addition, I can mention, Madam President, that the studies carried out by the School Inspectorate show that many of the principals, those who lead and govern the conditions and conditions of preschools, do not even have an eye on their own quality and their own activities. How can they, if they are not in control, contribute to developing quality and investing in smaller children's groups and increasing the proportion of preschool teachers? The samples and impact that the Swedish School Inspectorate has nevertheless focused too much, I think, on individual preschools or on how municipalities examine individual preschools. Our conclusion – finally – is that the state should establish a state pre-school inspection, take over the permit procedure and take over the quality responsibility fully but also strengthen the School Inspectorate so that we do not get this temporary and twitchy review where it can take three to five years before a municipal preschool or an individual preschool is put under any guise whatsoever.
i-7546575806ed9b03-665	Madam President, I would like You get in a bit of a jam when Niels has been up and not singing for us but almost. Madam President, I would like Every child has the right to a good start in life. It is about security, care and knowing that they feel seen. So it should be no matter who you are, where you live or where you come from. Preschool is an important part of the education system. Preschools should be compensatory and help to level out differences. It is crucial for achieving gender equality in the labour market but also for enabling lifelong learning and growth. So today we are debating the UbU8 report. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal as a whole to be approved in the report and for all motions to be rejected. I have been standing in this House debating preschool for almost five years. Every time, I've done it with a sense of pride. I feel proud of Swedish preschool, because I know what it means for the development of society and for the children who get to take part in the fantastic activity that it actually is. During these years I have talked to a lot of parents. I've met a lot of kids in their daily lives. I have listened to their needs, and I have listened to their concerns. I have also met preschool teachers and nannys who every day go to their job with a commitment and a willingness to do a good job. There is a strong feeling that their job makes a difference. Their creativity and knowledge have also been expressed in confirmations from children who have taken part in preschool's offerings and opportunities. The other day, my daughter and I passed her old preschool. She shone up and talked about their studio and their games, and she reminded me of her friends and educators who she was very close to. Now in preschool class she has more opportunities to take on the knowledge she has gained in preschool. She broke the reading code there. She began to learn how time and space worked. She learned about other scientific discoveries. She has to repeat this, and it brings her to new knowledge and insights where she is today. Madam President, I would like I am, as I said, proud in many ways of the Swedish preschool and the efforts and reforms that we have implemented since the Social Democratic Government took office in 2014. Having said that, I would also like to say that I am not satisfied. It is an ongoing work, which must never stop, to improve and provide conditions for all children and preschools in Sweden. During my years as an educational politician, I have also had the privilege of listening to a great many good children's nurses. One of them, Åsa Hedlund, is a representative of Kommunal. She has stressed each time the importance of having more educated child care workers and colleagues at her side. We have in common at local but also nationally raised the role of child nurses in preschool. We have raised the issue that we must aim to upgrade and raise the status of childcare education so that we can secure the supply of skills throughout our country. Here the heads have a very important job to do. I have also met representatives from the Teacher Association. Two of them in particular, Pia Rizell and Sandra Axelsson, have raised questions about the work environment, research and how we need to continue working for a more equal preschool and skills development efforts to make the profession more attractive and sustainable. We have met representatives of the preschool rebellion who, like the trade unions, have raised the need to continue to develop and invest in preschool and its staff in order to give each child the tools to make their life journey and reach their full potential through lifelong learning. In these meetings it becomes clear that we have much to be proud of but also that we need to do a lot more. I would like to express my thanks to all of you who contribute constructively and genuinely with your experience to enable us to take further steps towards the goal of a better and more high-quality preschool. Madam President, I would like The role of preschool has been strengthened in recent years. It is positive that many steps have been taken in the right direction. Family policy and the view that preschool is a childcare institution have been abandoned. The status of preschool has been strengthened by its being part of the education system. It's not called kindergarten. It's called preschool, because it's a learning institution since 1998. It is positive that parents of more than 90 percent of all pre-school children actively choose preschool. It is an important recognition in times when we discuss different types of reports and the role of preschool in the development and ability of children to get through school. The report deals with a great many motions. Several claims point out that preschool has an important role for children who never or rarely meet the Swedish language at home. In the revised curriculum, the Swedish language has been strengthened by emphasising how to help stimulate language development. The Parliament has decided unanimously to provide funds to enable a preschool with language development. The new state grant will stimulate the language development of new arrivals. Through the grant, municipalities or principals can make efforts to develop their personnel skills, and that is very good. The Government also intends to set up an investigation to investigate how legislation on the right to a compulsory language preschool from the age of three with at least 15 hours a week can be introduced within the framework of preschool. Madam President, I would like Furthermore, questions about the quality of preschools are raised. In many preschools the development is in the right direction, but in others the staff are on their knees. Preschools face challenges linked to inequality, staff shortages and large children's litters. These are challenges that policy needs to prioritise and solve. Research and the profession suggest that preschool quality is closely linked to clear and accessible pedagogical leadership. That's why we have worked to ensure that preschool managers have the same professional title as managers in other school forms and the same right to attend the State Vice-Chancellor's education. Since 2019 they have also been referred to as principals and not as pre-school managers. Madam President, I would like The size of children's groups is crucial for improving the quality and effectiveness of pre-school education. Since the entry into office of the Social Democratic Government, we have invested every year in reducing the size of children's groups. At present, this investment is in excess of 1 billion. National benchmarks for the size of child groups scrapped by the Alliance Government have been reintroduced. It has had an effect," says the Swedish National Agency for Education's assessments. Although many in the debate sometimes point out that it has made no difference, we can nevertheless be pleased that the benchmarks and state subsidies have influenced developments in the right direction in order to reduce the size of children's groups. Of course, more needs to be done. We're not happy. We know that children who have attended a high-quality preschool are better prepared for school, have better language skills and demonstrate greater social competence compared to children who have not participated in preschool activities. This applies especially to children who come from tough growing-up conditions and a tough socio-economic background. In order to meet these children and their needs, it is necessary to continue to implement efforts both nationally and locally at the main level by structuring the work and giving time for collegial learning, giving the educators time to be educators and providing the opportunity for good care and good care. With this, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to talk about perhaps the most important thing in the education system and for our children – preschool.
i-7546575806ed9b03-685	Madam President, I would like In his speech, the honourable Member points out that we need to prioritise preschool, that there are major challenges that we should work to solve and that staff are on their knees. We were told that the children will make the journey of their lives in preschool. We also heard about the importance of the size of children's groups and that the government has invested annually in reducing the size of children's groups. The honourable Member also mentions that he is not satisfied. I understand that because the latest proposal makes a reduction of SEK 700 million in the budget for the part specifically used to reduce the size of children's groups. I can't make this go together. What the honourable Member says sounds good, but you are making quite different investments in your budget. How does this work?
i-7546575806ed9b03-688	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. I want to continue on Nils' tralling: And everyone is here! But SD just got here. Welcome, the Swedish Democrats, into the preschool debate! It is simply not true, as you say, that we are cutting EUR 700 million in the effort to reduce the size of children's groups. We are investing 1.23 billion in this area, and we have done so in all the years we have ruled with the Green Party with the support of other parties. That is not true, and I have to say that it is remarkable that the Swedish Democrats and Michael Rubbestad are standing in this Chamber with incorrect information. I do not want to use the word, but I do not want you to think a little bit about where you have been these past few years when you have cut down on this area time and again! We have invested time and again, while you have chosen not to support that proposal. You have not once for many years in this House had an effort to reduce the size of children's groups. But today Michael Rubbestad is here, and he is welcome.
i-7546575806ed9b03-692	Madam President, I would like As the honourable Member knows, I have been new to Parliament since the 2018 elections. Before that, I was one of the parents who picked up and left my children in preschool and took care of snot and diapers and all that it could be. Thank you very much for your welcome! Maybe I can't count; I don't know. But when you look at the budget under 1:7, you see that the appropriations for 2019 were 4 billion plus and the appropriations for 2020 are 3 billion plus. It's reduced by 692 million, to be exact. That is clearly stated in the budget. Unfortunately, I do not have the document with me, but it is in plain text under Action 1:7. I hope I can get some clarification on that, because that would be desirable. The honourable Member began in his speech by calling for the rejection of all motions. What is so terrible about my motion, which says that we should actively focus on and work to improve the working environment of preschool staff, that the honourable Member must actively demand that it be rejected and then press the red button when we vote on it this afternoon?
i-7546575806ed9b03-696	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Michael Rubbestad! I repeat what I said: we are spending 1.23 billion on reducing the size of children's groups, and that has had an effect. More needs to be done, however, and there Michael Rubbestad is once again welcome to do what you should do to make things better. Michael Rubbestad asked a very relevant question: why do I reject your motions? It is because we do not share the starting points of how to conduct a good policy. We do not share values, nor do we share values in this area. You are pursuing a policy that goes against research. You go against research and proven experience in several areas of preschool and have extremely conservative ideas that I don't think belong in a Welfare Sweden or in a Swedish preschool. You are against preschool helping to form and guide our children in becoming democratic and free individuals who are aware of their rights and who learn values about how to accept and respect each other's differences. This is something that is very frightening for the Swedish Democrats, and that is why there is every reason for me never to support anything that you propose in this area. However, I know what my party is doing and we are doing: we are investing in reducing the size of children's groups. We're investing in pre-coach training. We'll go for the nanny training. We are making efforts for the work environment and for the principals to have the resources they need to be able to make adequate and important contributions to the work environment and to those who work in preschool, in order to be able to do what is good for the children in preschool. We are already making the efforts that Michael Rubbestad mentioned, and we will continue to develop Swedish preschool – without the Swedish Democrats.
i-7546575806ed9b03-702	Madam President, I would like Preschool is the place where many children spend the vast majority of their waking hours. In families with full-time parents, the child may have more than eight hours of working hours, which is what is prescribed by law for us adults, since the travel time between preschool and the job must be added. Therefore, it is obvious that preschools must maintain a very good quality. That's where we leave the dearest thing we have. Preschools must be shaped according to the child's needs. It is therefore worrying that the size of children's groups is higher than the National Agency for Education's guidelines, especially for the smallest children. The benchmark of up to six to twelve children in the groups of young children – children up to three years – is not set at random but based on research. There's a lot of people who've been into it before. This is linked to the fact that for children the connection is very important for future mental and physical health. A small child is unable to tie a close relationship with too many other people. A child deprived of the opportunity to build a firm, confident, secure and close relationship with a limited number of adults is more likely to experience insecurity later in life. Research also shows a connection with increased concentration difficulties later in life. That is why we Christian Democrats want to legislate that groups of young children should not be allowed to be larger than twelve children. Now this and our other proposals are not new for this year, but they are things that we have maintained in the past. That is why our requests in the field of pre-school education are simplified procedures and are now only taken up as a separate opinion. But it is no less important to talk about the issue. For example, there must be no room for the principals, whether public or private, to trifle with the figures. SVT reported some time ago about a named municipality where no less than 54 new departments had been started at their preschools. When one looked at this it seemed quite impressive for a medium-sized Swedish city with 54 new departments. In fact, however, only seven of these departments were located in two newly opened preschools. The remaining 47 departments had been created by dividing groups within the school. It seems that on paper you can create new smaller groups to make it look better in the statistics. There was no more physical space, and there was no more preschool teachers. The number of children per full-time job is largely constant. Another common way of trixing with statistics is to have small groups of children during a shorter part of the day. But we have to have statistics that show the real relationship. Madam President, I would like Many of us in the committee have repeatedly met representatives of the pre-school uprising. There was a workshop a few months ago. Then, in an almost painful approach, they gave a description of the distress of preschool staff to be sufficient for the large groups of children. They do not have time to devote themselves to the silent child who withdraws or reaches the child who has abandoned him or her before being too agitated to prevent an outbreak, or to take time with the crying child, or for something as important as going aside and preparing the educational work. Instead, it is often that work that is given priority when it is short on staff. Preschool teachers and child care workers are the professions with the highest rates of illness. It says something about preschool as a work environment. It is also something that others have been into. What we may forget is that it is about people who can register for sick leave. The children in preschool cannot register for sick leave. They are also more sensitive than we adults are. My youngest grandson is approaching two and a half years. His dad's a nanny. He knows the preschool environment inside and out. The father, in agreement with the mother, has agreed to be at home with the child full-time – for nearly two and a half years, apart from the 15 hours a week that the child is in preschool. The family has seen it as the best solution because the situation is difficult in many preschools. How could the father, this longtime child nurser in educational activities, conscientiously give up a sensitive little child in an overcrowded preschool department and then go to work in another overcrowded preschool department where he feels that he cannot give the children what they need? That dilemma is recognised by many parents, and that is why we Christian Democrats realise that we need to give parents more opportunity to choose for themselves how to solve the family puzzle. Madam President, I would like There must be a palette in each municipality with different variants of public and individual preschools, educational care, parental cooperatives and childcare allowance. This increases the possibility that the family will find a form suitable for that particular family and child. Children are different. Some feel good in the creative educational environment that exists at a well-functioning preschool. Other children need a little longer time with more peace and quiet in their home environment, like old-time family day care. Unfortunately, this is something that exists in far too few municipalities in the country today. Madam President, I would like Let us rise above the swamp of ideological rhetoric and see to it what is best for the individual child. In most cases, the person who can read the child best is the child's parents. Lock us up and listen to them. More than 70% of parents today feel that the Christian Democrats have the best policies for children and families. Preschools need to be given the conditions to be what they are supposed to be. Municipalities are unable to give priority to the resource enhancement that would be needed to seriously reduce children's groups to reasonable levels. Some speakers have raised the issue of a ceiling on the number of children per teacher. It's not wrong. But we Christian Democrats choose to start from the children's perspective. Our entry point is to legislate on the maximum size of groups of young children, which I have already touched upon. Madam President, I would like Most parents are prepared to pay a little more to get a better quality preschool. We therefore think it would be reasonable to increase the amount of the maximum rate so that there is more money in the system and in the municipalities. We believe that the municipalities should spend as much money as the state. Three different parties will contribute to making resource enhancement to preschool. The money goes directly into preschool to improve for the children and to enable more new departments to be opened and the number of children to be sparse so that each child has more time with adults and fewer adults who are changing and so that preschool staff have better working conditions. With more resources you can create a better working environment. As a result, you can also increase your attractiveness so that more people can go to preschool jobs and fewer people can go away from them.
i-5C8fUNyfqMYHSUC548Cfo3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Gudrun Brunegård, for your speech! The speech sparked a lot of thoughts in me. Standing in Parliament's Chamber and saying that the municipalities are not able to cope with their mission makes me think about what signals they send. Gudrun Brunegård says we should put aside the ideological talk. But I wonder what the Christian Democrats want to do with politics as a tool. Why do we want to work within the political framework? There are a variety of things you can do, should do and continue to do in the area. Preschools deserve more effort, and children deserve more effort. Those who work in preschool deserve more effort to make everything all right. Here the government has reintroduced the benchmarks for the size of children's groups. This is something that the Kris t Democrats took away during the alliance government. I'm curious how Gudrun Brunegård thinks about this. We have invested over 1 billion to reduce the size of children's groups. It has not been a priority for the Christian Democrats. We have invested in pre-school education, and we have increased the training places. We have strengthened the educational leadership, and we have invested to stimulate more night ice and day care in the evenings so that it can be reconciled with a working life at such times. How does Gudrun Brunegård intend to use the tools of politics from here?
i-7546575806ed9b03-721	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roza Güclü Hedin, for allowing us to discuss this matter! Preschool is incredibly important. I was convinced that the vast majority of children spend a lot of time there. Several others have previously considered the basic knowledge and values that you take with you for the rest of your life. That's why it's very important that we have a high-quality preschool. I said the municipalities aren't always capable of prioritizing preschool. Just look at the harsh reality. After all, it is even the case that the Social Democratic-led government sees itself compelled to have a lot of targeted state subsidies. You don't think the municipalities are capable of prioritising, but you have to write them on their noses. In addition, municipalities must sit down and apply for state grants for a specific, narrow purpose. It is perhaps so time-consuming that municipalities have to employ staff to apply for these targeted state grants. It is better to find a way to give municipalities confidence and to give them the money with public funding. We're adding 30 billion more to welfare. There the municipalities themselves can prioritise – a municipality may see that the municipality needs to spend more money on starting more preschool departments. It is not possible at a glance to reduce the large groups of children, especially in view of the shortage of preschool teachers and child-careers today. We need time to build this.
i-7546575806ed9b03-726	Madam President, I would like I'd say it's better to write on your nose than to pull 140 billion out of welfare. We are also investing 35 billion in order to make reinforcements, as Gudrun Brunegård actually mentioned in his answer. Something that is very important, and as Gudrun Brunegård also mentioned, is the question of who knows best. I am allergic to that question – parents are, of course, the ones who know best how their children are and what is important and good for them. The research says, however, that preschool is best for children to be able to take on board and start their life journey with lifelong learning. Preschools are by far the best at providing children with opportunities for the future. Here the Christian Democrats are the party that stands out quite a lot, I would say. You are in favour of child care allowance – in my world this is about re-locking women in the home. We also know that most of those who have used the custody allowance in the past are women who come from other countries. This will not benefit their opportunities in the labour market. This goes completely against the integration policy that we are pursuing. The Christian Democrats are for educational care. These can sometimes be good – absolutely. There is also an investigation in this area. But there are also signs that the educational care carried out in the country as an alternative – it is usually parents who do this – is not of the quality that we all seek. It is not trained staff who are responsible for the educational care, and most often there are very many children in these groups. I would appreciate an answer to that, Madam President. Which way are we going? Will the Christian Democrats work to get preschool into family policy and become part of social policy in the future?
i-7546575806ed9b03-732	Madam President, I would like Now the seconds go very fast, so I don't have time to develop everything. Preschool is very important. That's why we're spending a number of millions on this-- I don't have the numbers in my head. We even mean that preschool is so important – especially for groups at risk of exclusion – that we talk about combining SFI with a child receiving some kind of care even while the mother is formally on maternity leave when the child is very small. In this way, I think we are showing in practice that we value pre-school education. However, we believe, as I said, that parents have the ability to see their child's best interests. Most parents want to work, and they want to work early. Then preschool should be there and be of the best quality. But I can judge that at least one of my children would not have suited in a preschool as it stands today because of the stress and the situation. A family day care home was perfect for her. In my own family, as Roza Güclü Hedin heard, a father has chosen to be home. Roza Güclü Hedin's picture of the fact that we want to lock women at home at the stove belongs to the 19th century. Today, we believe that parents are competent to make wise decisions that are good for them and for their children. It may not give that father many pension points when he is at home with the child during those two and a half years, but it is good for the child. Overall, it is definitely better for all parties from a societal perspective. However, preschool is good, and it will develop.
i-7546575806ed9b03-737	Madam President, I would like Every week 513 000 children attend preschool. The vast majority of parents who leave their children in preschool leave them in a safe environment where they work actively with the new curriculum so that each child will develop based on his or her interests and potential. Preschool is important for children's development. There is a clear link between how long children have been in preschool and results in, for example, the PISA study when they are 15 years old. Preschools are also a prerequisite for me and many other parents to be able to participate actively in working life. Preschool has been an incredibly important reform for equality between women and men. What we know has a particularly positive effect on children in preschool is the possibility of reading aloud and talking about what the children are reading about. The Green Party is passionate about reading. I am particularly pleased that we in the new government, with the support of the Center Party and the Liberals, have also extended our focus on Reading Lift in preschool. The reading lift is an initiative that gives preschool teachers the opportunity to lead their colleagues and to develop together in terms of how to work with reading and conversations around texts with preschool children. In addition, during the previous year we have made sure to fill many bookshelves out in the country's preschools with books. Madam President, I would like Preschool is for most people an amazing place. At the same time, we know that those who are given responsibility for a preschool group with too many children or too few colleagues cannot give the children what they are entitled to. The Green Party has been a driving force for re-establishing the guidelines on the size of children's groups, as there is much research to show that for large groups of children there are negative consequences, especially for children of the lower ages. It is simply difficult for the little child with too many social relationships to keep track of. It is not only the child's own relationship with the educator or friends but also the children's mutual relationships that need to be kept in order. Research has been the foundation when the Swedish National Agency for Education has developed its guidelines. For groups with one- to three-year-olds, the recommendation is six to twelve children per group. For four- and five-year-olds, the recommendation is nine to fifteen children per group. We know that in some places, unfortunately, there are considerably larger groups of children than that. At the same time, it is very gratifying that the guidelines, combined with the government's government contribution, have led to developments that are moving in the right direction. It is not correct, as the Swedish Democrats have said, that the last budget would have meant a cut in the state subsidy. The item referred to is a merger of a number of different initiatives, one of which is not extended and one is not indexed. So it is not about the size of children's groups in preschool. Madam President, I would like I would like to remind you that preschool is an activity for which the municipalities are responsible, and the municipalities provide almost all the funding. It is therefore important to recall the general strengthening of the municipalities. We contribute SEK 5 billion in the budget to municipalities and regions, and preschool, which is a large and important part of the municipalities, will probably take a large part of the cake. We were talking about the size of the children's groups. In fact, the size of the groups of children is also something that pre-school staff, whom we in the committee have met together, including in connection with the pre-school uprising, have highlighted as one of the important factors of staff stress. It is very, very worrying to see the high health rates among child care workers and preschool teachers. They are significantly higher than among other teacher categories in the survey carried out by the Federation of Teachers based t on statistics from Försäkringskassan. When the sickness rate is high, there will be even fewer colleagues. Hopefully you can fill up with substitutes. But, again, this is something that contributes to increased stress and risks leading to a negative spiral where more people choose to quit and fewer choose to go to the profession. Here we need to take steps to ensure that the profession is attractive. One of the measures that the Green Party has taken and which we have also got into the January agreement is the professional programme for teachers. Please note that this is a professional programme for teachers we are talking about, and it also includes, of course, preschool teachers. Madam President, I would like Several speakers have highlighted the challenges of the fact that pre-school education today is not equal, especially that access to pre-school education is not equal. That was one of the reasons why the Green Party went to elections to get an equality grant for preschools too, where special efforts would be directed to preschools in vulnerable areas. We have not come that far, but we have taken action within the framework of the January agreement in this area. There is now an investigator who will look at how more children who do not speak Swedish at home will have access to preschool. It is something that I think is incredibly important for these children's conditions in life. In addition, we are investigating how we can ensure that children who take part in educational care receive a high-quality activity. I must say that I am very concerned when I hear the representatives of the Christian Democrats. She dreams her way back to a time when we had a custody allowance that de facto, regardless of whether you wanted it to be so or not, led to low-skilled women who had immigrated to Sweden being away from the labour market for a long time. And the children in these families did not get the same chance to meet the Swedish language, to develop social relations and to learn together in accordance with the preschool curriculum. We also know, unfortunately, that there are challenges in many of the activities under the umbrella concept of educational care. I'm very glad we're looking at it. Madam President, I would like I am one of those hundreds of thousands of parents who leave their children for preschool every morning. Often the children go there with a smile. Half the summer they stood in the hall with diapers and rubber boots and were on their way to preschool. And you don't get happier as a parent than knowing that your children are doing well. I also see you working in preschool fighting sometimes, how your arms aren't enough to hold all the children who right now – that's the way it is with children – need a hug. I see how you wipe tears, snot, muddy overalls and hands full of paint that would have been on paper and how time is not always enough. I want to thank you for the efforts you are making for my children and all other children in Sweden to get a safe preschool period, develop and get the best conditions in life. Thank you! You're building the future right now.
i-7546575806ed9b03-756	Madam President, I would like Today, Members of Parliament have a chance to vote in favour of the continuation of Ringhals 1 and 2. To continue using Ringhals 1 and 2 could provide a lot of electricity at a low cost and with very low climate emissions. In the energy policy debate, there is often talk of security of electricity supply, reasonable costs and low emissions. Often politicians return to the need to reduce and, in the long term, simply get away from fossil energy. Ringhals 1 and 2 can contribute in all ways with a lot of electricity, low cost and small emissions and contribute to fossil energy being suppressed both in Sweden and abroad. There are several reasons, Madam President, for giving Vattenfall a mandate to continue working with Ringhals 1 and Ringhals 2. The first reason is the climate. Continued operation of Ringhals 1 and 2 would bring major environmental benefits. The Institute of Economic Development has shown in a report that using these reactors for a few years can avoid at least 8 million tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions. Already on the same day Ringhals 2 stopped producing electricity, on 30 December, the production of fossil electricity increased in Northern Europe. In Swedish this means that Ringhals 2 was shut down and that emissions increased. Last time I checked the emissions they were 45 grams for each kilowatt hour produced in Sweden, in Germany 441 grams and in Poland 645 grams for each kilowatt hour produced. I understand that there may be a lot of figures, but that means that for every kilowatt hour produced, emissions are ten times higher in Germany and 15 times higher in Poland than they are in Sweden. And our electricity system in Sweden is connected to the electricity systems in Germany and Poland. This means that Swedish environmentally sound electricity could remove bad German and bad Polish electricity, and this applies to both nuclear power and wind power. But if nuclear power is shut down prematurely in Sweden, there will be more emissions in our neighbouring countries than it would have been otherwise, and it is the climate that loses out on it. The second reason for continuing to use Ringhals 1 and 2 is about fossil freedom. In Sweden we have unfortunately had a meaningless discussion where renewables were more important than fossil-free, and all of us who protect the climate naturally focus on fossil freedom. Last time I checked, over 90 percent of Swedish electricity production was fossil-free, less than 50 percent in Germany and as little as 20 percent in Poland. Sweden currently has the EU's best and cleanest electricity system with a combination of fossil-free power teams such as nuclear, hydropower and wind power. With continued operation of Ringhals 1 and 2, fossil-free electricity could continue to be very useful in the rest of Europe, not least for the climate. Vattenfall has also stated in its own life cycle analysis for all the types of power they use – solar power, wind power, hydro power and nuclear power – that they have generally low climate emissions, and at least have nuclear power. Security of electricity supply for people and businesses is a third reason to continue using Ringhals 1 and 2. In the coming decades, electricity needs in Sweden will increase radically in order to switch transport and industry from fossil fuels to electricity. Then Ringhals 1 and 2 can play a role. We are talking about a lot of electricity. Ringhals 1 produces under an hour as much electricity as I use during my lifetime. Ringhals 2 produced as much electricity as the total consumption in Gothenburg, Sweden's second city. Last year there was an electric crisis in Skåne and Stockholm. The government put Sweden in a really bad situation. The electricity system was not sufficient due to a number of factors, including a lack of local production and a lack of transmission. It ended with the government being forced to launch emergency packages there and then. Let us do what we can not to put ourselves in the same position again. We should look at several energy policy solutions, one of which is about continuing to use Ringhal's ability to safely provide a lot of electricity throughout the year. In the past, we have been able to rely on the Social Democrats. They have protected the Swedish industry. But now they seem to be choosing the way to phase out nuclear power rather than to contribute to the security of electricity supply. I am genuinely surprised, Madam President. The Green Party is known to be opposed to nuclear power. The party also has an impressive and sometimes inspiring commitment to the climate. There is now a chance to make a decision in the Riksdag about using Ringhals 1 and 2 for a while with great climate benefit. This will test the environmental party's climate commitment, but you choose to phase out nuclear power rather than save the climate. It is distressing, Madam President. The Moderates want Vattenfall to be assigned a mission to pursue Ringhals 1 and 2 if possible. In practical terms, a rapid analysis of technology, safety and economics should be carried out in order to further develop these reactors. Both Ringhals 1 and 2 have safety systems that became a requirement after the accident in Japan, i.e. what is called independent hard cooling. But of course a dialogue with the Radiation Safety Authority (SSM) is needed to see whether these systems meet the requirements or whether additional investments are required. An analysis should reasonably take into account the human resources needs as well as other investment and fuel needs. Options should be considered. If the owners do not want to push them forward, see if others can be interested. In addition, the market for power purchasing agreements, PPA, should be probed. Larger customers could enter into contracts with Ringhals or Vattenfall for the supply of electricity at pre-determined prices. This type of contract, PPA, is often used in wind power and could secure revenue for example to operate Ringhals 1 for another 10 or 15 years. Continued operation of Ringhals 1 and Ringhals 2 will require a certain amount of work. But that's not impossible. Vattenfall has shown in its own report on Ringhals 1, which has been classified, that it is both possible and economically beneficial to push Ringhals 1 forward for quite a long time. The continued operation of these reactors is therefore both possible and desirable for safety and for the climate. Madam President, I would like Finally, anyone who is serious about securing electricity supply and saving the climate is voting in favour of reservation 13. I'm in favour of it.
i-7546575806ed9b03-776	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 13 in the report. Many important social functions are currently carried out within the framework of state-owned companies and often operate in a competitive market. The Swedish democrats have a pragmatic position on this. For us it is not an ideological goal to sell out the state's holdings in these companies. However, there shall be a strategic value and interest in the companies in which the State remains as owner and exercises active ownership. With Vattenfall, which is one of the state's wholly owned companies, there are good opportunities for the owner to achieve energy policy goals, and we believe that there is a strategic interest and that one plays an important role in the Swedish energy supply. Our view has always been that Vattenfall should shift its focus from expansion abroad to the domestic market, with Sweden as its starting point. When we debated state companies in this House a little less than a year ago, the Swedish Democrats had a proposal to give Vattenfall the task of running Ringhals 1 and 2 further in the Ownership Directives. Unfortunately, all the parties then voted against this proposal. It is therefore very gratifying that the Moderates and Christian Democrats have come up with better thoughts after leaving the Energy Agreement and that, together with the Liberals, they now choose to support the proposals of the Swedish Democrats. Madam President, I would like As late as 2012, Vattenfall submitted an application to the Radiation Safety Authority to replace existing reactors with new ones. This would be part of the process of analysing the conditions for possible investments in new reactors, and the agency began to work on developing regulations for the requirements for a new reactor. During the last parliamentary term, however, the Government ordered Vattenfall to stop the investigation of these conditions, even though it was only a process at the investigation stage. The Swedish democrats see this as deeply problematic and believe that parallels can be drawn to the so-called thought ban, which meant that no one could draw up design drawings, calculate costs, order equipment or take other such preparatory measures for the construction of a nuclear reactor within the country. We therefore believe that the Riksdag should announce to the Government that Vattenfall should not be subject to any restrictions to apply, investigate or prepare for the construction of new nuclear power in Sweden. In connection with this, the government also increased the impact tax, which only burdened nuclear power – which shortly thereafter led to Vattenfall's announcement of an early closure of Ringhals 1 and 2. And just before the new decade could be dialed, the closure of Ringhals 2 began. This takes place in parallel with Sweden being in a situation of lack of capacity. We are moving into a situation of national power shortages, while the use of electricity seems to increase record-breakingly as a result of desirable social development with electrification. The transport sector is electrifying at an ever-faster pace, there are plans to produce fossil-free steel and electricity use is increasing in industry to achieve fossil freedom. If we allow the continued decommissioning of Swedish nuclear power, it will go down in history as one of the biggest political mistakes in modern times. If Sweden is to take on the task of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, more fossil-free electricity is needed, not less. We therefore think that there is every reason to consider whether the state should use its own energy company to reduce the Swedish supply security in the short term, which risks destroying the conditions for the energy-intensive industry to operate in Sweden. This could have far greater socio-economic consequences than a limited additional cost for the continued operation of the reactors. At the same time, a large part of Europe's energy supply remains fossil-based, in many cases with coal-fired power plants. Swedish nuclear power is in contrast to this clean and stable, even in comparison with other fossil-based alternatives available. To continue to operate these reactors would be a major effort for the climate and would provide the opportunity to push away fossil-based power generation that exists in our neighbouring countries, either in the form of electricity exports or through use in the Swedish industry. For example, if the corresponding amount of carbon power were to be suppressed, this would mean that emissions reductions equivalent to all car traffic in Sweden could be achieved for a full year. But apparently it is more important for some to close down nuclear power plants than to save the climate and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We therefore propose in the report that the state, through its ownership in Vattenfall, look more closely at the country's energy supply and give the company ownership directives to stop the early closure of the Ringhals nuclear reactors. This, Madam President, is a policy that is good for Sweden's households and industry, but above all for the climate.
i-7546575806ed9b03-791	Madam President, I would like I'll talk about the state's long-term ownership and the state's ownership in general and small. First of all, I would like to say that the Center Party is, of course, behind our reservations, and I call for the approval of reservation 1 on the long-term ownership of the state and reservation 3 on the regional responsibility of the state. The Swedish economy is characterised by a variety of forms of enterprise and different types of ownership. The state is one owner among many. The basic structure of Swedish industry is a mixed economy, and it has served the country well. However, it is in the nature of the matter that when the state owns, at the same time as it makes laws and sets the rules of the game, the state must be careful and discreet. The Center Party has a pragmatic rather than an ideological approach to state ownership. The Center Party considers that it is not really a core task for the state to own and operate businesses, but in some cases it may be justified. Here is a built-in problem where you have two roles, i.e. you sit on two chairs, as a legislator and as a company owner. We therefore believe that, when the conditions exist, the state should test its ownership of those state companies that do not have a specific social mission, or are strategically or security-politically important. However, since the state is a major shareholder and will continue to be so for the foreseeable future, it is important that the owner operates its companies in a long-term professional, value-creating and sustainable manner. Once again, it is important to point out that several of the companies also have important social assignments, where the focus is not only economics but where there are other benefits for society. It is important here that the social gains are clearly accounted for and that they govern the companies' operations. In the extensive climate change of the economy under way, state-owned companies will be active in implementing commitments regarding Agenda 2030. We know that companies are happy to accept this challenge as they see both climate and business benefits in this. The Center Party also considers that the security policy aspects must be carefully considered in the state ownership portfolio. Our basic view is that the state as owner should ask itself whether the market itself can solve the task of a state company. Then this will be tested. But the Center Party does not see government sales of companies, or acquisitions, from an ideological point of view, rather a pragmatic one. As well as we cannot exclude sales, we cannot completely close the door to acquisitions or to the creation of new companies, not with the current economy and technological development. There must be a pragmatic approach. Everything must be tested commercially and with the social and market benefits of artefacts. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, for a long time, we have seen the decline in service and job creation in rural areas, and here the state bears a great responsibility. I think that we can use state-owned companies to a greater extent to supplement weaker markets. The state has great opportunities to conduct regional development policy through forward-looking governance through its companies. For example, SBAB Bank, a wholly-owned public limited liability company that competes with other banks. Not long ago, SBAB decided in practice to leave corporate customers north of Dalälven. In other words, SBAB does not want customers in rural and small towns. Now it is Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö and major colleges that apply. Then one can actually ask why the State should own SBAB, when the company only exists in functioning markets. Another example I'm considering is the operations of Saminvest, which was founded in 2016 but where 2017 served as the first year of operation in the real sense. How has Saminvest developed his role as a government-owned company to develop business across the country? I ask the question, because it is not easy to see in annual reports and the like. I would like to learn more about this. I would like to see Mr Saminvest come to the committee and report on his activities. Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that the state is a forerunner in terms of gender equality in the boards and management of the companies. This has emerged through active work by the owner. In May 2019, the government's corporate portfolio was listed as having 47 per cent women and 53 per cent men on the board of directors. This compares with the listed companies, which had 34% women and 66% men on their boards. The proportion of women who are Chairman of the Board of Directors in the wholly or partly owned companies of the state has increased from 45 per cent to 54 per cent. Madam President, I would like State ownership of companies should be phased out in the case of companies that do not have a specific social mission. Ownership in Telia may result in the government gaining undesired influence in the media market. Therefore, the Riksdag has issued an announcement to the Government to review how the state can liquidate its ownership in the long term. In the world in which we live, it is important that this is done without endangering socially important infrastructure owned and managed by Telia, in this case, for example systems for total defence. It goes without saying to me that national security takes precedence over everything else. Full control of social critical infrastructure is central. We have been very clear that we will never be behind a divestment unless 100% security is guaranteed.
i-7546575806ed9b03-803	Madam President, I would like Vattenfall is one of the state-owned companies. There are different views on how to deal with Ringhals 1 and 2, but there are indisputably a number of experts who have shown that it is both possible and desirable to push Ringhals 1 and 2 further. An example of this is the own internal report from Vattenfall, where you have looked at Ringhals 1. Another example that has looked at the benefits of climate change is the life cycle analyses that have been carried out by Vattenfall itself and where you have looked at different types of energy. We can look at the production mix in Sweden. It varies over time, but when I last looked, the emissions in Sweden were 45 grams of carbon dioxide for each kilowatt hour produced, 441 grams in Germany and 645 grams in Poland. So they were ten times higher in Germany and fifteen times higher in Poland. The Center Party has a known position. D e is against nuclear power. It is also a pragmatically set-up party where you are used to making up both right and left to achieve results in Swedish politics. If we now have nuclear power, although the Center Party may normally not like this over time, and we need a lot of electricity to switch industry and transport but also and not least a worrying climate issue, one might think that a reasonable position and perception for the Center Party should be to do something good for Sweden and for the climate and to contribute for climate reasons to the use of Ringhals 1 and 2 for a while. How does the honourable Member view this?
i-DVWDKk9MboFmusbqBDsAqz	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Helmered, for the question! Nuclear power is something that the Center Party has lived with, been familiar with and discussed for a long time. We have historically made a shift from an ideological approach to a pragmatic approach. We have been prepared to agree to agreements, as we did in 2015. We have an approach today in which we say that anyone who wants to build nuclear power is happy to do so. It's no problem. It should be remembered that we have five or six reactors running today. At the same time, we want to focus and focus on two things. One is long-term governance, not replacing an agreement after three or three and a half years and reversing the conditions for gigantic values. The second is that there is an enormous development on the renewables that we want to see and where we have extremely good conditions in this country. I have written in debate articles that I understand that there may be and will be nuclear power in other places, but with the energy mix we have in Sweden and the basic conditions for water, forests and various renewable energies we will be able to do this. I do not think that this discussion should really be conducted around Vattenfall as a state-owned company, but rather about the Swedish Power Networks and the distribution networks owned by the municipalities. The discussion should be about the distribution of electricity rather than about an individual company and rather than pointing to individual energy producers and reactors. That is not where we are supposed to be, but we are going to discuss the structure and overallness of the issue.
i-7546575806ed9b03-809	Madam President, I would like What makes this case a bit unique is that Vattenfall is a state-owned company. It is no wonder, then, that it becomes a political issue and that the owners, through parliament and government, to some extent have views on this. For example, the owner directives for Vattenfall have been decided by the Riksdag. For me, the focus is on fossil freedom. I very much welcome and admire the development that has taken place with regard to much of the renewable in, not least, the sun and wind. But for me it is precisely about the combination and that we continue to benefit from hydroelectric power, but also from nuclear power and cogeneration. Madam President, I would like I raised a number of figures: 45 grams of carbon dioxide for each kilowatt hour produced in Sweden – 10 times as much in Germany and 15 times as much in Poland. The reason for this is precisely the unique combination that we have in Sweden of nuclear power and various forms of renewable energy. We now see that we have a unique opportunity to provide a safe supply in Sweden but also that electricity can be exported. Experts generally agree that it can provide a climate benefit. The Institute of Economic Development points out that at least 8 million tonnes of emissions can be saved. Only today, the Economic Council presented a new report on the debate page of Dagens Nyheter. It points to the risks of the closure of Ringhals 1 and 2 and that this could lead, as they put it, to a radical increase in emissions. They consider that there is a need to analyse whether this decision should be backed up for climate reasons. I think that is a rather wise attitude. I therefore wonder what the Center Party is prepared to do to actually choose the climate over decommissioned nuclear power.
i-7546575806ed9b03-815	Madam President, I would like We choose the climate. We see, of course, that there will be an energy mix with nuclear power past 2040, perhaps with more offshore wind turbines and with the forest as a growth factor. I do not see that this is the huge problem. In addition, for Ringhals 1 and 2, someone has to explain where the subsidy money is to be taken – alternative e t is to raise electricity prices very strongly. This response must be given. In Finland, this is also ten years behind schedule and has cost many billions. It's not as simple as just pressing a button. Vattenfall itself says: we do not see any need for new nuclear power today. But we are following developments very closely, and there may be changes. Vattenfall has taken business decisions based on a broad agreement in this House. The government and the parties have worked together to create exactly what we are discussing today, namely long-term conditions for state-owned companies. Then I do not think that it should be overturned by an individual decision concerning an individual energy plant. It is rather the case that I welcome a discussion on distribution, new types of energy and so on and that the nuclear power plants that live on after 2040 are run professionally and commercially in a safe and secure manner.
i-7546575806ed9b03-819	Madam President, I would like We are discussing the Committee on Economic Affairs' report 4 on state enterprises. But you can't believe it's about government companies when you listen to the two opening speakers. Today, the state is the owner of 46 companies with a focus on basic industry and energy, and we have heard a lot about energy. Most companies are profit-making, and about half have specifically decided community assignments. In this context, I would like to stress how important it is for the government to pursue an offensive state enterprise policy with high ambitions that favours social development and not the return that counts only in SEK. State ownership should be based on Swedish conditions but also follow the changes on the world market and in the outside world. Speaking of the outside world, I guess all the climate challenges on the retina are daily. Not doing everything to make travelers take the train instead of flying will be a bit like dropping by the lowest hanging fruits. In my view, a well-functioning and well-developed rail transport system that puts passengers at the centre is of central importance for achieving a sustainable transport system for the whole country. For such a focus, SJ must be given the conditions to prioritise societal benefit before short-term profit interests. I have a special opinion in which I develop the Left Party's view on the governance of SJ. I would like to state with determination that the requirement for return is hampering sustainable travel in Sweden. I would like to express my view that the state should, to a greater extent than is currently the case, use its ownership of state-owned companies to serve societal purposes. I believe that there are several reasons why the state should be a strong owner or even have a monopoly in areas of social importance. State ownership is needed as a counterweight to speculation capitalism and short-term profit pursuit, and the demands for profitability in state companies should not take precedence over the benefits of society. In my opinion, state-owned companies should instead be actively used to build Sweden more secure, more equal and ecologically sustainable, to increase competitiveness and not least to even out unfair differences between the city and the countryside. The hand on the heart of colleagues, will the market or capitalism fix so that villages drained at 90 percent of the population can cope with the service or so that public transport begins to walk again? No, if Sweden is to be able to stick together and create conditions for development throughout the country, there must be equal basic conditions no matter where you live. The state-owned companies are jointly owned by the citizens and therefore, in my opinion, have a special responsibility for people throughout the country to have equal access to services, healthcare and other essential functions of society. I therefore believe that the ownership directives for several of the state-owned companies need to be developed on the basis that the societal benefit should always be the focus of the ownership strategy, while the companies should be economically efficient. In this context, I would like to point out that the opportunities for further processing and increased growth in Swedish industry are great. Both the forestry, mining and steel industries have the potential to increase their processing rate, which in turn would increase the number of jobs in the country, reduce transport and increase export revenues. This is something that can be promoted through active governance of state-owned companies and through increased research and collaboration with the rest of the business community. But trust in the state institutions is crucial to create legitimacy for the democratic process. I would therefore like to emphasise that it is of particular importance that state-owned companies act exemplaryly and with good transparency. However, it has been shown that several executive directors of the state companies are on the boards of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and its organisations. I think it is very strange that these organisations have campaigned extensively against the content of government policy. Especially paradoxical is this relationship when the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has expressed its active opposition to state-owned companies themselves. According to a report from the trade union ST, the state companies spend huge amounts of money on fees to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. I would like to point out that it is directly inappropriate for business associations to receive a sour cream file for state-owned companies in this way. Community-owned enterprises should be neutral and should therefore not be members of such associations. Madam President, I would like Sveaskog AB is Sweden's largest forest owner and manages more than four million hectares of land. But I and the Left Party would not mind that the state, via a single company, owned even more forest and land where sustainability in farming was above yield in economic terms. That is not to say that the forest as a renewable resource would not be used efficiently and deliver sustainable products to both houses and homes, but of course also biomass for other purposes. I look with concern at how the company harvests young stocks that are at the top of the growth after a thinning. However, the difference between our view and how the company is managed today by the owner does not only apply to the example of the effects of everything on young populations. For example, the land sales programme is allowed to continue, despite the departure from the spirit of strengthening the chances of survival of individual forest owners and farmers in rural areas. I could stand here until long into the evening and crumble arguments for the sale going on today. Active participation in and governance of what is going on in the company would definitely strengthen opportunities for rural survival, more than is being done today by selling forest properties to rich people who simply see investment in forests as a good location. Madam President, I would like As I stated earlier in debates on state-owned companies, I believe that state ownership needs to be expanded and developed in order for democratic decisions to be able to steer social development. And speaking of democratic decisions, I very much hope that the reservation of the Swedish Democrats that some have mentioned, No 13, will not be heard in this House – not only because I and the Left Party do not like nuclear power, but also because of all the investments in renewables that are taking us into the green future. As regards Vattenfall AB in particular, I would like to say that the company's profitability requirements should be more in tune with the environmental objectives set by the Riksdag. With regard to Vattenfall's hydropower production and the company's mission and objectives, I would like to point out that, with relatively small efforts, it is possible to combine strong energy production with biodiversity and environmental objectives. One example where these two interests could be better combined is Letsi power station, owned by Vattenfall and located between Jokkmokk and Vuollerim. In order to use a higher drop height and thus increase the effect, Vattenfall has previously chosen to divert the water through a tunnel in the mountain. A regrettable result of this measure is the emergence of one of the longest drained rivers in Europe. It's 17 kilometers long. I believe, however, that there is a good chance of restoring a few per cent of the total water flow above ground with relatively little means, thus revitalising the riverbed. Then biodiversity and fish stocks could be restored, which would benefit the local community. I therefore believe that the government should ensure that Vattenfall investigates the investment costs of returning an ecologically sustainable flow of water to the dry part of the Lilla Lule River. Madam President, I would like There is a great deal to say about state ownership and how the governance of these companies could contribute to more jobs and development throughout the country, but time for debate is limited. I therefore choose to apply for a reservation 4. Of course, I support all our reservations, but, as is customary, I only support one.
i-7546575806ed9b03-839	Madam President, I would like I was going to ask Birger Lahti how he and the Left Party want to increase state ownership, but I am not going to do that. We've discussed it before. On the other hand, I would like to ask a question similar to the one I asked earlier, namely on Vattenfall and its handling. We know that Birger Lahti as a colleague is a person who is involved in both climate and industrial conditions – we could hear that in his speech – and my picture is that he is also usually a person who wants to see results and a practical attitude in this. Birger Lahti talks about the Left Party's nuclear resistance, for which I do not share but of course respect. But if we now have nuclear energy – and with the waste, waste management and systems – there is somehow both the advantages and disadvantages of nuclear power there to deal with. If one is practical, then one should really try to use the nuclear power we have as much as possible, in order to get a secure supply of electricity and be able to push away various forms of fossil energy, such as coal. Birger Lahti spoke in his speech about, for example, the possibilities of forests, and I share that view. For me and the Moderates, however, the attitude is that we need both nuclear power and renewables. We are happy to talk about energy efficiency, about bioenergy and about wind and hydropower, but for me there is no contradiction between it and nuclear power. Instead, we should look at the needs we have for the transformation of society – housing, transport and energy. We should look at how we can meet the needs of population growth and economic growth with environmentally sound electricity, which can come from both wind and nuclear power. Then it comes down to the fact that there are climate reasons for nuclear power. This shows Vattenfall's own analyses and reports from Konjunkturinstitutet and Konjunkturrådet, to name a few examples. Shouldn't the reasonable opinion of the Left Party actually be to vote to use Ringhals 1 and 2 – for climate reasons?
i-QrfDXyznWzp11ucGuHwjo	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Lars Helmered! There was a reason why the Left Party was not part of the energy settlement. However, your party, Lars Hjälmered, was included, and you yourself were one of the negotiators for your party. It was three and a half years ago, and it was then known that Vattenfall wanted to close down the reactors. I agree that the settlement in itself provides the opportunity, just as you describe, to use both. I also don't like all parts of all types of energy, even if we talk about renewables – it also has its drawbacks – and I think you should use the energy that remains. But after the deal was concluded, Vattenfall has said that they now know that there is a deal that lasts over time and that they know what is happening. They were happy with the deal. I myself have been in contact with Vattenfall quite often, and they say that there are no financial incentives to drive the reactors further. It also turns out that we will fix this without Ringhals 1 and 2. That there are challenges that come a little more at the tip I agree, but I see it as very strange if the Moderates want to start socializing Vattenfall's ownership of these two reactors. I respect your position, Lars Helmered, and I agree that there are several reactors that will be tough for a long time to come. I have accepted that; I understand that they are needed. But trying to bring these very reactors back to life by force seems farfetched to me.
i-7546575806ed9b03-847	Madam President, I would like In these political days there are sometimes alliances between Moderates and Left Partyists, and they can apply both to the Employment Service and perhaps to an amending budget – what do I know? I would be happy to discuss with Birger Lahti some aspects of energy policy. The Economic Council released a report today. Among other things, that report has looked at the question of what is economically and socially viable. There is a rather interesting reasoning that points out that you can make an economic analysis of Ringhals or Vattenfall and come to a conclusion but that it is not the same as that it is socially profitable. It therefore raises the question that, on the contrary, it may be profitable for Sweden and Europe to continue to operate Ringhals 1 and 2, for economic and climate reasons. I think it's quite interesting. The owners of Ringhals have been clear that they may not fully share the Moderates' view on this issue, but then Vattenfall has its own report where they have looked at Ringhals 1 and what would be required. Although the report has a few years on its neck, it should be acknowledged, but they have looked at what would be required to push Ringhals 1 forward to 2020, 2026 or 2036. The bottom line is that Ringhals 1 with small investments can last both 50 and 60 years of operation, which would mean 2026 and 2036 respectively. Finally, the question of the climate comes to the fore, and this does not only concern Sweden's needs. It is quite right that we in Sweden last year had a historically large production and export of electricity, but that does not prevent us from exporting even more and pushing fossil energy away on the northern European market. That is where you land, and I still think that a state-owned company should be able to have an opinion. That's when it comes back to choosing the path and actually saying: Let's do a standalone analysis, look at continued operation and do something good for the climate. There, too, the Left Party could jump on.
i-7546575806ed9b03-851	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars, for this duel, if I may call it a duel. I agree that, when you look at the figures, it does not feel good to have coal-fired power stations across Europe while we are shutting down. After all, we have a common market for prices, and the calculations are there today when we have a common market. It will be a little strange for me, because if Vattenfall saw that they will be able to sell this electricity for a certain amount of money, they would also have an economic calculation that gave an urge to push this forward – but that calculation does not exist. I'm not usually the one who lifts the market, but in this case I actually trust Vattenfall's estimate that it's unprofitable to drive the reactors further. As far as emissions are concerned, however, I agree that it does not feel good for someone else to burn fossils while we close. Nevertheless, I think we are a good player in the market at European level. However, I would like to ask Lars Helmered a question. We think we have a good consensus in the Committee on Economic Affairs that our industry and our industries, because we are an export-dependent country, must have long-term rules of play. Why, then, do the Moderates, after three and a half years, choose to drop out of a deal that industry did the wave for and that made the industry invest billions? It hasn't happened much. There are some things that have changed, but you knew that Vattenfall would close these works when you made the deal. It's okay to invest in new ones, but I'd like to discuss this 180-degree turn.
i-7546575806ed9b03-854	Madam President, I would like The Left Party has a clear view of new nuclear power, while at the same time trying to have a high tailings in climate policy. Now we are facing a situation where we are approaching a national power shortage in Sweden. We can see that the demand for electricity will increase as a result of many initiatives to achieve fossil freedom. At the moment, there are great opportunities to push away even more fossil-based power production down on the continent. What we are asking then, Madam President, is why it is clearly more important for the Left Party to shut down nuclear power than to save the climate.
i-7546575806ed9b03-856	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, for your analysis of the Left Party's attitude towards nuclear power, if I may put it that way. As I have said several times in this House, there is a reason why the Left Party was not part of the energy settlement. It has to do with a congressional decision that may not have exactly been in line with half the management's view of nuclear power at that time. Today, you are beginning to turn to a political direction towards a force team whose owners themselves say that it is not economically justifiable to pursue the works. I do not think that those who have invested and are planning to invest billions in renewable energy would find it awesome to suddenly change direction and by political means force drive reactors whose owners say it is not defensible. I agree that nuclear power is better in terms of emissions than coal power in Poland or Germany. But I do not think it would be fair to use political means to enforce it, while at the same time sending out signals to the renewable industry to invest billions.
i-7546575806ed9b03-859	Madam President, I would like A distinction must also be made between what is economically viable and what is socially viable. At the moment, the company can earn more money by chasing subsidies that exist both in Sweden and in other countries, which means that priority is given to building these power teams rather than investing in the current facilities that it has. Here there is somewhere a political responsibility to demand. It is a company wholly owned by the state, and the state should then be able to use it as a tool within the framework of Swedish energy policy. If we are serious about saving the climate, there is the opportunity here to suppress major emissions that occur when coal or natural gas are fired, which will result. These are existing reactors that already exist today. Ringhals 2 has closed, but Ringhals 1 produces further. Here is the opportunity to ensure that it continues to produce until the technical lifetime expires, with very small means and efforts, which pushes away emissions that more or less correspond to all car traffic in Sweden annually. If anything, it should be climate policy for real – to really be able to take advantage of the values that have been built up by investing in these facilities since before. In the spring, the Committee on Economic Affairs dealt with an initiative to examine the conditions for this and see if it could be possible. Even then, the Left Party was not interested in looking at how it could affect the climate and what would have to be done. Even then, they voted against. After all, the question remains, Madam President, why it is clearly so much more important for the Left Party to shut down nuclear power than to save the climate.
i-CMBhpXviSa8haqcgvCKdmo	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, for the debate extension! No, if it were about, as Mrs Bäckström Johansson describes it, using small means to operate the Ringhals reactor, Vattenfall would look at it for itself. There are no brakes from the owner the other way, either, that you should not push it further. In fact, I trust that the owner himself has the skills that are needed instead of us politicians here saying: You are wrong, you can push it forward with small means. There are no political decisions taken that they would not be able to push it further. Nor is there any political decision that they would not be able to build new ones. I cannot accuse the Swedish Democrats of what the energy deal looked like, because you are not in it. But the signals that came out of that deal are clear: if they would like to invest in this, they are free to do so. So it is not by political means that it is closed either. In fact, I cannot agree that it would save the climate to push on a reactor by force when the owner says it is not sustainable.
i-7546575806ed9b03-865	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 13. We Christian Democrats think it is important to review public activities and how they are justified over time. The Swedish state currently owns 46 companies, and we, especially Members of Parliament, should consider whether all these activities are really suitable for the state to own. The task of the State should be to define the framework and rules applicable to business and businesses. The task should not be to own and operate companies. Our starting point is therefore that the state should reduce or phase out its corporate ownership, especially when such changes lead to better functioning markets or a more efficient public service. In our opinion, the government should therefore act to phase out state ownership of companies that do not have a specific social mission that is difficult to manage in other ways or is important from a strategic and security policy point of view. I am thinking mainly of companies such as the most well-owned bank SBAB, Telia and the airline Government Annika Strandhäll(S). However, I would like to emphasise that all sales of government property should of course be made in business and at the best possible price for taxpayers. Madam President, I would like Some state-owned companies are at risk of breaching the Competition Act, while at the same time increasing the State's influence on commercial markets. It is a development that runs counter to the views of the Christian Democrats on state ownership. In recent years, public authorities have also taken major steps in the open market by participating in procurements of goods and services. There I am calling on all our fellow party members in municipalities and regions who think they are doing fantastically good activities but do not have the idea that they can actually turn their backs on existing private actors who operate in exactly the same area. Here, we Christian Democrats believe that it may be interesting to have a transparent review of the activities of state-owned companies in the form of internal developments that extend outwards and are taking place in competition with other actors. In this respect, we believe that all authorities should also review which activities are currently competing with private companies. We Christian Democrats may not think that all state-owned companies should be owned by the state, but what is owned by the state should not, in any case, compete with private businesses. Madam President, I would like I would now like to devote my time to the company that has been debated here during the day, namely Vattenfall. It is no secret that last year we tried to get a transparent quick investigation to see if Ringhals 1 and 2, which is in Vattenfall's portfolio, could be continued and what it would mean for Sweden both from an economic perspective and from a safety perspective, but also what it would mean for Sweden's electricity supply. The Christian Democrats believe that it is a major mistake to lay down a large part, almost 10%, of our electricity production prematurely. We will need more electricity, not less e, in the future if we are to meet the climate targets. The report after report points to increased electricity generation as a key to achieving the necessary transition in the automotive and industrial sectors. The need for electricity is expected to increase by approximately 60% over the next 25 years. Then we need all fossil-free production. There are good reasons for continued operation. It is responsible from a climate perspective, and it also creates a more robust electricity supply year-round in contrast to the alternatives. Ringhals and other Swedish nuclear power have laid the foundations for the EU's cleanest electricity system. As we have heard here before, the Institute of Economic Development warns that emissions will increase by 8 million tonnes as a result of Vattenfall's decision. This is about 15 percent of Sweden's total emissions in 2018. When clean planned power is scrapped here, space is left for our neighbors' dirty fossil power generation. Madam President, I would like Production must be reliable. Swedish power networks report that Sweden is now in structural deficit at peak load times as reactors are closed down. Planable power is needed and cannot be replaced by weather-dependent force in winter when it does not blow. Instead, we are increasing our dependence on foreign dirty planned power. Instead, we should see the opportunity and contribute more to the phasing-out. The conditions are different today than when Vattenfall made the decision. The harmful effect tax is gone, prices are higher and the impact of production on the climate has become clearer. To the owner, the reactors generated billion-dollar profits in 2018. Most of the evidence suggests that the reactors are competitive. The price per kilowatt hour is low. The 2016 report, which has now reached public opinion, states that the investment needs are very low, not least as regards Ringhals 1. Beyond the strict business-economy perspective, however, there is also a greater socio-economic interest. The need for a functioning and environmentally friendly electricity supply must weigh heavily in this context. It is surprising, but the government's action on this issue shows that it lets the environmentally colored nuclear energy policy take precedence over the climate. We believe that the government should act by giving Vattenfall ownership directives to stop the premature decommissioning of the Ringhals nuclear reactors.
i-7546575806ed9b03-880	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating state enterprises. In my speech, I will focus on important pieces of the puzzle on how to solve the climate challenges and to strengthen Swedish competitiveness. In this puzzle, the state-owned company Vattenfall has an important function. Sweden's electricity production is an example internationally. Our mix of water, nuclear and wind power does not in principle produce climate gas emissions in electricity generation. Sweden's pure electricity generation is the main reason why the Swedish climate footprint is significantly smaller than the population of other developed countries. The challenge for Sweden is how industry, transport and other important sectors will free themselves from the fossil fuels on which they currently depend. Everything suggests that a comprehensive electrification will be an important part of the solution. The projections differ slightly, but the use of electricity in Sweden appears to increase from the current 140 terawatt hours per year to around 200 terawatt hours in 2050. This increase corresponds approximately to the annual production of nuclear power. When Vattenfall 2015 decided to close Ringhals 1 and 2 it was unprofitable to operate the two reactors. Nuclear power was subject to heavy excise duty and electricity prices were low. There and then none of the company's reactors were profitable. Sweden's other five nuclear power plants could also have been closed with the same argumentation. From Vattenfall's perspective, the decision in 2015 was commercially correct, but since then many things have changed. Today it is a good deal to produce electricity in nuclear power. We can conclude that the value of production at Ringhals 1 and 2 in 2018 was as much as SEK 6 billion. We can also note that the two reactors produced fossil-free and planned electricity equivalent to 10 per cent of Swedish consumption. But the value of society is not just economic. Driving the Ringhals reactors further facilitates an already difficult electricity supply situation in southern Sweden. The electricity from nuclear power is also fossil-free and thus has an almost non-existent climate impact. Sweden has today also a large electricity export that makes a significant climate benefit. The electricity produced in Ringhals 1 and 2 displaces CO2 emissions in the Northern European energy system equivalent to 10 – 20 per cent of Sweden's total emissions, depending on the gas and coal mix. If the reactors are closed, Swedish electricity exports will decrease and emissions in other countries will increase. This applies no matter how much we expand wind power. If we close clean power generation, we'll throw away the possibility of closing dirty power plants. Much more fossil-free electricity generation is needed in Europe and existing production needs to be maintained so that it can continue to produce. Very good reasons are needed to shut down fossil-free electricity production in a situation where it is needed more than never before. The pattern is also the same all over the world. When nuclear power is shut down, it is replaced by fossil fuels, mainly fossil gas, diluted with weather-dependent production to a greater or lesser extent. Liberals do not claim that there is no investment need in Ringhals 1 and 2. And of course, Sweden will continue to have strong and, in principle, world-leading safety work in the field of nuclear power. However, there are many indications that it is possible to continue to operate the reactors far beyond the government's starting point. Nuclear power has an important function in the power system. When important sectors of society are electrified and electricity demand increases, the availability of planned electricity generation becomes even more important for Swedish competitiveness and to address climate challenges in a real way. That is why the Liberals are defending Swedish nuclear power, and I therefore call for reservation 13.
i-7546575806ed9b03-890	Madam President, I would like Today, we are dealing with the 2018 annual report of state-owned companies and hence also the NU4 report, although the unattended listener may be led to believe that this is a general policy energy debate. I support the committee's proposal to add the letter from the government to the record and to reject all motions and reservations. The state-owned companies are an important part of the Swedish business community. They are in many ways essential to our whole society. They have been created on different occasions and for different reasons, but the companies' activities and community assignments justify, in the vast majority of cases, continued state ownership. We Social Democrats have as our starting point to be pragmatic about state companies. We must continually evaluate with the common good in mind. Old ideological dogmas must not govern the effects of state ownership. In the state-owned companies, consolidated net sales increased by 9.3 per cent in 2018 compared to 2017 and had a total turnover of over SEK 350 billion. It is gratifying that state-owned companies are both economically successful and at the forefront of sustainable entrepreneurship. Of course, it is also gratifying that the government understands that sustainable business is a business strategic issue. It is excellent that the government has ensured that all government boards will also make decisions on strategic goals for sustainable business. With regard to sustainable entrepreneurship, it is gratifying that CO2 emissions from the government portfolio have decreased by 4 per cent since last year, although the rate of reduction needs to increase further. It is also gratifying that the construction of the first pilot plant of carbon dioxide-free steel began in 2018, within the framework of SSAB's, LKAB's and Vattenfall's collaboration called Hybrid. The ambition is to be able to produce fossil-free steel in 2035. If it becomes a reality, Sweden's carbon dioxide emissions can be reduced by 10% and Finland by 7%. It's good for Swedish industry, and it's good for the climate. It is equally gratifying that the report has been developed. There is a summary of the global goals set out in Agenda 2030. It is a summary of what the various state-owned companies have identified as the most important issues. For example, SBAB introduced green mortgages in 2018. It's good for the mortgage holders, and it's good for the climate. Sustainable business, however, is not just about climate. Gender equality is a given for a feminist party like the Social Democrats. It is also an important part of sustainable enterprise. It is therefore gratifying to see good results in terms of the equal representation of state-owned companies in leading roles. The Social Democratic-led government has worked from day one to ensure that there should be a balanced gender balance in the state companies. It is also clear in the government's ownership policy from 2017 that the issue is important. The proportion of women chairmen in state-owned companies is currently over 50%, compared with the stock exchange companies' average of 10%. The proportion of female CEOs in state-owned companies is 39 per cent. It's light years better than the stock exchange companies. Gender equality, however, is not a sacrifice. Research shows that companies made up of people with a variety of backgrounds are more successful and more profitable. Genderly balanced boards are simply a win-win. At the same time, I would like to point out that not everything is gold and green forests. In 2018, seven work-related fatal accidents occurred in state-owned companies. The state must take priority and take responsibility also in the field of health and safety at work. State-owned companies are often and must be forerunners in the work environment. It is therefore totally unacceptable for seven people to die. The systematic work environment management must be taken seriously in state-owned companies. And you do. Yet it must be developed. We know from the past that small things that are not dealt with together can lead to disaster. But no person in Sweden should have to die at work. Madam President, I would like In the company portfolio there are 46 wholly owned and partly owned companies. The majority of them operate on a commercial basis and operate in competitive markets. Some of them have specifically decided community missions. The state companies operate throughout our country. The importance of it should not and must not be underestimated. Almi Invest and Saminvest improve the availability of capital throughout our elongated country. Sveaskog operates in 170 of the country's municipalities. Special properties, which specialize in security issues, have customers all over the country. And Postnord secures postal delivery throughout the country. Finally, I would like to mention Systembolaget, which has at least one store in each municipality. It is right, important and necessary for state companies to ensure service throughout the country. In short, the state companies must be present from Kiruna in the north to Ystad in the south. Madam President, I would like It is no news that we Social Democrats believe that state companies should be managed actively and professionally, and they do. However, active ownership should not be confused with the state acting operationally in the form of the government. Some motions in this report highlight a desire for the government to be more detailed. However, there is much evidence that current governance is prudent and balanced. While I am in the middle of difficult governance, I have noted that the Moderates and the Christian Democrats have changed their approach to state ownership. Instead of having confidence in Vattenfall's leadership, the party leaders have today suggested that corporate management cannot make proper calculations. In today's debate they have also joined the Swedish Democrats' attempts to force Vattenfall, through political decisions, to push on Ringhals 1 and start Ringhals 2. This is despite the fact that Vattenfall not a year ago and not two years ago, but five years ago, decided to close the two reactors. It was a decision that was made on a purely commercial basis. That is what we want to consider, five to twelve, through political decisions and despite the fact that, in a debate article today, Vattenfall says that it is impossible, because it has not invested in these reactors in recent years. The closure of the reactors is also a safety issue. Since 2016, Ringhals 2 has been operated with exemptions from applicable safety requirements. During inspections rust has been found in the bottom sheet of the reactor closure. The truth is, then, that if nuclear power is to be continued, it must be updated. Then the kilowatt price will be significantly higher than today. This will require either government subsidies or an increase in the price of electricity. It will therefore be important for me to ask the question: are the Moderates, for example, prepared to grant state subsidies to nuclear power? In that case, they are happy to tell you what in the welfare they want to cut down. Is it the resources for the police or the care they want to take money from? Or is this just a political game where you sometimes have rhetoric that mixes the real problem we have with electricity transmission with the issue of our energy production? The truth is that the only way to solve the problem of electricity transmission through nuclear power is to build nuclear reactors in the middle of cities. In short, I wonder if it is Moderates' position that a rusty reactor with exemptions from safety requirements and cracks in the facade should be reopened. The energy issue is far too important to be lost in something that I regard as political bickering. Unfortunately, the departure of the Moderates from the Energy Agreement means that energy policy has become more short-sighted again. It is bad for state companies, it is bad for competitiveness and it is bad for our economy. It's bad, it's bad, it's bad. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats have a pragmatic approach to state ownership. It is not an end in itself that the state owns companies. However, when it serves a purpose, we Social Democrats will not work for rejection for ideological reasons. This applies, for example, to decided social assignments, to the companies making a market more well-functioning or to the companies being a good investment for the Swedish people. I cannot help noticing that in a referendum the other week 96% of the people in Helsinki voted against the sale of Öresund power. It was a referendum with a historically high turnout of more than 50%. In light of this, I read in the Moderate Committee Movement on Competitiveness that they are moving in the opposite direction and once again want to privatise SBAB, SAS and Telia. My view is that the reason is ideological. It would simply be ideological sales. The support for our state-owned companies is strong, and there is poor support for these privatisations. This also applies to municipal companies. Why, then, does this policy continue? For example, selling a company like SBAB is economically disadvantageous. It is disadvantageous for all Swedes who have mortgages, because the functioning of the market is deteriorating and mortgage interest rates are thus higher. But it is also disadvantageous for the state and therefore for all Swedes, as you get rid of the dividend from SBAB. In the case of Telia, sales are at best economically disadvantageous, at worst a security policy risk. The Swedish Armed Forces have written – this is what we talked about in the plenary debate just six months ago: a possible divestment of the Swedish State's ownership, in whole or in part, can, however, have serious consequences for activities that are significant for Sweden's security... The analysis carried out in 2008 revealed extensive risks with a sale of the Swedish State's ownership. When, however, the Moderates propose a sale that could have serious consequences, I think, as a Social Democrat, that the burning privatisation envelope has gone too far. Madam President, I would like The state companies should be seen as an asset for the entire people. I think that the report we are discussing today shows that this is the case. We Social Democrats believe that the state companies contribute to a stronger society and a safer Sweden.
i-7546575806ed9b03-918	Madam President, I would like Sweden is in a situation where a national power shortage is approaching. We see that the need for electricity in industry and the transport sector is increasing as a result of plans to achieve fossil freedom with electrification. At the same time, a state-owned company is allowed to shut down two nuclear reactors when the possibility of pushing them further looks rather good. It could be possible to make relatively small investments, as evidenced by information obtained in the media from documents that Vattenfall has wanted to keep secret. One might think that it would have been reasonable for the Social Democrats as a historically industry-friendly party to go on the line of pushing these forward. Unfortunately, that is not the case. Instead, it rests against the Green Party, a government colleague, whose representatives instead cheered when Ringhals 2 was laid down and expressed that it was a fun event. The Social Democrats are refraining from even investigating the conditions. Are there conditions to push them forward, and at what cost? What impact does it have on the climate? It was chosen to say no to investigating. Madam President, I would like Then the idea is: Why has it become more important for the Social Democrats to shut down nuclear power than to stand up for a robust energy policy for Swedish industry and save the climate?
i-7546575806ed9b03-921	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the question. We can say that we agree on one thing: the Social Democrats are an industry-friendly party. We have always been, and we will continue to be. In this case, it is not the case that there are political decisions on the closure of nuclear power. Instead, there is a broad political agreement to try to create market conditions for investing in different types of energy. In this situation, it has become apparent that it is not possible to continue these two reactors. The truth is that it was planned from the beginning that they would be closed in 2025. Then it has become apparent that there are additional security reasons for considering a previous closure. If you wanted to push on Ringhals 1 and 2 it would have needed considerable investment, and it could not do for Vattenfall. Therefore, a business decision has been made to close the two reactors. These are not political decisions, which is a conclusion that you can easily draw when you hear the honourable Member, but rather that they are business decisions in Vattenfall. I would like to take the opportunity to ask Mrs Bäckström Johansson a question. For a long time, the Swedish Democrats have been very clear supporters of nuclear power. Could it be that the ideological connection to nuclear power has prevented rational decisions from being taken? Could it be that you are making wrong judgments because you want nuclear power to remain so badly? For example, as researchers have pointed out, the debate article signed by the honourable Member itself showed that there were considerable errors linked to developments in Germany.
i-7546575806ed9b03-924	Madam President, I would like There are no political decisions from the government or anything like that, they say. Nevertheless, the following is to be read in a budget proposal from the previous term of office: Vattenfall's plans to prepare for the construction of new nuclear power are discontinued. How can it be thought that this would not be a political governance of the company? What you want from the government is quite obvious. Of course, it is perfectly reasonable that this should also have been taken into account in future planning. Data have emerged that it seems possible to continue the reactors with small investments in order to meet the safety requirements set beyond 2020. But the Social Democrats were not interested in finding out what it would cost or even if it were possible– they voted against it back then. As far as the situation in Germany is concerned: when the wind is not blowing and the sun is not available, what is the electricity produced with? It's with coal power and natural gas. From Sweden it is possible to exercise active ownership control of Vattenfall in order to drive these reactors further during their technical lifetime in order to remove coal power and other fossil-based power generation on the continent, which can reduce greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to the Swedish driving process annually. That, if anything, is climate policy for real. Why is it so important for the Social Democrats to prioritise the shutdown of nuclear power over efforts to have a robust power system for the benefit of industry and to save the climate?
i-7546575806ed9b03-927	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Bäckström Johansson for the question. The truth is, we're not prioritising shutdown. Instead, this is the result of the fact that nuclear power is considerably more expensive than wind power, for example. We can also see this when we look around the world. Look at France, which has shut down its generation IV program! Look at Finland, which has started with new nuclear power plants! I think they started building in 2005, and they're still not finished. One of the most expensive facilities in the world is being built. The truth is that this is not a political issue, but a purely commercial one. It is not as the honourable Member says, that simple measures can continue to push Ringhals 1 and 2 further. This is what Vattenfall says: it is impossible to operate the reactors further, because they have not been invested in them in recent years. It is also the case that Ringhals 2 is already closed. We have heard of rust and cracks in the facade, and we have a special safety solution. As far as Germany is concerned, the honourable Member wrote a debate article in Dagens Nyheter. In the same newspaper, researcher Christian Azar wrote that you are wrong. What the Swedish democrats argued for was that the emissions from coal increased when nuclear power was shut down. This researcher writes about Germany: a study of renewable energy has been so great that it actually corresponds to the combined reduction in coal and nuclear energy. It is estimated that CO2 emissions from electricity generation have decreased by just under 30%. ..................................................... In short, we Social Democrats are an industry-friendly party. But we are not prepared to finance nuclear energy. We think it is more important to spend money on welfare or the police, rather than clinging to old dirty technology.
i-7546575806ed9b03-931	Madam President, I would like During the previous year we had an electric crisis in Skåne and Stockholm. Through tax changes for local electricity generation, the government made a serious situation almost acute, not least in southern Sweden. There we present several solutions on the part of the Moderates, among others. Another aspect of security and climate benefits is the use of nuclear power along with various forms of renewable energy. There, the operations of, among other things, Ringhal's nuclear power plants are very profitable after the changes where the power taxes are gone and the rules for the nuclear waste fund are changed. Vattenfall is a state-owned company. It is reasonable that there is a political perception of what you want with the company. Not long ago, there was a discussion in Parliament about Vattenfall and lignite. It was just as legitimate to take that discussion. Is it supposed to be or isn't it supposed to be? Should you sell, or should it be in the ground or in other ways? You can ask if it is reasonable to have it as a parliamentary question. It is common for the Riksdag to make decisions as in the Ownership Directive for Vattenfall. It is also a question of other companies having detailed ownership directives. This is the case with Svenska Spel. It explicitly states that you should conduct casino activities and VLTs, so it occurs. There are clear reasons – climate, fossil freedom and security – for continuing to use Ringhals 1 and 2 based on the profitability that is clearly present in the business. Vattenfall and Ringhals have their own report. It is true that it has three years on its neck. But if you read the report, you can see what they summarize. The conclusion is that Ringhals 1 with low investments can last both 50 and 60 years of operation. I ask myself: why do the Social Democrats choose to phase out nuclear power rather than to secure good conditions for industry and save the climate?
i-7546575806ed9b03-937	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Helmered, for the question. It is true that Sweden has had an electricity crisis and in some respects it has. It would have been excellent to find measures for this within the framework of the Energy Agreement. The problem here is that the Moderates are throwing in the issue of nuclear power as being one of the possible solutions to the problem. It's not. The truth is that Vattenfall has decided on a commercial basis to close Ringhals 2. This is precisely due to the availability of cheap wind and hydro power. In a debate article today, Vattenfall has said that it is impossible to push forward Ringhals 1 and 2 because they have not made any investments in recent years. Now the Moderates have come to the conclusion that they have changed their feet on this matter for twelve, or five, to twelve. Then one must surely accept that a report from 2016 is probably not relevant in this case. Where we are now, it is not possible to push on Ringhals 1 and 2. It is certain that the existing nuclear power has a low marginal cost. But it has also been built with large subsidies a long time ago. New nuclear power, on the other hand, requires three perhaps four times higher electricity prices. As I mentioned, France has closed down its generation IV programme. The Finnish nuclear power currently being built risks becoming one of the world's most expensive buildings, in good competition with the New Karolinska Hospital. I can't help but reflect on the will of the Moderates to cut off money on record expensive buildings with dubious function. What I would like to ask Mr Hjälmered is: do the Moderates want to finance their energy consumption with more expensive electricity prices or with a tax subsidy for nuclear energy? In such cases, where is the money to be taken from?
i-7546575806ed9b03-943	Madam President, I would like The answer is no to both the questions put by Mathias Tegnér. If we look at it, nuclear power is a very profitable business. This applies to all three reactors in Sweden. If you look at the kind of data for Ringhals that has been released from Ringhals AB and Vattenfall, we can see that you are talking about billions of profits made from there. It is also strange to compare with new nuclear power. We have the experience from Finland that it has taken a lot of time. France has decided to build six new reactors. We'll see where it lands. Now we are talking about two existing reactors which could potentially provide very much electricity at a low cost and with extremely low environmental emissions. It's not just the Moderates who say that. I understand that not everyone is impressed by it. But then you can look at what Vattenfall itself has said when they looked at life cycle analyses. Nuclear power has the lowest climate emissions in all categories in Sweden. We have the report from 2016. It needs to be updated but still shows the type of investment needs and opportunities available for Ringhals 1. The Institute of Economics has pointed out that for a period of time the emissions of Ringhals 1 and 2 can be reduced by at least 8 million tonnes. Only today, the Economic Council produced a report pointing to the risks of closure. They say that it can lead to a significant increase in emissions. They believe that a re-analysis of the closure decision should be carried out. If you do not trust the Moderates you can trust Vattenfall, Konjunkturinstitutet, Konjunkturrådet and a series of different researchers. Then there are different opinions. However, the reasonable thing if we are serious about security of electricity supply and that we have a climate issue to deal with would be to make an unconditional analysis. There, Social Democrats and Moderates should be able to agree to look unconditionally at what it means to push on Ringhals 1 and Ringhals 2. Either you say yes to that or it lands in the fact that it is more important for the Social Democrats to phase out nuclear power than to secure electricity supply and save the climate.
i-XvPzuyzLv96yxPDfeApNax	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Helmered, for the question. My question to the honourable Member was: do you want to finance nuclear power at higher prices or with a tax subsidy? According to the honourable Member, the answer was no to both questions. The conclusion of this must be that Vattenfall's management has made a wrong decision and that Lars Hjälmered sits on some knowledge that the company management does not have. They have considered and concluded that it is not business-like to pursue Ringhals 1 and 2. That must be the conclusion if the honourable Member does not want to finance the nuclear effort either with higher electricity prices or with a tax subsidy. Then Vattenfall's management must be wrong. I don't think they do. Above all, I think that if Mr Helmered has that kind of information, he should have asked us to replace the administration for Vattenfall years ago. The secret report that the honourable Member is talking about, we know, was already on the table when Vattenfall decided on the decision. It was on the management table, and yet they made the decision to close Ringhals 1 and 2. What we do not want to discuss either is the fact that, since they have not invested in Ringhals 1 and 2 in recent years, it is not possible to continue the two reactors. Finally, reference is made to the Konjunkturinstitutet. The Researcher at Konjunkturinstitutet says that the whole analysis is based on rough assumptions about the energy supply in Germany, which is undergoing major change. My observation is that now that energy policy has become so populist for the Moderates, it seems that instead of building its policy on real analyses, it is based on isolated debate articles.
i-7546575806ed9b03-956	Madam President, I would like I'll start with something positive. Social-democratic politicians have played a crucial role in building the energy system that has long served us well. But in recent times it is like the Social Democrats have completely lost the compass. Modern Social Democracy believes that security of energy supply is a matter of course and that any decision can be made without anything happening. Concerns about the future supply of electricity will affect those who are considering making investments in Sweden. It is not just a matter of lack of effect locally, even if it is serious enough. What we hear from industry is that one is seriously concerned about whether there will be electricity at all when it is needed. Closing Ringhals 1 and 2 prematurely has socio-economic consequences. This makes the power supply less robust and increases the risk of power failure. Power generation that can be controlled is switched off. The new production that is built is produced when it blows but not necessarily when it is needed. Do you social democrats think it is positive that Swedish industry has access to energy at a competitive price or do you have the same view as your government colleagues that cheap electricity that forms the basis of Swedish welfare is something to be combated?
i-7546575806ed9b03-961	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Teimouri, for the question. Has the Social Democracy lost its compass? The answer is no. The Social Democrats have been and will be an industry-friendly party. It is also a competitive advantage that we have competitive prices for electricity. What I am thinking, however, is whether the Liberals in this particular issue have lost their traditional compass linked to opportunities and conditions for industry to operate and invest here in Sweden. If there is anything that gives rise to concern for investment, it is the short-termness that has historically characterised parts of energy policy and which now again characterises Swedish energy policy. If there is anything that risks reducing investment in Sweden, it is precisely this short-sightedness. The Moderates and Liberals come at five to twelve, when Vattenfall says it is no longer possible to push Ringhals 1 and 2 further, that you should reopen Ringhals 2 and not close Ringhals 1. You can find out when it is no longer technically possible. We should remember that this is a nuclear power plant with rust and cracks in the facade that has special safety regulations. Sweden is a net exporting country in terms of electricity, which is not always believed when you hear the debate. 2019 was a record year, when we produced almost 26 terawatt hours of electricity that we net exported. Wind power increases by about 1,000 per cent compared to 2009. Basically, the Swedish development is very positive, and this is because the market has been given long-term rules of play. My question to the honourable Member is: why do the Liberals not protect market conditions in terms of electricity and energy?
i-7546575806ed9b03-966	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Mr Tegnér, for your answer. The fact that the Liberals came five in twelve with the question is absolutely not true; we have been pushing the issue of nuclear power for as long as anyone can remember. Nuclear power is an important part of strengthening Swedish competitiveness and really tackling climate challenges. What makes me a little worried, however, is when Mr Tegnér says that this is positive for the Swedish industry. Swedish industry needs to have energy when it is needed and where it is needed. I believe that we agree on this, and there nuclear power has an important role to play. It is true that Sweden is a net exporter of electricity. But we also need electricity when it is needed. This is kind of like concluding that when there is a lack of ice cream on the beaches of Skåne on a hot summer day there will still be ice cream on a cold winter day in Luleå in November. You can't reason that way. The electricity must be there when it is needed and where it is needed. We Members of Parliament have a responsibility. It is our decisions that determine whether electricity consumers will have to get used to adapting their use of electricity, and ultimately their lives, to the weather. For households it may be possible to wait to shower until there is hot water or to run the washing machine on another day, but for industry it is devastating. This Assembly needs to take its responsibility for Swedish competitiveness. A good start is to stop the insane shutdown of the Ringhals reactors. My question to Mr Tegnér is once again: do you have the same view as your fellow governments that cheap energy, the basis of Swedish welfare, is something to be combated?
i-7546575806ed9b03-972	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Teimouri, for the question. The answer is no. Cheap energy should not be combated. However, we have a large surplus eleven out of twelve months here in Sweden. And there are other, better, ways to remedy the fact that we do not have a surplus twelve months out of twelve. There are other types of energy that are able to deliver energy when needed. The truth is that the government has not decided on the closure of nuclear power, but this is a business decision made by Vattenfall. It may be that nuclear power had a low marginal cost when built 40 years ago, but after major investments in nuclear power with major safety problems, costs will also increase. Then we come back to the question where we started: What do the Liberals want to prioritise? Is it more expensive electricity prices for consumers and businesses that are envisaged because they want to retain and build new nuclear power? Or should the money be taken from tax subsidies? There is a further issue, which we have not discussed here but which I intend to be relevant in the future: if you are going to build new nuclear power, as the Liberals want, you have to either get in the knee on China or on Russia – two rather unstylish countries on which I am not sure we want to make ourselves dependent. So if we are to build nuclear power, we will have other safety problems. In short, this is not a political decision. The decision has been made on a commercial basis. Those who want to do something else must be clear. Do you want higher energy prices or do you want to subsidise nuclear energy?
i-7546575806ed9b03-979	Madam President, I would like I was going to start by reading some quotes on the issue of Ringhals. Now electricity prices are higher but significantly more renewable electricity generation has come into the system so there is no room for the reactors on the market. There are no financial or practical conditions to operate these reactors beyond 2020. This writes Vattenfall on its website. Here's another quote: a decision to close Ringhals 1 and 2 five years earlier than planned was taken in 2015 on purely commercial grounds and that assessment is still valid. This is what Vattenfall's CEO Magnus Hall says in an interview with Dagens Nyheter. What... has happened is a large wind power expansion that accelerates into the 2020s. Sweden currently has an electricity surplus, Ringhals 1 and 2 simply do not have room in the market in the long term. "That's what Torbjörn Wahlborg, Production Manager at Vattenfall, writes in an article in Dagens Industri. In the same article, he continues:中 Of course Vattenfall has re-analysed the decision to close and sees no conditions for continued operation beyond 2020. ..................................................... In a reasonable world, this should very clearly form the basis for how to relate to corporate investment decisions and decisions to continue producing or operating something. But in this House there are a number of parties that want to force Vattenfall to continue to operate these two reactors. This thus goes directly against the company's own professional decision. What we can ask ourselves, and what this debate is really about, is what principles we should have in terms of governing state-owned companies. I thought that at least at some level of principle we in this House were fairly agreed that individual decisions should not be dealt with in detail. I thought so, but obviously that's not the case. I think it would be rather strange to force a company to continue to run or produce things against its will, not least when this comes from right-wing parties. It is more like a plan economic idea of how to make decisions in a society. This introduction was a little about the governance of state-owned companies, and this is really what this debate should be about. But since most people have kidnapped it to talk about energy policy, so to speak, I still have to say a few things in general on this issue. The first and most interesting thing I think is that Sweden now has a record in electricity exports: almost 26 terawatt hours in 2019. This corresponds – hear and be amazed! - four ring neck reactors. There is no indication that this trend of increased exports, as we have seen for a few years, will end. On the contrary, most forecasts show that we will continue to have a very high level of electricity exports, thus helping other countries reduce their emissions. This is a bit complicated and complicated, but one can always discuss at a theoretical level whether Sweden with the help of very expensive technology, which is paid for by taxpayers, could continue to contribute to even more electricity exports. This is a theoretical discussion that one can have. But I would just like to say one thing: the European internal market is not formulated in that way. It will come to a point where the state cannot go in and subsidise a certain power stroke in the way that would be required to, for example, push Ringhals 1 and 2 further. Ultimately, it is the State that is responsible for that cost, and it involves state aid. One can therefore have the theoretical discussion that by forcing companies to compete out other power generation, but at a certain point – and where we are already – that discussion is actually completely uninteresting. I admire Lars Helmered, for example, who stands here and is so committed to the climate. I think it's great. But when Moderates are interested in the climate, it is only selective. If Helmered or the Moderates had been interested in exports or climates in general, they would have stood on the barricades of the electricity certification system and to expand it. Historically, however, there has not been a desire to have sufficiently high ambitions for electricity certificates. They had continued to fight for a higher carbon tax. A budget is now being presented which means a much lower carbon tax, roughly equivalent to the emissions from a coal power plant. And while I'm at coal power plants, it's interesting to note that Hjälmered is very committed to the issue of coal power in Germany and Poland, but he himself has stood here defending Swedish coal power production. Helmered has tried with his policy to foment continued burning of coal in Sweden, at the same time as he is so angry with Poland and Germany. So it is really selective when one strikes at the heart of the climate issue in this way. The only time a moderate actually takes the word climate into its mouth is when it comes to safeguarding the economic interests of the nuclear sector or denying climate change, as other Moderates do. There remains to be an appeal for the Parliament to add the Government's letter to the record and reject all motion requests.
i-7546575806ed9b03-995	Madam President, I would like Let us first note that during the previous parliamentary term with the Green Party in the government, greenhouse gas emissions in Sweden increased; they did not decrease. As far as the energy sector is concerned, according to the figures I recently saw 45 grams for each kilowatt hour produced in Sweden, 441 grams in Germany and 645 grams in Poland. For us, it is a fossil-free combination with a mix of nuclear power and various forms of renewable energy that means that we have the environmental benefits in the Swedish electricity and energy system. We have small emissions in Sweden and a competitive advantage for the Swedish industry. Electricity is used as an input to produce products that are then exported. The Economic Institute shows that continued operation of Ringhals 1 and 2 can result in significant reductions and avoidance of emissions. Only today, the Economic Council points to problems with the closure of Ringhals 1 and 2, which, as they put it, can lead to significant increases in emissions. They believe that a rapid and independent analysis of continued operation should be carried out. The Green Party can now make a difference to the climate. I have the greatest respect for the inherited view that we want to phase out nuclear energy – although I do not share this view. But if we now have nuclear power, we should use it, along with other climate action. What we are talking about when it comes to Ringhals 1 and 2 is that in a very profitable business able to produce a lot of electricity at a low cost with extremely low environmental emissions. Vattenfall's own life cycle analysis shows that all emissions from electricity generation in Sweden are low because we do not have, for example, coal power, and the emissions from nuclear power are by far the lowest. But now it doesn't seem to be. Then why is it more important for the Green Party to phase out nuclear power than to use this opportunity to do something good for the climate?
i-7546575806ed9b03-1001	Madam President, I would like I thank Lars Helmered for giving me the opportunity to talk about the Green Party's success policy for reducing coal in Europe. The Green Party has been the driving force behind The Swedish Proposal, which is currently causing the European coal energy to collapse completely. We were the ones who pushed it through in the government, and the government went down to Brussels and pushed it through the EU. Now we see the fruits of that work. In all countries except one, the European coal industry is now crashing, which is much needed. That is why we now see that emissions from Germany's electricity production have been reduced by 30%. These are drastic declines, and this is thanks to the policy of the Green Party. There have been many others who have also pushed for this, but the Green Party was first. For their part, the Moderates have voted 'no' every time there has been an opportunity to tighten up the EU ETS, which is the most important tool for removing coal. Then the Moderates have opposed it. Already ten years ago, the United Kingdom made a radical proposal about what is called backloading, that allowances and the like should be removed. The Moderates voted against it, and this line has been consistently followed in Brussels. In my speech I said that the discussion on how much Swedish electricity can compete out other power generation in other countries is interesting so far that we will continue to have large electricity exports from Sweden. But it's theoretical. Sooner or later, Europe will stop us if we give certain conditions to certain companies. But then it is a question of costs. I am willing to allow climate policy to cost. I think Lars Helmered is aware of that. But who will pay, and how much will it cost Swedish taxpayers? Or are you planning on someone else paying for it?
i-7546575806ed9b03-1005	Madam President, I would like I really believe that this is an inspiring commitment that Lorentz Tovatt and the Green Party have. Then it raises some questions. If you look at the outcome throughout the previous parliamentary term, we can see that emissions in Sweden increased, not decreased. It is also about what is actually being done and what benefits it brings. Profitability is found in Swedish nuclear power. Forsmark, Oskarshamn and Ringhals are very profitable operations. For us, it's about fossil freedom. When I looked the other day, over 90 per cent of Swedish electricity production was fossil-free, while about 20 per cent of electricity production in Poland was, and our systems are interconnected, although there are limitations in the transmission and so on. Then I venture to conclude that if you are serious about the climate, Swedish environmentally sound electricity can be useful here at home, but it can also be useful in Swedish products that are exported and in electricity exports. Then the objection is sometimes that there is a surplus in Sweden per full year and that we have a historically large export of electricity. I'm glad to hear that. Nor does it prevent you from taking the opportunity to drive Ringhals 1 and 2 further if you are serious about that it can provide a lot of electricity that can be useful here and elsewhere. Nuclear power is also the kind of power in the Swedish electricity mix that has the lowest climate emissions – we are talking about less than 10 grams per kilowatt hour. Normally, when electricity is produced in Germany, Poland, Denmark and other countries, it is hundreds of grams per kilowatt hour. Then it would be reasonable for us to unbiasedly investigate the conditions: Is it possible to take advantage of Ringhals 1 and 2 for another time and do something that is good for Sweden and for the climate? That would be the reasonable conclusion for a climate-related party such as the Green Party, unless the decommissioning of nuclear power is more important than the climate.
i-7546575806ed9b03-1010	Madam President, I would like The first thing to say is that the Moderates are now planning to vote for a motion that says that Vattenfall will push Ringhals 1 and 2 further. It's not about investigating it. I hope that Lars Helmered is aware of what he plans to vote in favour of, i.e. a binding requirement. I didn't really get an answer to any of what I said. The first was about the ETS. We have a system to influence carbon emissions in Europe. The attempts to tighten up that system chose the alliance government and the Moderates in Brussels to oppose. I didn't get any comment on that. It can be interpreted as another example of Moderates' selective attitude to the climate, i.e. that the climate is only interesting when certain interests are to be protected. Nor did I receive an answer to the cost question. It is important, because money always has an alternative use. It costs a lot to reinvest in R1 and R2 if that should happen. That money could have been useful elsewhere. We know that at the moment wind and sun are falling in price. There is an exciting technological development. It is sad that the Moderates do not see the opportunity that this development offers, but rather want to keep it under their arms – it will not keep itself up on market grounds. And again, who's gonna pay? Should it be charged on the tax note or electricity bill, and how much will it cost? I didn't get an answer to that.
i-7546575806ed9b03-1014	Madam President, I would like Sweden's electrical system is fully integrated with our neighbours' electrical as well as economic. The Nordic-Baltic electricity system has bottlenecks, but it has no national borders. The Green Party is happy to talk about electricity outflows. Like statisticians with special interest in electricity trade, they say that we have net exports of electricity from Sweden. This is true from a trade balance perspective, but from an electricity system perspective it has no greater relevance than that Norrbotten has an enormous electricity export or that Östhammar municipality, where Forsmark is located, also has it. Net exports from Sweden are even cited as an argument that it would be unproblematic to shut down large quantities of regulated, fossil-free electricity production. If you look at the entire Nordic-Baltic electricity system, the picture is different. Last year, 17 terawatt hours came from coal power and 19 terawatt hours were imported, and imports are a significant part of Russian gas. We know from the past that there are two major problems with Russian gas – one that it is Russian, the other that it is gas. Closing Ringhals 2 exacerbates the lack of regulated fossil-free electricity generation in the Nordic region and Europe. Climate gas emissions are increasing significantly, and the Green Party knows that. Is it more important for the Green Party to shut down reactors than to deal with the climate crisis?
i-7546575806ed9b03-1019	Madam President, I would like There are two problems with Russian uranium. One is that it is Russian, and the other is that it is uranium. We in the Green Party have said this every time the Liberals continue their rhetoric, but it is as if it does not go in. Liberals still seem to believe that uranium comes out of nowhere and is just a sunshine story. The truth is that uranium is broken somewhere and that Sweden is dependent on the countries from which we import it, including Russia. A large proportion of the uranium used in Swedish nuclear power plants comes from Russia. This is a security issue. You're supposed to be honest about that. Uranium is one aspect. Then I have the impression that the Liberals even want to build new nuclear power. Who, then, is building nuclear power today? These are state-owned companies from Russia and China. Do we want important electricity infrastructure to depend on Russia or China? I do not think the Liberals want that, but I am not sure that the Liberals have understood the link when it comes to energy independence. An important driving force for me in my work is that Sweden should be energy independent. This means that the electricity market should be decentralised and democratised. More people should be able to have power over their own electricity generation. It's about more solar cells on the roof, more part-owned wind farms and so on. Then I just have to send an important question back to Arman Teimouri. When it comes to Ringhals 2, which has now closed, we have a bottom sheet in the reactor closure that is simply broken. In addition, there are huge investment needs to meet safety requirements. How much is this going to cost? Do the Liberals just want to push on with these demands without thinking about safety implications?
i-7546575806ed9b03-1024	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer, Mr Lorentz. Let us begin by saying that we had a report in today's industry before Christmas that showed that it was not the astronomical sums that Vattenfall has referred to in the past. On the contrary, if I am not mistaken, they could actually be pushed forward until 2036. The climate has no boundaries. That's where I'm a little surprised at how the Green Party is reasoning. I am thinking of the fossil-free energy we produce here. We're net exporters, and that's great. But it will actually make us ensure that coal power is shut down in northern Europe and that there is a more decent climate in the rest of Europe as well. Northern Europe has great conditions for sustainable energy production. Here's the hydropower. Here are good conditions for wind power on a large scale. There is also solid nuclear know-how. It is not reasonable for us to be dependent on carbon power and the import of fossil fuliel with our good conditions. We should instead contribute up here by taking greater responsibility for energy-intensive activities. We must also reasonably be able to help other countries on the continent to phase out fossil fuels by exporting electricity to them when they need it. I think that is a responsible climate policy. My question to the honourable Member is still: is it more important for the Green Party to close down the reactors than to deal with the climate crisis?
i-7546575806ed9b03-1028	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Arman Teimouri, for the line shift! Much of what was now being asked about was answered in my speech. I can only say a few things. First of all, it is not true that we are dependent on fulbel. Sweden is a giant net exporter of electricity. In theory, individual hours of the year may be dependent on importing. It is almost exclusively from Norway. Norway has renewable power generation. We must move on from this sandbox discussion. We need to be able to lift past it. Then there are costs. You can choose to rely on anonymous leaks in newspapers, or you can listen to the professional assessments made by companies that run power production. I read a lot of quotes in my speech. Perhaps I could continue to read quotes from other people in Vattenfall who have spoken. I have to round off by almost going back a little bit to the ground. I know Arman Teimouri as a basically market-oriented man, who believes in the idea of free competition and that companies should be allowed to operate freely in a market. Sometimes I land in not believing that idea. It varies from case to case, so to speak. But the Liberals usually have it as their starting point, but not as regards nuclear power. It is clear that nuclear power does not have a market future. Then the Liberals want to go in with government subsidies. That is exactly how Sabuni interpreted Congress' decision: to enter state subsidies into a certain power battle. It is indeed strange that the Liberals can land in such a conclusion.
i-7546575806ed9b03-1033	Madam President, I would like Nuclear power is crucial for the competitiveness of industry and is central to climate change. The Parliament will vote on Ringhals reactors 1 and 2. It is a decision that will have a huge impact on Sweden. In fact, the vote on the future of Ringhal is one of the most important climate issues for a long time. The Economic Institute has studied how the closure of Ringhals' two reactors affects emissions. According to their conclusions, closure will allow emissions to increase by 8 million tonnes of carbon dioxide. 8 million tonnes of carbon dioxide is 15 per cent of Sweden's total emissions over a year. It must have been a long time since the Riksdag made an individual decision with such a great impact on the climate. For those who claim to protect the climate, it should be a rather simple decision. Sweden currently has the EU's cleanest electricity generation. This is due to a good mix of wind, water and nuclear power. Together, they contribute to Sweden's electricity being essentially carbon-free. Only Norway, with its hydropower, has cleaner electricity production in the world. This is something we should be proud of and defend. Sweden's unique energy mix has given us stable electricity production with low prices and low emissions. It has benefited both industry's competitiveness as well as household wallets and the climate. In the world of Moderates, there is no conflict between wind, water and nuclear power. There is no reason to shut down fully functioning nuclear power. Therefore, the Moderates want to give Vattenfall the task of driving Ringhals 1 and 2 further. Emissions will increase by 8 million tonnes if Ringhals 1 and 2 are closed. 8 million tonnes is four times as much as the Red Green Government has reduced emissions by since it took office in 2014. Madam President, I would like The issue of Ringhals 1 and 2 is not just about emissions increasing here and now. It is also about Sweden's opportunities to change society in a green direction in the longer term. If Sweden is to reach the net zero emissions target by 2045, the need for electricity will increase by at least 60 per cent, says the experts. Electricity is needed to replace fossil fuels, especially in the transport sector and industry, which together account for two thirds of Sweden's total emissions. The electrification of the transport sector is expected to increase the need for electricity by around 25% by 2045. In industry, the need for electricity is expected to be even greater when using new low-emission technologies. Steel manufacturer SSAB is developing a technology to produce steel without coal and instead use hydrogen. If this method becomes a reality, the company's emissions would decrease by 90 percent, but at the same time it would require 10 percent of Sweden's existing electricity. But if this transition, where Sweden goes from fossil fuels to electricity, is to play a role in the climate, electricity must be clean. To guarantee that, we need electricity from as many fossil-free sources as possible. Therefore, Sweden needs to maintain nuclear power, which together with hydropower accounts for about 80 per cent of Sweden's fossil-free electricity production. This does not mean that wind power and perhaps solar power are not needed in the future. I also believe that the forest will play an important role in the future. The Moderates welcome the expansion of wind power, but as wind power increases, the need for nuclear power, i.e. regulatory power, also increases. Nuclear and hydroelectric power are the only regulated types of energy, and they are needed to complement weather-dependent forces. It does not blow every day, and when it does not blow in Sweden it does not blow in many of our neighbouring countries either. Madam President, I would like There are few good arguments for closing Ringhals 1 and 2. When the owner Vattenfall made the decision to close the reactors, the conditions looked radically different. The impact tax, a penalty tax on nuclear electricity, was still in place and meant that the cost of nuclear power was significantly higher than today when it was abolished. Vattenfall itself has said that the company had probably made a different decision on the impact tax already then had been abolished. Then the reactors wouldn't be shut down. It is high time to reconsider the decision to close Ringhals 1 and 2. The Moderates want Vattenfall to be tasked with continuing Ringhals 1 and 2 if possible. In practical terms, Vattenfall should then carry out a rapid analysis of technology, security and economics in order to push on Ringhals 1 and 2. The government and, above all, the Green Party often beats their chests when it comes to climate policy. Now there is a great chance for the government to show that commitment to the climate does not stop at words. By supporting the continued operation of the reactors, the government has the opportunity to make a significant contribution to the climate. The government can show that the concern to reduce emissions is more important than defending an old ideological resistance to nuclear power. Finally, Madam President. Anyone who is serious about securing the competitiveness of the business community and contributing to the climate transition votes in favour of reservation 13. I support that reservation, Madam President.
i-7546575806ed9b03-1047	Madam President, I would like This debate is basically about state-owned companies, not about planned-economically produced nuclear power. I would like to take this opportunity to clarify some of the misconceptions and concepts that have occurred in the debate. Long-term conditions and predictable rules of play are something that every company, both state and private, highlights when talking to them. This is perhaps the most important point on all companies' agendas. This is what some parties now want to destroy. Reducing the political risk is one of the most important things this House can do for the business environment in Sweden. But almost half of this House now wants to break this. It would be a monumental blow to the will, security and cost of investing in Sweden. This will not only affect electricity prices, but also other consumer prices and, above all, climate change. So we have bourgeois parties in this House who actually want to re-regulated the electricity market. That's what they say. It wants to decide on individual power plants that are owned both state and private, although it is often forgotten to mention that 30% of Ringhals is owned by a private listed company in the form of Juniper, which in turn is owned by Fortum. The Riksdag will obviously also decide which electricity contracts are to be offered. This applies in particular to PPAs, i.e. electricity contracts between different companies and private buyers. We heard that earlier from the Moderates. The compass that the Liberals called for from the Social Democrats, I wonder if they themselves have not lost. For I did not think that bourgeois parties would be in favour of us in Parliament, with political decisions, pointing out what is left and what is to be closed down. This is about incredibly extensive intervention in the market. All investment decisions in recent years, since 2015, have been taken because it is known that these reactors will be shut down. We would not have had this development that we have seen since then otherwise. To roll back that decision by political means is an incredibly extensive intervention in the market. Moreover, it is probably not even legal. If you really think about what has actually happened, we have had a huge development. We are building much more new electricity generation than is being shut down, and this is being done on the decision to close these reactors. I really didn't think I would have to explain the basic business and social economy to bourgeois parties. When the Institute of Economic Development talks about large emission reductions, it is true. But what I don't judge is what would have happened if Vattenfall didn't shut down the reactors. This does not happen in a vacuum, but what has happened is that we have received an incredible amount of new power so that we reduce emissions even more than if the power plants had remained. It forgets some parties to tell. When some parties say that it is a low cost, they also forget to tell them that it is cheaper to produce other kilowatt hours with other forces that penetrate just as much coal power elsewhere. This is, of course, an effective climate policy: letting power plants built on market terms – this is happening in Sweden – be the ones that compete for coal power in Germany, Poland, the Baltic States, Finland and Denmark. This is really an effective climate policy. We can get more emission reductions per krona than with what is presented by keeping Ringhals 1 and 2. You should also remember that Ringhals 2 is broken. It has a crack and rust in the bottom plate. To quote Mats Ladeborn from Vattenfall: There is no way to count this home. When we did the last repair, the facility stood still for two years. This isn't a quick fix. This is like a car that got twos in the inspection. The facilities are broken. They're old. They are built in the 70s but have got a small respite to drive on for a while – when it comes to Ringhals 2 to 2019, which has already passed, and when it comes to Ringhals 1 to 2020. Then they need to be closed, because they do not meet the requirements. It is simply too expensive to repair. This is basic business administration. They may be profitable today, but they are not tomorrow when you take the investment. I really didn't think I'd have to explain this. Nuclear power is needed for more wind power, we just heard. That's not true. Nuclear power is stable but not planable. It is, however, hydropower. We heard quotes from the Economic Council's report that was just released. That is exactly what they say: investment in nuclear energy is not profitable, because it does not fit with the production mix that we see in the future. Finally, the intervention that the Moderates, the Christian Democrats, the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats now want to do is in breach of the liberalised electricity market. It also violates EU state aid rules, because you must not provide support to individual companies in this way. It violates the idea of a healthy market. It is also in breach of their own budget, because at best it is necessary to reduce the yield requirement for Vattenfall. But no one has taken heights. It takes a lot of billions to do this stuff, plus you're gonna force a private company to do the same. I really had higher thoughts about these parties. Responsibility, order and order in state finances, as well as a safe and healthy market, I thought were key words. It still is for the Center Party. Furthermore, if you say that Vattenfall and Juniper are lying that this would be profitable – you are standing in this Chamber saying that this is profitable investment, a spit styve – then it is, first of all, a case for the Financial Supervisory Authority, because then they have misled the market. However, I have not seen any such notification to the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. I have not seen that the Financial Supervisory Authority has started its own review. Nor have I seen a single buyer standing in line to buy these power plants. Secondly, if they were as terribly profitable as Ulf Kristersson said in a debate in Agenda, the buyers should be in line. It's billions of dollars! If it's such a simple and fast clip, I'm a little surprised that no party has taken the chance to buy. The Christian Democrats conclude their general speech by saying that the companies owned by the state should not compete with private businesses. That's a very wise attitude. In that case, you should reasonably sell Vattenfall or at least not subsidize billions of certain power plants. When the Liberals talk about economics, I wonder why it is the nuclear power plants that should be invested in. The best thing in that case would be to make sure that Vattenfall builds a turbine on the heating plant that is planned in Uppsala, where we have a power shortage locally. That, if anything, would be socio-economically viable. But you don't suggest that. It is precisely nuclear energy, which is probably a worse social economy in pushing ahead, that is being proposed. The logic of the Ringneck friends is therefore flawed. It doesn't stick together. This is a political game that is not rooted in reality. You want to do things that are not technically, economically or legally possible.
i-7546575806ed9b03-1069	Madam President, I would like The state owns around ten companies in full and in part. It is by definition that you have a political interest in these. This could be about SBAB, Orio, SAS, Svenska Spel and a lot of others. I think it is perfectly reasonable and legitimate. The Center Party has previously had detailed views on how Vattenfall has set up its call centre activities and where it should be located and not. I think it is perfectly reasonable that Rickard Nordin's party should be able to have that kind of opinion. As far as Ringhals is concerned, for me and for us, it is about the freedom of fossil fuels, that is, the combination of nuclear power and various forms of new and renewable energy. I think there are many reasons for actually considering the continued operation of Ringhals 1 and 2, such as climate, fossil freedom and security. It can provide a lot of electricity over much of the year, and we know from Vattenfall's own life cycle analyses that nuclear power is the power force in Sweden that has the lowest climate emissions. That is why I think it is reasonable to look further at the possibility of actually running one or both reactors. It would be a reasonable effect if the Riksdag now lands in giving Vattenfall this task. We're not the only ones who say that. Vattenfall did its own analysis in 2016 near 2017 for Ringhals 1. It was noted that the continuation of operations did not require huge investments. There are other experts in short-term institutions and economic councils and so on. If we are to be serious about climate change, this is a way forward. It can't be that, Rickard Nordin, for you and the Center Party it's more important to phase out nuclear power than to save the climate?
i-7546575806ed9b03-1075	Madam President, I would like Of course, we are in favour of the basic general guidelines for state-owned companies. However, pointing out that Vattenfall will continue to operate certain reactors, which are also already closed, is a bit like us steering Svenska Spel to introduce a nine-right dividend on the ironing tip. It's totally unreasonable detail control. Why are these particular nuclear power plants to be operated further? Why not control Uppsala, where there is a lack of power? It's been so long. The problem with the argument is, apart from breaking a liberalised electricity market, that it is not connected. There are alternative solutions that are cheaper when it comes to climate change. There are solutions to virtually all of these things that the Moderates lift up. But it is precisely nuclear power and these reactors that are interesting. This is detail control that does not belong in this House. It is detailed management that it is not reasonable to make political decisions on. It's done by Vattenfall's board. If it were so profitable, it would be a violation of, among other things, stock exchange rules. Both Vattenfall and Juniper have said that the calculations have been updated, and it is not profitable to do so. If so, it would be a lie. I suggest Lars Hjälmered, if he really believes in this, report them to the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and run a case there. Obviously, nobody's done that. None other than the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals believe that this is the case. In that case, a bid had been made for the reactors. They're allowed to move on. There is nothing from the state to say that the reactors must not be operated further, but they have been closed down on market terms because other power is more profitable. If you really want to pursue climate policy, you do so in the most effective way possible, that is to say what the Moderates say in this House; we shall have a climate policy that is as effective as possible to reduce emissions as much as possible. Then this is not the solution.
i-7546575806ed9b03-1081	Madam President, I would like It is not just me and the Moderates who have talked about what is profitable or not. I myself have read the previously classified report from Vattenfall and Ringhals, which has looked at reactor 1 and which investments have been made since the reactor was built in the early 70s and all the way forward. There are other experts who have been created gradually. The combination of security of supply and climate change suggests that this type of mission should be given to Vattenfall. It can provide a lot of electricity at a low cost and at low emissions. If we look at the price level now and the removal of the impact tax and change the rules for the Nuclear Waste Fund, existing nuclear power is a profitable business. It would be as it should be. Rickard Nordin lifts up other measures. I agree. We need to have more discussion about which market model will exist in the future in Sweden, how electricity grid regulation should look like, how we can work with energy efficiency and how we can secure local electricity production so that a deal that the government made with the Center Party and Liberals that created an electricity crisis in Skåne and Stockholm will not happen again. For me, there is no contradiction between that discussion, where we can think differently in parts, and nuclear power. We need the whole if we are serious about security of supply and the climate issue. Madam President, I would like Then we come to the question of the governance of state-owned companies. The Center Party has previously had views on where Inlandsinnovation has invested, to which mission, and later on Saminvest. In general, it has been a political discussion about Svenska Spel, which explicitly states in the Ownership Directive that it should conduct casino operations and games on VLTs. The Center Party has had views on call center activities in Vattenfall. And there are some other examples. It is perfectly reasonable and legitimate to have that kind of perception of state-owned enterprises. For me, however, it comes down to the fact that we should look at these issues in order to ensure security and the climate issue, and that should also be a reasonable c enter prise.
i-7546575806ed9b03-1088	Madam President, I would like In the case of Svenska Spel, VLTs and casinos, it is also a matter of acting in a monopoly market. It is a bit sad to have to inform Lars Hjälmered that Vattenfall is operating in a liberalised market. This also applies to Juniper, who owns 30% of Ringhals. The Moderates therefore want to force a private listed company to make certain investments. It is remarkable and does not play so well with general moderate politics in general – as far as I know. It seems that there is an unholy alliance between the Left Party and the Moderates on more and more issues. Planning economy is perhaps something we see in the cards in the future. What is interesting is that you can get a lot of electricity at a certain cost, unclear how much, by pushing on these issues from the Ringhals nuclear power plant. But you can get more electricity at a lower cost by doing other things, namely efficiency and protecting taxpayers' and households' money. They are the ones who end up paying the price of electricity. The big question in Moderate argumentation is who pays. It has not been increased in its own budget because it will require large investments from Vattenfall. This requires either lowering the yield requirements or counting the investment in another way, via government subsidies or something else. In addition, they are probably incompatible with EU state aid rules. It is simply illegal to do so, and this has not been taken into account in the Moderates' budget. Do the Moderates really want to leave the liberalised electricity market? That is in fact what is being proposed. It is proposed that private companies should be forced to invest in individual power plants. That's completely unreasonable. This has a major impact on the investment climate in Sweden and it has a major impact on the business environment in Sweden when you can't trust that politics adheres to the basic rules of the market. The Center Party and the Moderates obviously differ there. The Center Party defends a market that can invest and knows what applies whether it is a private or a state-owned company.
i-7546575806ed9b03-1095	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to sit in this Chamber and hear politicians from all directions almost excuse themselves for their political views and say that something is the result of the market. I think we should stand up for our political opinions. They have an important role to play. I am struck by the way neo-liberalism has beaten its claws in this House. I am listening to a debate that is not my own subject area – it is educational – and I am being struck by the similarities that exist with forestry policy. That, Madam President, is a good transition to what my speech should be about, namely Sveaskog. Madam President, I would like Today we are talking about how state-owned companies are run. Many politicians and representatives from the companies believe that profits are the most important thing. It should therefore be a superior task for our state-owned companies to deliver profits to the state budget. This is sometimes justified by the fact that we will then be able to invest in a good society. But the question is at what price we are doing this. Madam President, I would like To think that we are doing something good for the environment while allowing Sveaskog to devastate our last natural forests is like having a whole forest felled to build a birdhouse. 0.19% of our state budget goes to conservation measures. If the aim were to benefit the birds in the forest, we should simply not devastate the forest from the very beginning. It's incredibly non-economic. But the purpose of Sveaskog today is not to benefit nature, and there is not a word related to environmental protection in Sveaskog's articles of association. But it can be changed. Madam President, I would like We live in a climate crisis and in a species crisis, where we lose species at a raging rate. Scientists believe that about 1 million species are at risk of extinction. One of Sweden's most important and largest biotopes is the forest, and it is a biotope in which about half of our red-listed species are present. Kale fellings are the main reason why species end up on the Red List, along with regrowing, and the great change from an ecosystem to a monoculture can wipe out all the survival conditions of a species and thus put an end to its existence. If we want to contribute to biodiversity, it is by managing forests sustainably. And if there is any company that should go ahead is Sveaskog. Madam President, I would like Sveaskog is Sweden's largest land owner and owns 14 per cent of Sweden's forest. It is a state-owned company that is indirectly owned by the people. Sveaskog has been commissioned by us politicians. According to their interpretation, there are two main parts of their mission: a market-oriented part and a social one. As far as the market-oriented part is concerned, Sveaskog succeeds by far. With regard to the social-oriented part, which includes nature conservation, Sveaskog does not succeed very well. Sveaskog has also received criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office for its fuzzy mission. Madam President, I would like Contrary to the researchers' recommendations and alarm reports, which show that Sweden is unable to preserve biodiversity, Sveaskog continues with business as usual and prioritises billions of profits over functional ecosystems. Madam President, I would like One of the biggest problems with Sveaskog is that their goal of 10 percent conservation forests is not a floor but both a floor and a roof. They have interpreted their community mission as not being allowed to protect more or less than 10 percent. This means that if they have protected a forest of high biological value and then find another forest of higher biological value, they must choose which one of these forests should be protected. That is why, Madam President, Sveaskog must be given a clearer mandate and a rewritten Articles of Association that will allow rapid acceleration of the protection and sustainable use of forests.
