i-99689e2046aa7ce1-10	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating report MJU6 Hunting and game conservation. The report deals with movements from autumn's general period of exercise involving, among other things, wildlife management missions, wild boars, wildlife accidents, etc. Some of the exercises that were awakened in the autumn are very similar to those that were awakened in the previous autumn, and therefore we have had a simplified exercise management and will not pick them up for total treatment until next year. However, this means that all parties maintain their policies. Madam President, I would like In several policy areas, there is a preference to talk about the Swedish model, and so also when it comes to hunting and game conservation. Swedish game conservation is based on decentralised management based on dialogue and cooperation between the different actors affected by and themselves affecting the tribes. It is very important to protect and develop this, and in my speech I would like to mention three for hunting and game conservation rather hot v:n – wild boar, wolf and weapons. Let me start with wild boar. Madam President, I would like In many parts of Sweden, the wild boar tribe is a major problem for farmers as well as for road users. The cost of the damage amounts to billions. Many also follow the development of African swine fever with concern as an outbreak can have major consequences for both wild and domestic animal life. It is therefore important that we, from the political side, do what we can to facilitate the increased shooting of wild boars. Before Christmas, the Swedish Food Safety Agency presented its report on the simplified management of wild boar, a mission that came from an announcement in the Parliament last parliamentary term to facilitate the sale and distribution of wild boar meat. Among other things, the report proposes that trained hunters should be allowed to sell wild boar meat directly to consumers. In the earmarked money for the implementation of the food strategy presented before Christmas, the Center Party has pushed through a wild boar effort focusing precisely on facilitating the disposal of wild boar meat, and the Center Party will continue to push for many of the good proposals contained in the report to go from proposal to action. Since the last parliamentary term, there has also been a announcement that the government will come back with a proposal for regulated feeding of, among other things, wild boars. This is something that the government says it is working on, and I can only urge the government to speed up this work so that a proposal reaches the Parliament's table as soon as possible. In many parts of the country, the situation is acute. Madam President, I would like The second v is, as I mentioned, wolf. I began by saying that Swedish game conservation is based on decentralised management. However, a functioning game management requires that those people and activities that actually live with the wild in their vicinity and whose everyday life is affected by the extent and extent of the tribes also feel that they have the opportunity to influence the administration, and there I see that Swedish wolf management is cracking in many parts of our country. During the last parliamentary term, the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture has highlighted in several announcements the need to clarify and strengthen the mandate and powers of the wildlife management delegations. This also applies to wolf and predators – many wildlife management missions in vargät län express a great frustration at being run over in decisions on, for example, minimum levels of wolf litter. We will have reason to come back to an in-depth debate on wolves and predators when the committee later in the spring deals with the report on biodiversity, but I can already say that there is a need for a shift in the mandates of the wildlife management delegations, as well as the licensing and protection of people living close to the wolf in their daily lives to regain confidence in the administration. Madam President, I would like Although this particular report does not concern me, I would still like to devote a minute to the third and last v, namely arms. This applies above all to the view of legal gun owners, such as hunters. The need to take strong action against gang violence and illegal weapons, I believe, can all of us in this House sign up to, but the consequences that it has – for example, through proposals on storage regulation or over-implementing the EU arms directive – are disproportionate to the fact that the link between criminality and legal weapons is very weak. Sweden should take a strong stance against illegal weapons, but for a functioning game care system, skilled weapons managers are required. Attempts to curb illegal weapons by hunting and making it more difficult for law-abiding hunters are something that the Center Party will never accept. With this, I support the Center Party's reservation No 2.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-21	Madam President, I would like Today, as I said, we are debating the Hunting and Wildlife Protection report of the Committee on Environment and Agriculture. There are always many interesting points in this report. In some things we think very similar, and in other things we don't think very much alike. This year, as I said, it is a simplified exercise treatment, which means that the number of cases is a little slimmed down. I'm still going to lift some things that are directly handled and then some things that stumble into an edgeball. First of all, I would like to point out that we from the Moderates are safeguarding that the hunting and game conservation mission is at the Hunters' Union, where we think it belongs. We believe that they possess the necessary skills and know-how and therefore have the opportunity to carry out the task in the best possible way. When you talk about hunting in general, it is very important that it is a natural experience. It's about getting a good food that's produced in our master's pantry and that hunting is a natural experience. But it is also a cultural heritage. I think that our Swedish loose dog hunt is one of our most important cultural heritage and something we should protect in Sweden. It is important that we in this House do not make this kind of culture more difficult when we decide on hunting. It is extremely important to indicate that the Swedish hunt for lice dogs should not be made more difficult or in any way restricted. With regard to the issue of wildlife management delegations, we, the Moderates, have been pushing for a long time to increase the powers of the country's wildlife management delegations. They need to be able to make more decisions locally and regionally. We set up the game management delegations so that they would mean a more local and regional administration, but unfortunately this has not been the case. I think that the wildlife management delegations are often locked up and not allowed to make such big decisions. They are allowed to decide on some overall plan work and that kind of work, but they would have to be involved much more in issues that deal with protection hunting and license hunting in a sharper position. After all, it is the local and regional wildlife management delegations who are involved in the knowledge of these areas. That is why we are waiting with confidence. Now it is probably four years since the Riksdag addressed an announcement to the government to increase the power of the game management delegations. The only thing that has really happened since then is that the composition changed when the government chose to lift double chairs for some of the interests in the game management delegations, something that we on the Moderate side do not think is good. As I have said, the question of wild boar is often a hot topic to discuss. We now need to take up another aspect of the wild boar issue, just as our President mentioned earlier, namely that of African swine fever. It is incredibly serious, and it is approaching Sweden by leaps and bounds. I feel more and more that the question is not whether it comes but when it comes and how we should handle it. I hope – and get signals anyway – that we are prepared to deal with this when it comes to Sweden and that we can do it as well as possible. What I think we have failed in this is the information effort – I do not think the ordinary citizen is aware of the importance of taking precautions against African swine fever. I'm afraid that's where we're a little behind. What about wild boar in general? Yes, what the government did last May was very good. These are issues that we from the Moderates have also been involved in pushing for a long time. It is about aids for hunting wild boars and moving lighting and night vision. This should be able to result in a higher launch. I have not received confirmation of this, but I have received signals that the wild boar shooting increased by about 20 000 animals last year. The Trichinella samples increased in any case correspondingly, so either the strain has increased very much or we have managed to shoot more wild boars. We will have to wait until these figures are confirmed. The proposal now made by the Swedish Food Safety Agency for small-scale sales after completing shorter training for hunters is very important. We hope that the government will be able to put this proposal on the table as soon as possible so that it can be launched. We are approaching a new spring season and a new summer with milky crops, probably with high damage levels due to wild boar. I definitely believe that the launch will increase if the provision is made easier for the hunters, so it is extremely important that this is put on the table as soon as possible. Search was also mentioned earlier. I'm thinking of traffic search. This is a social effort that Swedish hunters contribute during all hours of the day all year round, and they do it in a professional and good way. Unfortunately, I think – and we have been saying this for some time on the part of the Moderates – that the financial compensation for this is far too low. I believe that the state expenditure for this is now at 46 million; on behalf of the Moderates we want to increase that budget by more than 50%. I believe that this is important in a number of respects, partly because the hunters are paid too badly. It is many times night work and many times a very difficult job. Sometimes it happens with a risk to life and health. They move next to busy roads and often have a dear family member – that is, the hunter's hunting dog – loose in this area. We cannot overemphasize the important service that they are actually doing to society; this is something that hunters are actually doing to the police. Unfortunately, I'm getting signals that the interest in traffic search is beginning to decline. Then I think it might be good to increase the compensation for this particular type of community service. It is also the case that our hunters, like our farmers and other traders, experience both threats and pure harassment. Of course, this is also a reason why the interest in doing this is beginning to decrease. Madam President, I would like I do not think it can be stressed enough that we must never accept this kind of action. We must never accept that people are exposed to threats and terrorism when they are going to carry out societal benefits or pursue an economic activity that is entirely legal here in Sweden. There's a hunting time investigation hanging in the air, and we're waiting with excitement for where it's going to land. We have heard a number of suggestions. I don't think you need to lift out any parts until it's all on the table, but there's a lot of interesting stuff in this hunting time investigation. We will have reason to come back and debate it later. Madam President, I would like I would like to say a few final words about one of the three vs which our President raised earlier, namely the wolf. We cannot debate a hunting report and not talk about the wolf. We from the Moderates have put forward a sharp proposal to lower the wolf strain to 170 animals in order to gain greater acceptance for the wolf administration in Sweden. We maintain this, and we believe it is a way forward. We are not alien to the fact that geneticly important individuals can be added to maintain a good biological status on the wolf strain. Of course, we will address the wolf issue more carefully when we come to the report on biodiversity, but I still felt that it was worth raising this issue here. It is also the case that the predatory issue can in many ways hamper, for example, the management of wild boars. Down in Östergötland, where we have a newly formed vargrevir, hunters suddenly no longer want to release their boar dogs because of the risk of being attacked by wolves. Then the wild boar tribe shoots up instead. The wild boar is not a favorite food for the wolf, so it cannot do the good that the hunter would otherwise have done. We have a little to deal with, so I am sure we will have a very interesting hunting debate next year too, dear committee! I have to finish here, Madam President – my time has run out. I had so much more to talk about, but I might get the opportunity for some good lines.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-45	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for our reservation 1 on the responsibility and decision-making rights of the Wildlife Management Delegations. The landscape where the wolf debate has been at its most noisy over the years, since the late 70s, is Värmland. As a warmer, I know of course which are the most important issues for my own population. This may even be the most important and hottest question in certain areas and areas; I myself come from such a region. I sit on the Värmland bench and represent my constituents there. I know this is a burning issue in Värmland, so I will dwell on the wolf. Today's predatory policy creates concern and resentment in the middle Swedish forest counties among small businesses and other keepers of animals – we know that. At the same time, we know that there is a 2013 parliamentary decision on a sustainable predatory policy. This is a decision that is not complied with and followed by the responsible authority Naturvårdsverket. I think that the government must authorise the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to correct its assessment of the level of favourable conservation status following the parliamentary decision taken in 2013; that should be self-evident. In some areas of western Svealand and southern Norrland, the concentration of wolf is very high. The wolf tribe needs to be managed much more actively in some areas, not least in Värmland and Hälsingland in the northern part of Gävleborg County. This is currently the case with many protection hunting cases. It seems not only strange but also serious that an authority such as the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is allowed to exceed the levels of the decision that has been taken when determining levels and based on newer research. A sustainable predator policy states that the wolf's reference value for a favourable conservation status should be 170 – 270 wolves. The decision taken in 2013 was based on another scientific material, namely the solid scientific data produced by Skandulv, where the smallest viable population for Scandinavia was added to 100 individuals. This was true of Scandinavia – not only Sweden. We now have about 300 wolves in Sweden and 100 in Norway, which clearly exceeds the 100 individuals required by this scientific report. Now, as I said, there is a new scientific basis according to which 300 wolves are the minimum for favourable conservation status. What will be the next step and report? What research will be commissioned then, and which researchers will be hired? Getting a desired scientific basis in your hand is not very difficult; it is only to give the assignment to the right people and you get the report you want. In hunting debates at home in Värmland, the Environmental Party is often represented by the same person as at the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency made the vulnerability analyses that formed the basis for the reference values for lynx, bear and wolverine. The same person has previously done vulnerability analyses for wolf, which formed the basis for Swedish wolf policy, and has also been the chairman of the Swedish Carnivor Society. Similar forces have a great influence on the scientific basis for Swedish predator management. A year ago we were able to read in the think tank Timbro's leaders that 11%, more than every tenth official, in the municipalities are environmental activists – another sign of 68-left march through the institutions and that the public has too much power on these issues. And not only this, but the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency also ran over a democratic decision from the game management delegation in Jämtland and stated that there should be wolf regenerations in Jämtland. This happened despite the fact that the wildlife management delegation has decided by a majority that Jämtland should not have any wolves. The democratic process is eliminated when a government works makes decisions that run counter to what a democratically appointed group under the county boards has established. The county governors in northern Sweden – Västernorrland, Jämtland, Norrbotten and Västerbotten – have also agreed in a joint consultation that the counties should not have any wolf regenerations. A vargrevir there is also a blow to reindeer husbandry, Sami culture and reindeer husbandry's chances of survival. There is also a parliamentary decision on a maximum of 10 per cent losses to the reindeer industry due to predators, and wolves would significantly worsen the situation and show that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has not listened very much. Some Sami villages declare that they have both 30 and 40 per cent clean losses, so the parliamentary decision does not make sense. In the committee motion of the Swedish Democrats, we made it clear that the objective that the reindeer industry's losses of reindeer should not have to be higher than 10 per cent. This needs to be included in the legislation as well as the fact that vargrevir in reindeer grazing is not compatible with the objective of a percentage loss, which we also had among our proposals for parliamentary decisions. Thus, in 2013, the bill "Sustainable predatory policy" adopted a target of no more than 10 per cent clean losses, but it was never incorporated into the legislation. We want it to. When democratic decisions are not followed, new instructions and regulatory letters to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency are needed. This should simply be reviewed and be able to be changed in order to follow more democratically adopted decisions, because it is not in keeping with what democratic groups and the Riksdag have decided once upon a time. It is important to have a strong local and regional presence in terms of influence and decision-making, absolutely, among the people who live and work there. Decisions on protection and licence hunting must be enforceable already in the game management delegation once favourable conservation status has been achieved. Only 6 protection hunts out of 42 applicants, as in Gävleborg, affect people's everyday lives. At the same time, the Minister for Rural Affairs feels that the hunting of wolves works well and that the authorities take decisions quickly. Perhaps she relied a little on the fact that Stockholm has applied for a protection hunt seven times, of which four have become a protection hunt and two wolves have been convicted. It is thus vastly easier in Stockholm than in the country. The concept of protection hunting must be broadened and used to a greater extent for preventive purposes. We believe that the county administrative boards must be given new directives here. Now that the German authorities are loosening the rules for killing wolves that threaten cattle, it should be interesting to study here at home the possibility of a massive increase in the protection of wolves. As the wolf attacks cattle in Germany, its counterpart to our hunting regulation has made it easier for farmers to shoot wolves attacking their cattle. The law now allows farmers to shoot wolves and hybrids until there are no more wolf attacks on livestock in the area. Sweden should also take a closer look at this. The Swedish Democrats have also proposed the creation of local consultation bodies in each municipality that can give rapid opinions to the county administrative boards before decisions on protection hunting are granted or rejected. A new grip – yes, it is – with better local anchoring and better ground. It is worth trying, because local knowledge of predators, incidents and moods at home must be able to be weighed in when so crucial decisions are to be made so far behind a desk. That would be the real regionalisation of predatory policy. One thing is certain: strengthening rural roots and better dialogue between regional authorities, hunter organisations and rural people in general. Here is an announcement and a parliamentary decision from 2015 on a new wildlife agency that should take over the functions of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency related to game conservation and hunting, which the government has so often put in the investigation pile. Of course, democratic decisions should be followed if the word democracy is to get the right sound. But I suspect that this will not happen until after 2022 with a new government base.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-66	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 4, although we naturally support all our reservations. The principle of subsidiarity is a complicated word but with a very good and important meaning. It is also a fundamental idea in Christian democracy. Decisions are to be taken at the lowest appropriate level and game administrations need to be further decentralised from European level down to national level and from national level down to regional level. The regulatory framework for the protection of valuable habitats and species in the EU should be adapted to the different national conditions. The protection of wildlife and endangered species are issues where Member States are to regain greater decision-making power. Here flexibility is needed, given that we have very different conditions within the Union. Animal and plant species threatened in southern Europe can be numerous, even harmful, up here in the northern Member States. License hunting on wolf, protective hunting on cormorants and hunting for seals are examples of issues to be decided nationally. The hunt is and should be seen as a national matter for managing nature's resources. Then we are at another core of Christian democracy, namely the idea of stewardship. In all contexts, the Swedish state needs to act in order for hunting issues to be dealt with at national level, not at EU level. Last autumn we received an EU ruling which shows that previous decisions on, for example, the hunting of wolves can be considered sustainable, even if some organisations try to suggest something else. The management of hunting and fishing rights shall take place with as much local and regional influence as possible. One way to bring decisions down to the right level is, as we have heard earlier in the debate, to use the game management delegations. On the question of the role and decision-making rights of game management delegations, the Alliance Government argued that regional and local responsibility for the management of predators and other wild game needs to be strengthened. The delegation would have the task of deciding on how to implement the game management within the county. This is extremely important, not least in order to gain local acceptance of decisions taken on controversial issues, such as the wolf issue. You have to know local conditions to make the right decision. Unfortunately, this has fallen in several ways. The red-green government changed the composition of the game management delegations at the county administrative boards of the country by appointing members of conservation organisations and nature and eco-tourism companies. In this way, the interest in the protection of the environment and nature gained disproportionate influence in relation to the hunting interest. The balance of the composition of the game management delegation should be restored. Madam President, I would like I highlighted this earlier in the House, but I am doing it again. It is still strange that knowledge in the subject to be decided on in this case is seen as a burden. Should not decisions be made by people with insight and knowledge? Wild game management delegations are an important part of decentralised and regionalised game management. This means that they must have the right to decide and a clear mandate on the issues they have to deal with. Today, the responsible authority, the county administrative board, the delegations' decisions are sometimes reviewed. It undermines their legitimacy and their willingness to work. There should be a review of the functioning of the game management delegations in order to develop and strengthen their role in the decentralised and regional game management. Speaking of authorities, I have to remind the government parties of the applicable hunting and game management authority. Hasn't the so-called investigation been going on long enough? Madam President, I would like On Christian Democrats' municipal days a number of years ago, I raised the problem of wolf at a seminar on rural areas. Right after the seminar, a woman came up to me. She looked pretty angry. Now there's a bucket of shit again because I was outspoken and said the meaning of my heart when it comes to the wolf, I thought. She began: ah, I come from Stockholm. We don't have a single wolf there. But I know exactly what you mean; we have boars. ..................................................... In previous posts we have heard about wild boars, and we see that their advance across the country is fast. Wild boar is a fantastic hunting game, and it provides very good and climate-smart meat. Ten years ago, the shooting was barely 50,000 wild boars. According to the latest statistics, it is up to over 115,000 wild boars felled in a year. It goes without saying that with such a large increase in the tribe there will be not only good hunting and good meat on the plate. It also has other consequences, which go in the negative direction. During the previous Parliamentary Session, several decisions were taken in the right direction to overcome the wild boar tribe and improve administration. But more needs to be done. Further simplifications in the field of assistive devices can be reviewed, among other things. We suggest, among other things, that drones be used to monitor and find fireable boars. It's also about knowledge. As wild boars spread across the country to new areas, more funds need to be allocated to increase knowledge of management. To go to regular war against wild boars, as some people want to do, can be purely counterproductive. Wild boar is a game species that must be managed – and managed properly. The Christian Democrats note that the Swedish Food Safety Agency's proposal for easier handling of wild boar meat is in many respects consistent with our proposal, but not all. We believe, among other things, that both trichinae tests and cesium tests should be funded by the state. We also want hunters to be allowed to dispose of more wild boar directly to consumers than the Swedish Food Authority proposes. Madam President, I would like Night like day, in the frying sun or in a biting storm – our hunters must always be on hand, among other things to track down and put an end to traffic damage in the wild. Unfortunately, they do not get the reward they actually deserve. Besides, it's not just the bet they should be paid for. They also have a dog that requires training to cope with the search. It takes a lot of time and is associated with costs. A uniform compensation model should be put in place for all road-injured game that requires a search. Today, the compensation varies according to the species of game. Appropriate compensation should also be provided for those dealing with regional coordination of search activities. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Hunter Association has since 1938 carried out what was then called the general assignment. Today it is called the hunting and game conservation mission. In the same year, the Viltvårdsfond was formed, which is managed by Kammarkollegiet. The Wildlife Fund is financed by the game conservation fee which is currently compulsory for all hunters. The Swedish Hunter Association receives money from the fund for its work on the hunting and game conservation mission. Large parts of wildlife conservation require a long-term perspective and a planning horizon over several years. Wild game surveying, game monitoring and education are some examples of basic game management that require long-term care. At present, a decision is made on payments from the Wildlife Fund for one year at a time, which creates some short-termness. It is reasonable that decisions on funding the hunting and game conservation mission should be taken for three years at a time. It will then be easier to plan the business. The government also makes the decision very late in the year, which does not give any foresight for any changes. In addition, more data have been added. The Association is increasingly involved in invasive species and disease monitoring. Multi-annual decisions are needed to make a difference. Speaking of the Wildlife Fund, it is not supposed to finance anti-hunting organisations, as is happening today. From the Wildlife Fund also receive some organisations that oppose hunting grants. It should be stopped. It is not reasonable for hunters to be forced to finance an activity that is counterproductive to their interests. Which other organisations are forced to do the same? Madam President, I would like The debate on the wolf I choose to wait until we come to the report on biodiversity, although it would certainly have fitted in here too, given the wolf's impact on both hunting and game conservation. Indeed, the so-called predator management that we have today has completely failed.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-83	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in its entirety to be approved. Hunting is a recreational interest for 300 000 citizens in our country. But for many of them it is more than a recreational interest. It's more like a lifestyle. Many of the hunters count down until the hunt starts. This is the great event of the year, which has been longed for. The dogs have been trained to be in good shape. You've done practice shooting, and you've anointed your hunting boots. The hunt means a great deal to many. Therefore, hunting is something that touches and arouses emotions. But it's not just the hunt for the game that's important. The nature experience and the community that the hunt brings means at least as much. The knowledge that hunters have about hunting, animals and nature and is passed on from generation to generation is valuable. When I was a little boy, I learned how to hunt moose, and it was first my father who let me go with him. Then it was Leif who taught me to hunt moose with stray dogs. We walked together in the woods at home in Stöde. He showed me where the moose used to walk and how to sneak up on the head. But he also showed where the water springs are and on which ant the cloudberries grow. Now it is my turn to pass this knowledge on to the next generation. What the hunting grounds look like, what game is on them and how the hunt is conducted differ in our long country. The knowledge of hunters is important, and it should be used in the regional and local influence over hunting. Here both the game management missions and the general mission are important and need to be exploited and developed. For it to work, you need to have trust and trust in each other. The commitment and responsibility of hunters, including wildlife conservation and traffic search, have contributed to the fact that today we have outstanding game care. Sweden should continue to be a pioneer country in managing our natural resources and game strains in a sustainable way. Madam President, I would like We can read and hear on a daily basis in our media on game issues. If we start in the far north, it is a protection hunt on moose with helicopter that is current and that many of us have reacted to. When we get to Central Sweden, it applies to the large concentrations of wolf. And in the southern parts of the country, it is wild boars and the damage after them that are being discussed. The wolf is a predator that arouses many emotions. We have a responsibility to maintain a favourable conservation status in the Swedish predator management where the wolf is part of it. At the same time, those living and operating in the countryside should be able to hunt and have animals. As I have said before in this House, those wolf individuals who take reindeer, dogs and domestic animals and who behave unnaturally are to be removed. During the last parliamentary term, a number of decisions were taken to ensure high efficiency and access to the best possible tools. In order to secure legal proceedings, a special appeal court was set up. An urgency requirement has also been introduced to ensure that these cases are dealt with quickly. The tools available are protection hunting and license hunting. Today, there are too many differences between county governments' assessment of predators. The government is working to increase equivalence. Dissemination of good examples from the county boards that today are good at dealing with the issues is one way. There is also reason to further focus on DNA analysis in order to quickly identify individuals who should be removed. The county administrative boards must also work on the basis of the tolerance level for the reindeer industry, the predation pressure for the reindeer industry must be reduced and the tolerance level in the reindeer grazing areas must be maintained. On the other hand, the conflicts surrounding the hunt for predators must stop and order and order must be created in their management. Some forces we hear today are trying to pull the country apart instead of ensuring that together we can find solutions and a balance that will enable people to live and work in rural areas while preserving biodiversity. No one benefits from conflict here. Madam President, I would like Besides the wolf is one of our most debated wild boars. The growing stock of wild boars has caused great problems for landowners and farmers and often great damage to their arable land and forest land. Based on this, the government has acted and in dialogue with the trade associations put forward concrete proposals to take a holistic approach to the issue. During the year, the Government has decided on, among other things, game cameras and light enhancement in order to facilitate and streamline hunting for wild boars. The Swedish Board of Agriculture was also tasked with investigating the need for further preventive measures to prevent the spread of African swine fever disease to Sweden. However, wild boars do not only harm but are also an asset. We often hear about the problems caused by wild boars, but we easily forget what a great resource the wild boar meat actually is. One solution is to eat them. We want to see more climate-smart wild boar meat on the plates simply. And it is especially gratifying when we can read and hear about schools and retirement homes that choose to serve more game meat. The Government commissioned the Swedish Food Safety Agency to develop proposals to facilitate the sale and supply of wild boar meat, and at the end of last year the Swedish Food Safety Agency presented a series of proposals for really good measures so that we consumers who do not hunt wild boar themselves can also easily buy the meat and put it on the grill this summer. More wild boar meat on the plates reduces the strain and thus also the damage. This, in turn, leads to reduced costs for society due to fewer injuries to traffic and reduced damage to agriculture and forestry. Finally, I must also mention the cloven-hoofed game. In recent years there has been an increasingly aggressive debate about grazing damage in the forest. Parts of the landowners' side have proposed a cut-off, but we believe that this is the wrong way to go. We take cloven-hoofed game management seriously but we see that there are more things to try to increase acceptance and reduce grazing injuries. In Boden municipality, where Sveaskog has recently applied for protection hunting on moose, a local initiative has been taken by the hunters, where they extend a hand to Sveaskog and instead propose an alternative to protection hunting. The hunt will continue to touch, stir emotions and create debate. The game is changing, and Sweden is a long country with different conditions. Therefore, hunters and landowners in the various parts of the country are also best placed to solve the problems that arise locally and regionally. We Social Democrats believe that hunting decisions should be taken as close as possible to the citizens. I believe that we can all agree today in the debate that our valuable game stocks should be preserved and exploited in the long term. It is local and regional that this work must be done, in a constructive spirit and according to the Swedish model.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-101	Madam President, I would like I said I would save the wolf debate for the debate on biodiversity, but I couldn't hold it any longer. It was a nice introduction that Malin Larsson had in her speech. It was sweet music for a hunter to hear, and a lot I can definitely sign on. Malin Larsson mentioned the conflicts around the wolf, which sort of pulls the country apart, between us who live in vargrevir and those who live in areas that are not affected by wolf. I understood Malin Larsson's speech that the Social Democrats and the government want to act to get a functioning predator management. On the basis of the speech by Malin Larsson, I would therefore like to ask: In what way do the Social Democrats and the government intend to work for us to have a new and functioning predator management?
i-Ak9UduSomvuFamdJALwcFZ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, for the question! We debated wolf last week and we will have to continue to debate wolf. It is a lot from what I mentioned, that it arouses emotions and that it affects people who live and work in rural areas. We have seen that protection hunting works well in some parts of the country, for example in Jämtland, where it has been very fast to produce protection hunting decisions and where they have also effectively succeeded in killing animals quickly. One must learn from one another and see the good examples. Then it is important that our decisions are based on a science that we can have as a basis. I think it's important that we listen to the research, because someone might think one thing while someone else might think something completely different. Then it is important that we have the research to lean against. There's a dropping inventory going on, and the latest figures from it showed 333 individuals. Over the past five years, the strain has decreased from 400 individuals down to 300, but now it is increasing again. Based on this inventory, I think we can expect license hunting again. We should be able to do this on the basis of the number of individuals.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-107	Madam President, I would like Then I hope that the government is also behind Malin Larsson's opinion. We could discuss a lot about facts and research, but I choose instead to lift up protection hunting, which Malin Larsson mentioned. Paragraph 23 of the Hunting Regulation states that consideration should be given, among other things, to social aspects when granting protection hunting, but we see that this does not happen at all today. In her speech, Malin Larsson pointed out that we must have a well-functioning protection hunt. How does the government intend to act in order for us to have a better-functioning protection hunt?
i-TyvHLYHtC2n4zw7sFkXuXA	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson! Above all, good examples must be disseminated. It has become much better in recent years based on the efforts made by the government. It's going a lot faster. The appeals that come in are dealt with urgently so that the protection hunt can take place. Cases are constantly being examined, and it is important to have the opportunity to do so. In the last debate we had, I picked up an example from Germany that I had recently read about. While this can be enjoyed in different ways, it is still exciting to follow all that is happening in other countries and see how to learn from one another. When there are too large populations in one place, it creates problems-- we know that. It can be difficult to see and find the individuals who are problem wolves during a protection hunt. It should clearly be possible for people to live and operate in our countryside, and then protection decisions will be required in the future as well.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-112	Madam President, I would like I should like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 6. I'd like to talk to you about protection hunting, too. We have our decided predator management. It says favourable conservation status, socio-economic aspects, domestic animal husbandry and that the wolf should be present throughout the country, but not in reindeer grazing land. There we have immediately removed half of Sweden, and then the other half is left. The other half houses large areas with clean plains and clean agricultural landscapes, where we may never have a wolf's establishment. The wolf may never be happy in these areas. Then we've removed a pretty large part of it. Madam President, I would like It is often said that the wolves today are probably where they like to be. If they are now in the areas in which they are expected to thrive, the tribe is quite large there. If we are not to have a licence hunt but manage the wolf more through a protection hunt, it needs to go better than it does today. It was previously highlighted how many applications and how many granted protection hunts this is all about. According to the German model, farmers should be able to protect their animals without DNA-proofing the wolves and thus build a greater shyness in the wolves. One can then make an effort more quickly, and one may be able to push away an entire territory that destroys agriculture in a particular area. Is the German example interesting, and do you see problems when it comes to being dealt with so differently today? Perhaps it would be appropriate to get to the inquiry on official responsibility that the Riksdag decided on in spring 2018.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-117	Madam President, I would like I thank John Widegren for the questions. The land of reindeer grazing consists of 51% of the country's surface area, and we know that it absolutely does not work to have wolves there. There should be no wolves there either. They cause enormous damage when they enter the reindeer grazing land. It is therefore not possible to have them there. So they do not thrive in the north and not in the plains south. It is important to constantly learn new knowledge. When it comes to favourable conservation status and so on, we say the same things. When we come up with a favourable conservation status, there is the possibility of, for example, licence hunting, as I mentioned earlier. In his speech, John Widegren stated that geneticly important individuals should be added. I ask myself a little bit of question about that. That is why I would like to put a counter-question. We know a great deal about the various diseases that are being spread by animals today, and we were both involved in African swine fever in our speeches. Here I see a risk that you can get infections into the country if you add individuals from outside. How does John Widegren view it?
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-121	Madam President, I would like I didn't really get an answer to anything I asked about. When it comes to infections that might come in with this type of animal, I see a greater risk with, for example, dwarf tapeworms and the type of infections that can be carried by dogs than they would bring with them African swine fever. I do, however, see a great value in perhaps doing so, because it could probably lead to us having a smaller tribe in these areas. We have said in the parliamentary decision that we should not have too dense populations. The only way not to have too dense populations is to reduce the number of animals. I therefore believe that it would be of great value to be able to import a genetically valuable animal. Once again, I would like to ask how one views the German system, i.e. being able to shoot wolves while hunting for protection without the DNA securing them first. I would also like an answer to the question when the government intends to take up the investigation into the reintroduction of civil liability. Then I am pleased that the Social Democrats believe that there will be a licence hunt the following winter. I think a lot of people are happy about that. Since protection hunting works so badly today and it is so difficult to get protection hunting, it is very important that we get a licence hunt on a large number of animals.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-127	Madam President, I would like I thank John Widegren for this. There are a lot of questions we're going to have to deal with here. In fact, I see a danger in moving wolves in from elsewhere. Then there is the risk of spreading dwarf tapeworm, just as you were on, John Widegren. We certainly do not want any more of that in the country. I don't think all our berry and mushroom pickers want that either, or hunters for that matter. Out in Europe where this parasite is common, people are advised not to pick and eat berries and mushrooms from nature. And one of the nice things in our country is that thanks to the right of public access we can go out and freely pick berries and mushrooms and more. It is important that we constantly learn new knowledge about the wolf. I mentioned the German example in the debate we had last week on the wolf. I had read about this then, and that is an interesting example to follow. But we also have a directive on species and habitats to take into account and relate to. There is an infringement case that is pending. If the EU thinks that Sweden is crossing the border, it can be very expensive. There are no small amounts involved. So we do not want to risk this; we want to be able to handle it as well as possible – as locally and regionally as possible. We are in complete agreement on that.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-131	Madam President, I would like The fact that wild boars cause great damage in many places is evident when moving in forest and land. They also cause problems for those who use the soil. It gives a boring experience for those who are looking for outdoor experiences. This issue comes up at numerous meetings when you meet citizens and your own party members. During the weekend I was able to hear many comments, not least in this region where there are also many wild boars. Then the question always comes: What does the parliament do, and what does the government do? Are you doing anything about the troubles that exist? Are you listening to us feeling that this is a problem? I would therefore like to take up the perspective of what is actually being done. A great deal more can be done, but a great deal is actually done. According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the rapid increase and spread of wild boar in Sweden has led to a revision of the national management plan. The opinion of the advisory bodies on the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's proposal for a revised management plan for wild boars for the period 2020-2025 is currently being compiled. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency proposes a number of measures. Firstly, responsibility issues at local, regional and national level. Secondly, the process of developing regional and local management plans. Thirdly, principles on how population-reducing hunting of wild boars should be pursued. Fourthly, measures to increase motivation for hunting and tools for hunting. Fifthly, damage prevention measures such as fences and the clearing of vegetation. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency focuses on achieving increased coordination between different actors and stakeholders in order to achieve effective local management plans. The shooting of wild boars should be increased and hunting should also be more focused on reducing population growth. Hunting time is long compared to that of other game. If necessary, the County Administrative Board may also authorise a protection hunt using methods that may not be used in normal hunting. As regards measures to increase motivation for hunting, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency refers, among other things, to the government commission given to the Swedish Food Safety Agency, which is about simplifying the procedure for the disposal of wild boar meat, that is to say, that we take advantage of the wild boar meat that actually exists. In its presentation of the assignment in December 2019, the Swedish Food Safety Agency proposed a number of different measures that we from the Liberals believe should be looked at. It is about training hunters so that there is an opportunity to increase the displacement and be able to deliver ten adult boars directly to the final consumer. The Finnish Food Authority also proposed a premium for hunters. However, the premium is subject to the approval of the results of meat inspection and other sampling. It should also enable hunters to deliver 50 wild boars per year directly to a local retail establishment that does not need to carry out meat inspection. These may be shops or restaurants that currently already handle other non-trichineal-bearing wildlife such as elk, deer, hare and birds. The Government Office prepares proposals on how feeding can be regulated taking into account the announcements in the Riksdag. With regard to the issue of financial incentives for wild boar hunting, as has been said earlier, the Finnish Food Authority has put forward a proposal. We Liberals believe that it should also be studied further. More measures are needed, but work is also under way to come up with new proposals. We Liberals believe that we should also compare ourselves with other countries. We have noted that Finland, which has far fewer wild boars, has taken strong measures to reduce its population. We think that is important to note. Several measures have been taken, but more needs to be done. Madam President, I would like I would like to mention something about hunting times. It has been raised in the debate here. I would like to mention the work that the government has done. According to the regulation, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will review at least once every six years the hunting times regulated in the regulation and, if necessary, propose amendments to the Government. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is currently working on a review of all hunting times. The review of hunting times makes an overall assessment for each species. The proposal for a changed hunting period will be submitted to the government in June 2020, and then the government will decide when the new hunting periods will enter into force. As far as the game management delegations are concerned, as the committee's report also points out, I note that the two announcements that have been made are being prepared. We in the Liberals will await the preparation of those announcements. Madam President, I would like Hunting issues engage in many different ways. There are those who see it as part of their leisure time to be able to stay in the forest and land, keep the game and put out salt stones. It's part of a lifestyle. There are also those who see hunting as a problem and think of biodiversity. Whatever the perspective, measures that contribute to sustainable management are important.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-143	Madam President and Nina Lundström! I understood from Swedish Hunting's light on how the hunt on wolf works that the honourable Member Nina Lundström thinks it works satisfactorily: We have not had reason to reconsider the criteria, or how the protection hunt itself works. ..................................................... Stockholm County has had seven applications, four times protection hunting has been granted, and two wolves have been convicted. There I understand that you think it works very well. But if you raise your eyes all over the country, can you still maintain that protection hunting cases are obeyed and work well in view of all the refusals that occur in the country?
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-145	Madam President, I would like The quote comes from an interview involving a specific case. It is not a general picture of what the situation looks like throughout Sweden. I and the Liberals are the first to note that this is a very large local issue in many different places depending on the life situation. We have very great respect for that. In this case, it is about how the County Administrative Board has made the assessment and the criteria on which the decisions are based. It is from that that I have given my answer to the questions. We will monitor developments closely. At the same time, it is about how research and science view the long-term management. We need to find a good balance point where we both respect and see the challenges that exist in local communities, but also think about the national administration and ensure that we are able to protect the wolf and its raison d'être. The answer was to a specific question in a specific case. We will come back in the debate as we approach the report specifically on the management of predators.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-149	Madam President, I would like The specific case raised in Swedish Hunting concerns the fact that only 6 out of 42 protection hunting applications were granted and where a wolf had been killed. Do you think that those who have applied for the protection hunts and are rather angry have exaggerated or even come with untruth, because so few of the applications have been passed? I have not seen a single motion on hunting or any other hunting initiative from the Liberals since the last parliamentary term when there was some joint committee motion with the Alliance. I wonder a little what kind of hunting policy the Liberals have at all on, for example, the issue of predatory policy. Since you have not presented your own conclusion or comitology, I am a little curious.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-151	Madam President, I would like I again became a member on 1 November 2019. It was after exercise time. I myself am very involved in hunting matters privately. I spend a lot of time in hunting grounds. I think these are important issues. For my personal part and for the Liberals, it is about the balance between management and biodiversity. We see and hear how many people from local communities express their concern about the life situation that exists. I've spoken to a young hunter myself and heard her story. She was out with her hunting dog and met three wolves. It was in Värmland a few years ago. I know very well what the challenges are. We must also see the possibility of protecting the wolf in some way. I believe that the point of balance that we in the Liberals are seeking is to be able to protect the needs of local society but also to ensure the national interest that we have a good predatory policy in which we are able to protect the wolf and its existence.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-155	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to start by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. I wanted to start by talking about the general mission, or as Kristina Yngwe called it: The Swedish model. In the 1930s, the then government gave the Swedish Hunter Association a so-called general mission to lead parts of the practical game care and hunting in the country. As a remnant of this, the Swedish Hunters' Association has been granted large grants from the Wildlife Fund for its activities through annual government decisions. In recent years, the Hunters' National Association has also received grants from the Fund. The fund's funds come from the game conservation fees that the hunter is obliged to pay, currently SEK 300 per hunting year. The current model is criticised. The model is contested because it is not considered to be in line with the procurement rules. The massive millions roll to the hunters' organisations has given these organisations a huge advantage in terms of debate and opinion-forming on game conservation issues. This can be seen as a problem from the point of view of democracy. In Sweden there is no effective hunting supervision. Wildlife care fees should be able to go to the construction of such hunting supervision, just as it is with many other activities that have to pay for the supervision of the respective activities of society – fisheries supervision and the like. The funds that the hunters' organisations receive can also be seen as a payment for a mission to be carried out, and that is a good thing. But not if it's seen as any contribution. If it is now a task, it should be able to be procured in accordance with current procurement legislation. There is a need for change. The fact that hunters' organisations receive a significant contribution to their opinion formation is particularly problematic given that the representatives of both organisations often invoke the existence of illegal hunting in support of their views on how game policy should be changed. I believe that these organisations are also increasing the motivation to engage in illegal hunting in precisely this way, even if, in the rhetoric of the next breath, they say that they are guilty of repudiating it. The Hunters' National Association also has a pronounced vision of eliminating the wolf from the Swedish fauna, which is contrary to Section 4 of the Hunting Act, which says that game conservation should aim to preserve the species of game belonging to the country's wild game population. The procurement law aspect has been highlighted by the European Commission. Since 2016, the European Commission has been dealing with a pilot case regarding Sweden's compliance with the procurement rules. For 2019, the Swedish Hunter Association received more than SEK 52 million. 35 million went to provide general knowledge and competence in hunting, 6 million went to game surveillance, 8.75 million to cloven-hoofed game management and 2.5 million to game and traffic. Given that the amounts are so large, none of the missions could be directly procured. A small part of the Wildlife Fund funds go to wildlife research via the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and SVA, the Swedish National Veterinary Institute. These efforts are not affected by this discussion because they are part of the state's own work. Today, one of the opposition parties is proposing increased funding for the hunting organisations. The Swedish Parliament needs to deal with this issue more seriously. As the report shows, the issue is currently being addressed by the government. That is why I am just going to mention a few things that the Green Party thinks should be looked at in the future. Of course, practical game management measures must continue to be properly procured. I would like to say absolutely that the hunters' organisations should be those who are involved in bidding for such types of contracts. Wildlife research funded by the Fund would also need to be strengthened and linked to clearer information efforts. Parts of the Wildlife Fund's funds should be used to build a state hunting supervision in the field in order to combat illegal hunting more effectively. Of course, as the Christian Democrats suggested here earlier in the speaker's chair, a uniform compensation for traffic rest could also be developed if the arrangements were to be made again. There may be more proposals, but continuing with a model from the 1930s which is also illegal is not a melodic of the future. Madam President, I would like I would like to comment on one point that Mrs Filper mentioned about an environmental-partisan leisure politician, given that I could not ask for a reply to the speech earlier. It's about a person who's been a scientist. Researchers can also become politicians. Researchers may also engage in the public debate. Many times we hear in the political debate – I myself have heard it many times – that it would be bad for officials employed in government or municipal administration to belong to an environmental organisation or some other type of organisation. We have a constitutionally protected right to organise ourselves in different organisations. There is no one who can question it, either employers or politicians. That is why I think we should look for more facts and discuss the matter rather than start accusing people of this. I think this is very serious, and I think it is very important that those of us who are in the Swedish Parliament mark this type of debate. I would also like to say a few words about the wildlife management delegations and the question of whether or not they are engaged in democracy. I think it is good to have a broad base in the game management delegations. At the same time, however, we have government officials – it may be county governors or government officials – who must also ensure that the law is complied with. I think that we in Parliament should welcome the fact that there are officials who want to ensure compliance with the law.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-172	Madam President, I would like Maria Gardfjell mentioned the hunting and game conservation mission, as it is now called. I was going to start with that, even if that is not what my question is about. Hunting and game conservation is a contribution. No tax revenue will be added to the fund. A grant cannot be procured. The hunting and game conservation mission therefore does not violate the Public Procurement Act or EU public procurement requirements. There has been a legal investigation in the past that clearly shows that procurement is not relevant. So to the thing I thought I'd ask you a question about. If I remember correctly, I asked Maria Gardfjell exactly the same question when we were here a year ago. Last week the Christian Democrats organised the day of the hunt here in Parliament. The theme was wolf, and there was talk of illegal hunting. Among other things, we had several researchers in place. Erica von Essen, who has been researching illegal hunting, was there. We have other researchers, such as Olof Liberg, who is a well-known wolf researcher. Mr Brå has also pointed out that legal hunting reduces illegal hunting. But Maria Gardfjell stood in the speaker's seat and spoke against these scientists.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-177	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. The relationship between legal hunting and illegal hunting is very interesting. Before the licensing of wolves was introduced, perhaps the main argument of all arguments was that the introduction of the licence hunt should eliminate the risks of illegal hunting. Now we can see in the rear-view mirror that this was not the case. In fact, illegal hunting increased with the increase in licence hunting. It may not yet be possible to draw too far-reaching conclusions after the years we have not had a licence hunt, but illegal hunting is a very big problem. The police also have very big problems in being able to get the guilty one. As far as the wolf issue is concerned, I myself did not attend the seminar organised by the Christian Democrats here in Parliament, but it was Rebecka Le Moine who was on the Green Party side. I think she's on the list of speakers, so maybe she'll show up here eventually and she'll be able to answer the questions. I think it is important for the wolf debate to respect the judgment of the European Court of Justice. It shows quite clearly that it can be difficult to introduce licence hunting in Sweden again. But that also means that we need to have a way of working in the future that will enable the protection hunt to be strengthened.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-182	Madam President, I would like I note that I did not get a shred of reply to my question. I asked a representative of the Green Party how the Green Party wants to work so that we can get less illegal hunting. You should be able to answer that regardless of whether you were on the hunt day or not. We have a protection hunt that does not work, as many have mentioned earlier in the debate. Unfortunately, we don't have a functioning license hunt. We have no functioning predator management. Thus people completely lose confidence in our authorities, and eventually you take the law into your own hands. Unfortunately, those most affected are both we legal hunters and the wolf. I therefore ask the question once again: in what way does the Green Party intend to act in order for us to have less illegal hunting? Maria Gardfjell mentioned the European judgment, which I also mentioned in my speech. I would argue exactly the opposite of what Maria Gardfjell said: it is a clear indication that the licence hunt we have had can be considered sustainable and that it could therefore continue. In France, a rather large wolf hunt is taking place at the moment. I am looking at news quite a lot, and I do not see that the European Union has acted in any way in relation to the French wolf hunt. This is where the European Union is being driven in full without putting its backs on the line, with which it is constantly threatened. So I do not think we should be so afraid of Europe. And in that case, it would be very much better if we actually dared to take a case all the way to the EU and get a final judgment. But my question is as I said: in what way does the Green Party intend to act?
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-187	Madam President, I would like It's sad that Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson didn't think he got an answer. I can say, however, that last year I wrote a motion on how to reduce the illegal hunting of wolves. It is very much about investing in police work and really ensuring that hunting organisations do not instigate further illegal hunting, as I mentioned in my speech. It is also important to mention, Madam President, that the Swedish wolf tribe is very fragile. Recent studies show that we have 290 wolves in Sweden. At most in modern times we have had 415 wolves. It is not only the licence hunt but also an extensive illegal hunt that has affected the wolf tribe very much. I also believe that it is important to ensure that the problems with, among other things, unshirked wolves and other predators are addressed. There is, of course, a need to ensure that protection hunting takes place here. However, it would be useful to clarify § 5 of the Hunting Act in order to ensure that it is permitted to also introduce intimidation measures. It's sometimes done, but it's not clear if it's okay under the Hunting Act. Scaring off the wolves and making them less shy, so to speak, is something that should be used much more often.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-190	Madam President, I would like The good Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson really raised the questions that I had planned to raise with Maria Gardfjell, but I'm making something up. The Swedish Hunter Association and the hunting and game conservation mission were discussed in the speech, Madam President. I think it is important to emphasise the work that has actually been done under the Swedish Hunter Association's umbrella. After all, many of our wild animals have increased while on this mission. This is because they have had knowledge, have managed and have taught hunters to do game care. It is in many ways what makes us have large game tribes today – both of cloven-hoofed game and of flying wild animals, both in the field landscape and in the forest landscape. It is important to emphasise that. Then I would also like to highlight the problem of protection hunting, rapid action and how we should deal with this. I know the Green Party has warm feelings for predator-repellent fences, and I want to roblematize a little bit about it. We have a lot of weird rules here. For example, farmers who choose pastures cannot receive support for predator-repellent fences, and many sheep producers may have only field baits. I have an example of a farmer in the Finspång area who would have to set up new predator-rejecting fences. He had first said that the cost would be 2 million, but when he had counted even more carefully it would cost this farmer 4 million to set up predator-rejecting fences. Then the next question will be how much this will actually cost the community, plus the problem of not being able to get support for predator-repellent fences on arable land.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-194	Madam President, I would like That is a very good question at this point. Predatory fences have been funded in the past in the rural programme, and it is currently being discussed whether to move predatory fences from the rural programme to a national programme. That would be an advantage because we would then be able to develop the regulatory framework and perhaps make it a little smoother. We could look at the problems that have existed and make it more adapted to, for example, field areas and such things. The next question is how much this costs society. There is also an opportunity to think about what it is in the fence work that costs. It is the work itself that costs the most. A national programme can link this to the possibility of using green services or projects that will be undertaken in the future. This is an area in which we can discuss how to work more optimally with the issue of predators. Now I simply forgot, Madam President, John Widegren's first question, so I hope he repeats it. But I would like to put a small counter-question to John Widegren. The reservation proposed by the Moderates here is about traffic search. I wonder whether it would not be an advantage to change the whole hunting and game conservation mission so that traffic search can be made possible.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-197	Madam President, I would like Maybe the first thing I talked about wasn't so much a question. It was more about seeing the importance of the efforts that the Swedish Hunter Association has actually made for the Swedish wild flora. Where we choose to place the search as a social task may not be so important at this point. Our reservation is more about us thinking that the compensation for those who do this is far too low. Just as some speaker pointed out earlier, much training is behind it. You should keep good dogs, you need to have good knowledge and you should be able to be on call and stand by 24 hours a day, every day of the year. We think that the compensation for this is too low. That's why we have a reservation about increased money for traffic search. I would also like to highlight this issue of illegal hunting, which was mentioned earlier. It is a bit unfortunate when you argue that the organisations' arguments, that they are against illegal hunting and that this can lead to illegal hunting, would be propaganda that called for illegal hunting. It almost sounds like that, Madam President, in the argument here. I am convinced that everyone in this House and all the organisations we have been talking about are strongly opposed to illegal hunting. That is precisely why we need to build a whole new acceptance for the predatory management that has been carried out. I do not believe that acceptance is widespread today. It is important to emphasise that. The Green Party argues that the only solution to combat illegal hunting is increased resources for the police. Of course, it may be some, but one must also be able to see the problem of increased illegal hunting as something else, as a mistrust and dissatisfaction with the administration that has been carried out.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-202	Madam President, I would like Of course, interest organisations of various kinds, including the Swedish Hunter Association, make great efforts. Unfortunately, I do not think they do so much for the Swedish flora but well the Swedish fauna. They certainly do. I think it was Malin Larsson who mentioned here in the speaker's chair that hunting is also a great leisure interest. It's a way to experience nature. In fact, it is not just a matter of hunting in the wild. Important public health work is also being carried out. I would also like to say a few words about hunting for injured animals. This is an extremely important mission that the hunters have taken on. Several speakers have talked about different allowances and that they are too low. I wonder who sets the level of compensation. Is it the state or the hunters' organisations themselves? If it is the hunters' organisations who do so, then they can distribute the money better. The Swedish Hunter Association receives over 50 million SEK a year. What is very important about the Green Party's approach to hunting is that, of course, we do not want to see biodiversity threatened. That is the basis for us. But certainly hunting can be done if it is done in a good way.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-205	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating hunting and game conservation. Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson asked me a few questions that I will gladly try to answer. In fact, I have written a motion detailing what steps I wish to take to stop the illegal hunt. I would also like to point out that research shows that legal hunting does not lead to a reduction in illegal hunting. This is important to have with you. So there are researchers who land in different conclusions, and then we have to take into account the complex picture that exists. It was referred to Erica von Essen, who attended the seminar last week. She has said that there is a culture in some hunting organisations where illegal hunting is widely accepted. The quote can be found in an interview study that she has conducted at SLU. The efforts we want to make are about introducing a natural vision according to Norway's model, which can serve as an inspiration and model. There you have field personnel who are looking and checking so that the funds used are legal and that what is being hunted is also legal. This does not really exist today to the extent that would be necessary. We know that various aids that facilitate legal hunting can also facilitate illegal hunting. Here we must be more able to regulate what can be used for what. Etts, bait cameras, silencers, night visions on weapons, GPS transmitters on dogs and drones – the use of these devices must be regulated through prohibition, authorisation or notification, Madam President. Police and prosecutors must be given more resources so that reported crimes can lead to convictions. Aids used for illegal hunting, such as weapons and vehicles, must be seized, and damages must be claimed in the event of hunting offences. Swedish citizens who have engaged in illegal hunting abroad should be able to be punished when they return to Sweden. These are some of the measures listed in the motion that I have raised and which is also being discussed today. Madam President, I would like I am passionate about everyone's right – the wolf's right, the lynx's right but also everyone's right – to make their voice heard, not only about 2 per cent of Sweden's population who are hunters. Last week, a seminar was held, as has been mentioned before. It was arranged by the Christian Democrats and the Hunters' Association under the principle The Christian Democrats tend to protect the elderly and the sick, but this day there was an exception. Among other things, an older lady in a wheelchair was banned from the seminar because she belonged to the wrong organization. She wasn't a hunter. She had to wait outside for more than three hours before she could see me in order to make her voice heard through me in this pulpit. I would therefore like to highlight an issue that is among the voices silenced in the debate, which are probably so important. In March, licence hunting of lynx shall commence. This is a red-listed species, and the Species and Habitats Directive does not allow you to pursue a licence hunt against it. It has been authorized to shoot 41 lynx, mainly females. This violates the EU directives. In fact, at the time of Sweden's entry into the EU in 1995, there was a reference level that the lynx population was not allowed to fall. The number of lynx at this time was estimated at 1,700. But the number that was sent in and used is 700. So if we have 701 lynx, we'll have a license hunt for 1 lynx. In fact, however, this shall not apply until there are 1,701 lynx. This is therefore contrary to our agreement with the European Union. Speaking of illegal, Madam President, there is also a widespread illegal hunt in Sweden, which we have touched on in the past. Every year about 70 wolves are shot illegally in Sweden. This is what I think the big debate on hunting and game in the Swedish Parliament should be about. How do we deal with the illegal hunt? Madam President, I would like There is great concern in Sweden about wolf. It may therefore be appropriate to mention that no man has been killed by wild wolf in Sweden for over 200 years. The anxiety and polarization are unfortunate. To deal with it, it would be most effective to stop giving the Hunters' Federation about SEK 7 million each year so that they can spread horror and hate speech against the wolf. It would be a simple first step to stop giving state funds to organisations that encourage crime. Madam President, I would like Every year about 50 million are also given to the Swedish Hunter Association. It takes place in an interesting legal form. They have a position similar to that of authorities, but unlike authorities, they have the right to speak. They can also apply for grants and also receive grants from Swedish Outdoor Life. It should not really be possible if you get subsidies from the state. The hunters' union conducts its own predatory policy. It makes them sit on double chairs. This is a conclusion drawn in public investigations from 1997, 2003, 2004 and 2007. These pointed out that the contract should be procured through the Public Procurement Act. Madam President, I would like There is not much that I am ashamed of to the extent that I am ashamed of Swedish hunting policy. I am ashamed, and I think it is high time that we in this House stopped sucking up to this 2.5% of Sweden's population. This is a democracy issue.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-222	Madam President, I would like I wasn't really going to ask for a line. Rebecka Le Moine shoots high and low, and I thought it'd be the best leftover. Nevertheless, I must respond to the criticism that Rebecka Le Moine makes. In accordance with Parliament's regulations on the opening of Parliament's premises at the invitation to an assembly, invitations and visits may only be made by means of targeted invitations to individuals and limited organisations. We had sent out invitations. Then other people had received an invitation from somewhere – I have my doubts but do not say anything about it in this House. They then signed up for the seminar they were not invited to. The day before the seminar, they received e-mails saying that they were not welcome because they had not received the invitation on the right path. I know that Rebecka Le Moine still chose to take some of them into the premises. But those who were not allowed to enter had not received the invitation correctly according to Parliament's regulations.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-225	Madam President, I would like So it was sent out a registration link from the Christian Democrats that was put online, and probably got it feet. There are many who are interested in wolf, not just those who want to shoot wolf. Therefore, people from other organisations, the Rovjursföreningen, the Hunt Criticians and others signed up. They received a confirmation email from Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson's office stating that they were welcome. They planned, took time off, drove up from Blekinge and took trains from Dalarna. These people had received an email and printed their report, but the night before, when they have reached Stockholm, they find out that they are not welcome. They think there's been a mistake, because this can't happen that late. So they go there anyway. Two people I let in as my visitors, because there was plenty of room. There were only hunters there, and they didn't fill the room. If you have invited via a link that has been leaked and you do not have control over and if you have welcomed people to a seminar you do not gate them at the door. It is not democracy, and it is not a dignified way of treating elderly sick people who are in wheelchairs and who have arranged travel services to come to the Swedish Parliament and who have been researching wolves all their lives. The Christian Democrats should be ashamed of themselves. Otherwise, I'll do it on your behalf. Why do you invite like-minded people to a democratic conversation if you're not afraid that your facts won't hold? We have been told repeatedly that these researchers believe this. But there are other researchers and reports that say something completely different. This is where a democratic conversation takes place with different interests, different opinions and different opinions. But here you don't seem safe in your own feelings.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-231	Madam President, I would like I continue to refer to Parliament's regulations on what applies, and they apply to everyone regardless of who you are. These people had received the invitation in the wrong way and entered in the wrong way, so they received confirmation that they were not welcome. Otherwise, I have nothing to say about it. Rebecka Le Moine says it was one-sided. I would remind you that we had several parties on the panel to get a wide range of both those who advocate hunting and those who do not advocate hunting. Rebecka Le Moine herself was a politician who did not advocate hunting. So there were people from both sides.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-233	Madam President, I would like It is an interesting view of being heard and, overall, an interesting and worrying view of democracy. The fact that we were some kind of props in the panel does not defend KD's actions and structure. The Nature Conservation Society had to make its voice heard twice, and there was a woman in the audience who asked critical questions but who was then not allowed to ask any more questions. It was hard to answer when she asked for what scientific reports formed the basis for the need for 120 wolves in Sweden. Because things got tricky, they chose not to allow any more questions from her. This is one of the worst things I've ever been through.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-236	Madam President, I would like I chose to enter the debate because the search organisation NVR was mentioned. I have been active in this organisation for quite a few years, and we are doing an enormous job. Let me take an example. On Christmas Eve evening, when the rest of you had dinner with the family, I was called out at nine o'clock because of a traffic-damaged boar, a boar of about 100 kilos. The search took five hours, so then my Christmas Eve was ruined. Many of us in the organization have noticed a change. Many colleagues are now threatened after completed assignments and want protected addresses and telephone numbers. So the threat has increased. What scares me most is that representatives of the Swedish Parliament collaborate with these organisations and participate publicly in their meetings. The Green Party's representatives have quite high tails and want to criminalise hunters but have no problem participating in demonstrations with organisations that openly use violence against Swedish hunters who are paid by the state and receive their fee from the police. I would like to hear how the Green Party, which is also in the government, sees its representatives aligning itself with criminal organisations that advocate violence and threats against Swedish hunters who are in the service of the state.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-240	Madam President, I would like Let us now turn to the debate on MJU's report No 7 on forestry policy. This report deals with movements from general exercise time on forest fertilisation, climate issues linked to timber production, spruce bark drilling, forest management rules and much more. Here, too, we have a simplified preparation and do not deal with the exercise that is exactly as obedient to the exercise that was handled last year. But that does not mean, as I said, that the parties do not support the policies they have put forward in their motions. Madam President, I would like The forest is one of Sweden's most important resources. Historically, the forest has built Sweden's prosperity by creating jobs and growth throughout the country, but also by exporting has created stability in troubled times. However, forests have not only been historically important. It will also take Sweden into the future. With the green carbon atom from the forest, we can create virtually everything our society needs. We can make fuel, construction materials, chemicals, paint, fabric etc. This transition is already in full swing. But in order for Sweden to fully exploit the potential of Swedish forests, long-term political rules are required. It is about long-term rules for the companies that will deliver the innovative products from the forest. Therefore, Sweden needs a bioeconomy strategy, which the Center Party got included as one of the measures in the climate policy action plan that the government presented before Christmas. It is also about long-term rules for forest owners who will supply the forest raw material that will replace fossil materials and create the conditions for increased growth in the forest so that biomass extraction can meet increasing demand. Last autumn, the Swedish Forest Board presented a report with 88 measures to increase forest growth by 20 per cent by 2050 and thus contribute to a fossil-free society. One of the areas highlighted in the report is active work to prevent and limit forest damage. During the year of drying 2018, granbarkbord made its large entrance in southern and central Sweden, and during 2019 the attacks continued on a large scale. Granbarkbord has in 2019 caused damage of nearly 7 million cubic metres of forest in southern and central Sweden, to a value of several billion SEK. In a growing bioeconomy, therefore, it is crucial to act decisively against spruce bark drills in both the short and long term. In the budget negotiations under the January agreement, the Center Party has therefore pushed through an investment of 30 million in 2020 for capacity building and management of forest damage, with a particular focus on the control of spruce bark. It is important that authorities, research and industry work together but also that the state takes responsibility for their land and how they affect surrounding forest owners. Therefore, the Center Party has in the regulatory letters pushed through assignments to both the Swedish Forest Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to reduce and stop the spread of spruce bark in protected areas. The Center Party will follow this work to ensure that it produces the desired effect and, if necessary, push for further action. The Swedish Forest Board's report also points to other growth-enhancing measures and mentions, for example, forest fertilisation and a review of the lowest final felling age in order to be able to deal with forest damage more proactively. These are measures that we in the Center Party believe are worth looking further at. We also believe that the Centre Party should look at the economic incentives that may be needed to increase the climate benefits of forests, for example in order to stimulate growth and thereby increase carbon sequestration and substitution. Madam President, I would like At the same time, Swedish forestry policy is based on two equal goals: production and the environment. It is important to safeguard biodiversity and to ensure that important values in the forest landscape are maintained and preserved for the future. But what is unique to the Swedish forest is the fact that half of all forests in Sweden are owned by individual landowners. This also means that there are many different hands that currently manage the Swedish forest. Swedish forest owners, not least family forest farms, have for several generations taken a major responsibility in environmental work in terms of protection of forests and valuable nature. Active ownership and management is a prerequisite for a sustainable forest, which is why these actors must be seen as a necessary part of environmental work. In the future, if we want a continued great commitment to Swedish forest management with the diversity and committed local farming that we actually have, Swedish forestry policy must also take greater account of and involve the individual landowners. An important entry point for the Center Party when it comes to environmental work in the forest is that we trust the commitment and ability of landowners. Valuable nature may need more protection, but at the same time it often means that ownership and use are restricted. It must be self-evident that owners or users should also be compensated for the restrictions imposed. It is totally unacceptable that forest owners should live in uncertainty as to whether or not they will receive compensation or even have to sue the state and fight unevenly. Clear rules on compensation in the event of restrictions are therefore absolutely necessary in the future. Madam President, I would like Since we stood here last year and debated forestry issues, the forest investigation carried out by the Center Party under the January Agreement has been set up and started to work. The proposals that we expect, as expressed in the directives, must safeguard and strengthen private ownership of forests by strengthening legal certainty for landowners and businesses and ensuring that landowners receive the financial compensation to which they are entitled. In addition, the investigation shall propose new or developed flexible forms of protection and compensation to compensate landowners for restrictions on ownership and use to the extent that they are actually entitled to. These should be based on voluntary nature and provide incentives to protect and preserve biodiversity and other public interests. We look forward to the report being presented this summer and are pleased to take this work further so that we get a long-term perspective in Swedish forestry policy. The principle of freedom under responsibility, on which Swedish forestry policy has been based, has served us well. That is what we in the Center Party want it to continue to do in the future as well. We support all of the Center Party's reservations, but for time-winning, we only ask for reservation 8.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-259	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that I think it is important to do what we always do when we sit at our committee meetings and the meetings of the European Council and the forest are mentioned: it is always extremely important to safeguard Swedish self-determination in relation to forests and forest policy. We are seeing today how the EU is getting into Swedish forestry policy more and more in different ways through a number of different proposals. These could include LULUCF, taxonomy and forest strategies. We must constantly monitor so that in Sweden we do not lose our Swedish right of self-determination over the forest. In the EU, forests have not been managed in the same way as we in Sweden have. In Sweden we have handled the forest in an extremely good way during the last 100 years and especially during the last almost 30 years, since the beginning of the 90s when we introduced the new forestry law. During the last 100 years we have built up a large timber supply in Swedish forests. For the last 30 years, we have continued to build up a large stock of timber, but we have also reversed the trend for much of what we measure in terms of biodiversity. In view of this, we from the Moderates have a proposal in our reservation which I would like to endorse. It's reservation number six. It is a matter of not taking more forest out of production in percentage terms. Then you can ask yourself how we think then. I'll give you a brief account of that. We mean, as I said, that biodiversity has increased and improved in Swedish forests during the last 30 years. Most of the curves go up in terms of, for example, dead wood, deciduous trees, old deciduous trees and old forest as well as bird species in the forest. We see many trends going up in terms of biodiversity. 27 per cent of Swedish forests are today taken out of production in one way or another. It includes both formally protected, voluntarily protected, general consideration and impediment land. This is a figure used by both the opposition and the government, so we can probably say that it is actually the figure we should have and debate. We think that the Swedish forest, which in 2018 contributed approximately 140 billion to bnp, should continue to contribute significantly to Swedish bnp with production and innovative thoughts and solutions. I think our committee chairman, Kristina Yngwe, preferred in an exemplary way what the forest can actually do and what we hope the forest will do in the future. But then we cannot continue to have forests out of production. Furthermore, we believe from the Moderates' side that there are such very high natural values in these 27 percent that we currently protect in different ways or no longer have in production. These are the values that we can probably increase on this area through increased management so that we do not have to increase the amount of land taken out of production. We have also spent extra money in our budget from the Moderates to better manage high natural values. Madam President, I would like We in the Moderates protect individual property rights very much. We believe that the Swedish forest owner individually has built up these high natural values and will be able to maintain them and also increase them in the future under the epithet of freedom under responsibility that has served Swedish forests very well. We see, for example, that general considerations are increasing. Today, an average of 11% is protected with general consideration. There, new high natural values are built up over time. Then it is extremely important for Swedish forest owners to know that when they build up these natural values no one should be able to come and lay a dead hand over their forest. We also know that the Swedish National Audit Office last year presented a report that said that we have too much protected quantities instead of qualities, and then it is many times that the forest owner has to put more land than is necessary to protect a high natural value. It is also part of the background to the fact that we are putting forward the proposal that we are making. I move on to the question of bark drills in protected areas. It is an issue that has aroused a great deal of emotion in the last two years. We got an incredible change in bark drilling populations during the dry year 2018. Both in 2018 and 2019, forest owners had to start doing an extensive job of searching and picking in their own forests to handle spruce bark drills. In protected areas in Kalmar County, which is a major problem in terms of spruce bark drills, no measures were taken at all by the authorities to deal with the spruce bark drill. In 2019, in a few of these areas, measures were taken to deal with spruce bark. Then we should remember that 70 percent of the nature reserves in Kalmar County were affected by granbarkborre. So few measures were taken in protected nature. It is not the case that spruce bark breeds and thrives only in protected areas. But we believe that everyone needs to shoulder their responsibilities in dealing with the spruce bark. We've seen scare shots and heard some really nasty stories from down Europe. There are German forests that are dead. There are thousands of hectares of spruce forest that have died because they have not handled the spruce bark. Then we do not think it should matter whether the forest is protected or not. We're going to deal with the problem of spruce bark. It is also the case that in some of these reservations – to talk about Kalmar County again, which I was talking about – it is stated that the landowners should be replaced if insect attacks from the protected area are spread to individual landowners. But this has not happened. We definitely have a great responsibility to handle the spruce bark drill, both in protected nature and in unprotected nature. We assume that the government will be clearer in its regulatory letters than it has been so far. We therefore find it terribly unfortunate that we could not get a sharp announcement from Parliament on this issue. We believe that this is exactly what would have been needed: a parliamentary majority that clearly indicates that this is a problem to be dealt with. I know that the government has included in its regulatory letters that action should be taken if necessary, but clearly there would have been a need for a sharper wording about the spruce bark. You get a little more positive when you see what came from Skogsstyrelsen today that there are hopes that spruce bark attacks will decrease during the year – if we get a normal summer. But we haven't seen that yet. We could very well have a 2018 summer, and then we have huge worries again. I maintain that everyone needs to take their responsibility to deal with the problem of spruce bark drilling, both in protected nature and in unprotected nature.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-278	Madam President, I would like Swedish and Finnish forestry are the most successful in the world. In Sweden we have been able to increase the annual felling volume since we started measuring properly 1926. It's more than doubled. Yet, at the same time, the volume of growing trees in our forests has increased from 1.7 billion cubic metres to over 3.1 billion, almost doubling. Housekeeping and ever-improved forest management have given these amazing results and have given our industry the opportunity to grow. In the last 50 years, hardly any species in the Swedish coniferous forest belt has disappeared. The exception is possibly the deciduous tree species midspice, which disappeared in 1982 from Östergötland, and black stork, which actually disappeared earlier but which came back and nested in Västergötland and Skåne in 1992. Both species have been seen in Sweden since then, most recently last summer, so there is good hope that we will be able to re-establish them. Since 1990, we have also become better and better in terms of everyday life in forestry. For example, we leave dead and living trees behind after felling. In addition, areas of fully protected forest in various ways have increased significantly since 1990. The risk of species disappearing hardly increases. Rather, it decreases. Madam President, I would like When talking about forestry policy for the next 20 to 30 years, there are important factors to take into account. According to the Paris Agreement and the decisions of the European Council, greenhouse gas emissions are to be reduced by at least 40% in the EU in 1990- 2030. This is a difficult task for both the EU and Sweden. Sweden, as is well known, reduced its emissions very sharply after the energy crisis in 1973 by building nuclear power plants and by becoming much better at handling process heat in industry, but we must not count on these efforts in the Paris Agreement, where the start year is 1990. By 2050, the EU is also aiming to become carbon neutral. In that calculation, most of the evidence suggests that the forest's annual carbon storage will be taken into account. After all, it must mean both letting out and sucking up – both must be taken into account. Growing Swedish forest binds 5 tonnes of carbon dioxide per inhabitant net each year, thanks to the fact that we harvest so much less than growth. Please note that the word is "net" here means growth minus felling. In addition to these 5 – 5 1⁄2 tons per person, carbon dioxide is also bound in forest products – very short time for paper, but very long time for boards that become houses, for example. If we therefore have to count on the carbon storage in growing forests in the 2050 target, it is likely that Sweden will be easier to reach that target than to reach the 2030 target, where we must not count on it. Madam President, I would like Half of Sweden's forests are owned by individuals, often farmers. It is their management decision that governs how Swedish forests and the Swedish forest industry develop. Their confidence in the future and trust are the basis for good forest management. There are those who say that Sweden should cut off less, even though we already fell far less than growth. But what would happen to the faith of the future? The success of Swedish forest management over the last 100 years has never been about felling less, but about managing the forest to make it possible to fell more. The positive development of the industry made it economically feasible to introduce planting after felling. The demand for thinning timber made it reasonable to clear young forests. For its part, the state contributed through support for planting, ditching, clearing, forest roads and more. Forest management boards organized nurseries, course activities, forest days and so on. In the meantime and thereby poorly managed forests gradually developed into well-managed thanks to motivated forest owners, long-term and encouraging policies and a viable industry with confidence in the future. The state subsidies for forest management have long since disappeared, and society's focus has been shifted to nature conservation. It's not a problem in itself. It's a good thing. But another shift is extremely serious. The authorities have begun to make decisions over the forest owners' head. From motivation to prohibition, from subsidies to non-reimbursement. The methods have led to a number of legal cases and to requests for investigations into such matters as ownership, right to compensation and Sweden's overinterpretation of EU directives. Far too many decision-makers seem to lack understanding of the history and conditions of the forest sector. Too many officials seem to think that they are the ones who are going to make the decisions for forest owners. This damages confidence in the authorities and reduces interest in voluntary investments in forest management and nature conservation. That is regrettable. Our forestry has been created by motivated forest owners in collaboration with industry and with supporting authorities. Forestry and the forest industry are important for rural areas and for the whole of Sweden outside the major cities. If the forest's capacity is to remain and develop – to make species conservation more effective, to bind more and more carbon dioxide, to replace non-sustainable products and to provide employment in rural and non-urban areas – this positive interaction between society and foresters must be recreated and developed. In our forestry movement, we have put forward a series of proposals on how to improve the situation. Among other things, I would like to mention: The Swedish forestry model based on private ownership and day-to-day consideration, supported by the Swedish Forest Agency, should be maintained and developed. 中 that the total area of forests excluded from forestry should not be further increased 中 that the key biotopes system should be redeployed – in this House last year not only we but a clear parliamentary majority, including Social Democrats, Christian Democrats, Moderates and Left Party In addition to what is clearly laid down by law, decisions which lead to restrictions on the forest owner of his forestry shall be accompanied by compensation: 中 that voluntary nature conservation agreements with forest owners should be given priority over the creation of formally protected areas where forestry is completely stopped, as also the Swedish National Audit Office recommends , that protected areas which no longer fulfil their tasks shall be deregistered and replaced by other: 中 that the proposals for green infrastructure which have now been developed should not normally lead to measures involving individual forest holdings. Madam President, I would like These are just examples of claims in our forestry movement. These are examples of what we think has developed in the wrong direction and what we want to do to reverse developments. Finally, I would like to reiterate that Swedish forestry is the world leader in its success in sustainable farming. It has given us our largest industry, based on renewable raw materials. The forestry sector is our best contribution to a global future with more renewable products, while at the same time creating jobs outside the major cities and helping to narrow the gap between urban and rural areas. We must continue to contribute to the development of our forestry in a positive direction.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-299	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 10. For some hour this afternoon we will be debating forestry policy in this House. The forest is an amazing resource in many different ways. For the climate, forests are an absolutely crucial resource and actually invaluable for sequestering coal. On the personal level, there is probably nothing more glorious than taking a trip in the forest at home on the farm. It's quiet and peaceful. I call it quality of life. As a forest owner, I want to manage the forest in the best way – rejuvenating, planting, clearing and thinning and ensuring that trees that have been blown down are taken care of. If the forest is attacked by the spruce bark drill, it must be removed. My dear wife and I are two of the 330 000 forest owners in Sweden. The medium forest owner has about 49 hectares of land, so it is a myth that there are only large forest owners. In fact, that is not the case – quite the opposite. Ownership and decisive freedom under responsibility have long been a cornerstone of Swedish forestry policy. For us Christian Democrats, it is self-evident that this should continue to be the case. Ownership and freedom under responsibility have been crucial for long-term ownership and use of own land. In fact, that makes us unique in the European context. When you rejuvenate a tree, you plant three new ones. Over the years, the monoculture of forestry has changed – now it is important that there are mixed forests instead of just one variety. With mixed forest there will be less damage to the forest and less fire risk. Madam President, I would like Forests are also incredibly important for our country's economy. The total forest exports are over SEK 140 billion. The economic value is very great. But also think of all the thousands of jobs that are available thanks to the Swedish forest! It's amazing how many people work in the forest. Are there any threats to the forest? Yes, it does. I have already mentioned one, Madam President: the irritable pine bark. The situation is worrying, in some counties extremely distressing, with affected fir trees that literally wither down. Last year nearly 7 million cubic metres of forest were destroyed in Sweden. Swedish forest owners do everything they can to prevent spruce bark spreading. Therefore, Madam President, it is bad and remarkable when landowners of nature reserves get in touch – as they did to me a while ago – and wonder why the state does not manage its own forest. I visited the nature reserve outside Hultsfred and was horrified and horrified when I saw how badly it was handled. Okay, can you say, does anybody care? Yeah, the people who live right next to the nature reserves care. They say it's terrible, because it's a power bench and a nursery for the spruce bark. The state must assume its full responsibility here. I have asked the Minister for Rural Affairs a question about this, and it is actually a fairly important question: why should forest owners around Sweden care when the state itself does not? We Christian Democrats believe this to be double standards. I think it is important that we consider this and make greater demands on the state to manage its nature reserves. Before we discuss back and forth whether we are going to have new nature reserves, we must ensure that we manage what we have.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-311	Madam President, I would like I really just want to agree with most of what was said. You were talking about the spruce bark drill, Magnus Oscarsson. Then I would like to say that I forgot to insist on something in my speech and take the opportunity to call for the approval of reservation 10, which deals precisely with the need to combat spruce bark drilling in protected forests.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-313	Madam President, I would like It was really nice that I got a line like that. It is as you say, Mr Nordberg – it is important that we really take care of our forests. Gran bark drills are terrible. We must hope that the state takes full responsibility and manages its forests. I think that's important, and I'm grateful that you think so, too.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-315	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by supporting Liberals' reservation No 2. Liberals believe that forestry policy is central to addressing CO2 and combating climate change. At a seminar this morning, we who participated were able to note that both how we fell and how we manage or do not manage wetlands affect emissions. Forests are also crucial for biodiversity. However, today's debate shows that there are goals and other conflicts. At the same time, the forestry industry is of great importance to the Swedish economy. The potential of forests to contribute to renewable materials, chemical products, textiles and energy production needs to be exploited. The liberals are behind Swedish forestry policy, which is based on two objectives: the production target and the environmental objective. Both the state and forest industries have a great responsibility to protect forest ecosystems, preserve biodiversity and safeguard nature conservation and environmental concerns. We Liberals believe that environmental considerations in forestry must be increased and that more research is needed on alternative farming and felling methods. At the seminar this morning we also noticed that the spread of monocultures also affects how the forest is managed in the future in terms of storm trapping, insect infestations and more. I, too, will return to the spruce bark. At the same time, ownership is important. What you own, you're supposed to take care of. We Liberals want to review rules to strengthen incentives for sustainable forestry by, for example, improving compensation models for the formal protection of valuable forests. We also see the importance of nurturing key biotopes. We believe that the most valuable forest and key biotopes should be protected by nature reserves and national parks. The remaining natural forests and old forests must be protected. Madam President, I would like State-owned forests have been used to speed up compliance with environmental objectives. The Swedish Parliament decided in 2010 to use 100 000 hectares of forest from state Sveaskog as compensation for other land with high natural values. The motivation for the land change programme was to be able to speed up efforts to achieve the environmental quality objective of Living forests. The land changes have been made with the big forest companies, the church and some commons. The land exchanged has been protected as a nature reserve. According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the exchange programme has resulted in significant time savings for environmental protection work. But the question to be asked is whether the goal of living forests has been achieved. The answer is no, not yet. Madam President, I would like The appropriations for compensation for protected land shall be sufficient to enable landowners to receive financial compensation to the extent to which they are entitled. In this context, it should also be mentioned that the ongoing study "Strengthening property rights, flexible forms of protection and nature conservation in forests" will propose new and flexible forms of protection and compensation for forest land protection by 1 July 2020. I would like to mention something about the spruce bark, on which many speakers have spoken. The question is where it comes from and how we should ensure that we counteract proliferation. For formally protected areas there are specific provisions governing the measures that may be taken in relation to insect ravages. For example, each nature reserve has specific regulations that describe what is not allowed in the area and a management plan that describes how the purpose of the reservation is to be achieved. In some nature reserves spruce may occur as a residue from previous production forests, and then it may be compatible with the management plan to harvest spruce in whole or in part to make room for other species of trees. I also note that the authorities themselves indicate that there is a false picture that the large-scale damage would come from precisely the protected forest. This is important to note. At the regional level, the authorities consider the problem to be limited as the formally protected spruce forest covers a very small part of the older spruce forest. If an attack risks spreading from a nature reserve, you can contact the county administrative board or the municipality as a forest owner. In May 2019, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency developed a special guide for the county administrative boards for handling granbarkborre attacks in and around nature reserves and national parks. According to the guidance, the county administrative board will acquire good knowledge of which protected areas it may be permitted to harvest spruce. If the damage is likely to be significant, the County Administrative Board may consider implementing measures such as felling or barking spruces. Winded spruces may also need root cutting and barking. Why do I refer to these examples? Because in the debate it may sound like nothing is being done. But there's a lot going on. In the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's regulation letter for 2020, the Government has commissioned the Swedish Agency for Environmental Protection to develop a guide for the county administrative boards' efforts to reduce the spread of spruce bark from protected areas such as national parks and nature reserves. According to the Government, the guidance should include, inter alia, preventive work and capacity building to stop the spread of spruce bark. The assignment will be reported to the Ministry of Industry this autumn. Madam President, I would like It is important to take action. Much is being done, and it is important to follow developments. I would like to conclude by mentioning something about the urban forest that exists in the metropolitan regions, namely that the forest is also a public space. For many, this is where you seek to enjoy the outdoor life that is lacking in the dense regions with densely populated cities where parks are not always sufficient. It is important to highlight how important the forest is to all of us. There is polarisation in the forest debate. I would like to stress once again that it is important for the Liberals to be able to both protect and manage the forest. I would like to conclude with the rhetorical question asked this morning: where did the forest go? From the Liberals' side, we hope that the forest always has a long and sustainable future in Sweden.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-335	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. I can also support much of what my colleagues in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture have said here. Kristina Yngwe gave her credit for the report, and I can add that the Social Democrats have had no worries whatsoever about agreeing to the points in the January agreement, paragraphs 26 and 27, which deal with forests. I will come back to this somewhat. Madam President, I would like Forest owners reported 10 per cent less forest for felling in 2019 than in the previous year, according to new statistics from the Swedish Forest Agency. Forest damage caused by fires, storms and infestations by spruce bark drilling has affected development. The statistics also show that notifications increased sharply in three counties. This has to do with the large fires in Västernorrland 2018 and the complexity there as well as the increased take-down of burnt forests. The major attacks of spruce bark drills in South and Middle Sweden have also affected. In the rest of the country fellings have increased by up to 25 per cent. One consequence of this is, among other things, notice in northern Sweden because the forest supply in the southern part of the country has been very large. We can also note that there is now some uncertainty as to how the forest as an export product will be affected by the present Brexit. The Chamber of Commerce in Mittnorrland traces that it can cost 200 - 300 jobs. I think it is perhaps in a transitory phase, but we can see that as long as no trade agreements between the UK and the EU are signed, the forestry sector may be affected. Madam President, I would like The production of forest raw materials is immensely important in the transition to a bio-based society. In order to phase out fossil energy, the forest is absolutely necessary. Forests have the potential to absorb carbon dioxide and bind carbon that no other natural resource has. At the same time as we use the forest, we shall ensure area protection and environmental protection. We have previously stated in the committee that there is a broad consensus that Swedish forestry policy should be firm and based on equal objectives of production and the environment. This is a fundamental part of our social democratic forestry policy, and we are pleased that it is also a fundamental part of Swedish forestry policy. It is important that we ensure sectoral responsibility and stick to the freedom of forest owners under responsibility. But, Madam President, forestry policy is being challenged today by contradictory legislation and practices and by the European Union, but also by climate change, pests, forest owners and conservation organisations. Freedom under responsibility, Madam President – what is it today? This is part of what we are going to investigate under paragraph 26 of the January Agreement, which concerns ownership of forests. It is about new, flexible forms of protection, forms of compensation and forms of lease and how this should relate to the international commitments that we have signed. It is about how we will ensure biodiversity and how it can be reconciled with a growing circular bioeconomy. The purpose of the investigation, which Kristina Yngwe also outlined, is to protect and strengthen private ownership of forests, to ensure legal certainty for landowners and companies, to ensure that there is financial means for compensation and to ensure that it is made clear when restrictions on ownership and use can be made and to what extent. The aim is also to highlight target conflicts and to highlight and exploit synergies between international commitments on biodiversity and a growing circular bioeconomy. We are also working on the directives for an investigation into how we should ensure and relate to the Species Protection Regulation, which this Parliament implemented without the members properly taking into account a production forest. What is the role of forestry? What is sectoral responsibility? What is the responsibility of the Swedish state to ensure the protection of species in Swedish forests? We also need to investigate this, and there is also the issue of compensation. Madam President, I would like The government continues to work with funding for the national forestry programme. Some say that little is happening with the national forestry programme; it says and rammers. I would say that a great deal is happening in our regions and municipalities. That is where the forest grows, and that is where we can have a real effect. It is also where the forest can be useful and used for further processing, to ensure biodiversity, for a growing tourism industry and for hunting, fishing and recreation. I also think it is quite important that we Social Democrats highlight paragraph 27 of the January Agreement. It is our view that the state should and must set an example, and that should also include social factors. It is totally unacceptable that the National Property Board or the Swedish Armed Forces procure forest services far below the level of collective agreements. It is also our view that the new Sveaskog programme should be directed at private forest owners. The land change programmes will solve the replacement issue for forest owners with high natural values. This is particularly suitable for those forest owners who will have compensation for mountain-side forests. The Swedish Forest Agency has presented a questionable report that says that the moose and other deer eat forest for 2.7 billion each year. That sounds incredibly serious. Of course it can be like that in some places. In the previous debate, on hunting and game conservation, we heard that Sveaskog is now applying for protection hunting from helicopters on moose in Norrbotten and Västerbotten. This becomes an infected issue in the struggle between growing forestry, interest in hunting opportunities and the management of a very important game for Sweden. I think it is important to ensure that the debate is held at a reasonable level. We need to do both, but forestry also needs to shoulder its responsibilities. They need to go ahead and ensure that there are other grazing resources for the moose. Of course, if there are no leaves or blueberry rice, the pine tree is in trouble. But even moose are affected by climate change. The elk population has declined sharply in recent decades, especially in the southern and western parts of Sweden. It is important here that hunters and forestry take their joint responsibility. It is also important, especially in South and Middle Sweden, that the project Mera pine should be energized. We must ensure that pine is planted on precisely pine land, so that we do not get the large and sensitive spruce plantations that have been so exposed to storm, rot and now also granbark attacks. We need to discuss how we can make forests more resilient to climate change. Monocultures with large spruce plantings are extremely bad and have a very questionable economic future. I think the forest owners are also fully aware of that. Gradually they will do their bit to mix up the very sensitive spruce forest. I fully support Nina Lundström's speech on the important work that the government has started. Action is needed. This issue is taken very seriously. This extent of this pest is not to be played with. Every effort needed shall also be made. Here, too, the state as a forest owner has a real and important responsibility. We have clearly indicated that if the measures announced by the government are not met, we are willing to take the next step. The State as a forest owner also has a responsibility in the protected areas to ensure that distribution does not take place. Madam President, I would like I will conclude by talking a little about the supply of skills in the forestry sector. I see this as an extremely important issue. Forest entrepreneurs may apply for employees in Ukraine and Poland, but now they do not find them there, so they want instead to increase the proportion from Thailand and Africa to come here and work in the forest sector. Today in Sweden we have a large labour reserve in exclusion and unemployment. Many of the new arrivals who arrived here in 2015, 2016 and 2017 are unemployed. We therefore announce to the Social Democrats that we will do our bit to create a new green programme so that we can get more of the new arrivals to work in the forest sector. It's about getting the knowledge of that group that you can earn a living by working in the forest. We think it's an important thing to do. We do not see that we need an increase in labour migration to ensure that we get the forest jobs done.
i-7suq9v4qmj7YPyj6UxGqqd	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Isak From, for your speech. In my speech I talked a little about this that the Swedish Forest Agency calls on forest owners to look after their forests. We also believe that forest owners do. This is particularly important also in view of the ravages of spruce bark drills around our country. The Swedish Transport Administration has now decided to charge a penalty of SEK 2,900 from forest owners who lay timber by road. It is not entirely certain that forest owners put timber in trots, but it may be smaller amounts of wood that is laid out when there are occasional attacks of bark drills here and there. Many forest owners see the penalty as another charge. I would therefore like to ask the honourable Member: what does Isak From think about this?
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-358	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Oscarsson, for the question! This is the crux of the matter. The principle of freedom under responsibility says that the forest owner himself should decide on the measures but of course with advice from the Swedish Forest Board. The Board of Forestry shall also assist with measures. In cases where additional measures are needed, we can decide, as a parliament and government, that the Swedish Forest Board may, for example, receive new funds to combat granbarkbords or other measures. As regards the application fee that the Swedish Transport Administration has decided on, I note that a majority of forest owners set up their own lay-offs that they pay with quite a lot of money, well above the SEK 2,900. If you then stand along the road and load timber, you may block traffic. Of course, sometimes it is reasonable for traffic to wait while loading. I think the question is being made too big. I also understand the problem if each post were to render a fee when it comes to smaller items. Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth has said that he is following the question and is going to look at this precisely if it is reasonable to charge even for the smaller items.
i-434fV2rq85sur6Y6XLBF56	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Isak From, for your answer. We Christian Democrats believe that this is not a sensible fee. On the contrary, it is a bad fee. It is, of course, a burden for those who live in rural areas and who are trying to get a spin on their activities, and it feels like another penalty. It cannot make sense to do this. I myself had the privilege of having a debate with the Minister for Infrastructure on this, and then he said exactly what Isak From says. I believe, however, that it is important for the government to make sure that this does not become a brake on what we want, that forest owners really manage their forests and also remove and get rid of the forest that has spruce bark. I wish we could have a clear answer from the government. Mr Isak From is part of the government base, so it would be interesting to hear exactly what the honourable Member says about this.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-364	Madam President, I would like In fact, I think most people appreciate forest owners who set up their own site alongside. It is greatly appreciated by the vast majority of road users. Then, of course, I think that the Swedish Transport Administration, just like the government, should look at this with smaller stores, especially linked to spruce bark attacks. Now we see that the attacks are of a much greater scale, and I think it is reasonable that in some cases we should perhaps make our own site so that we do not disturb traffic more than we actually need.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-366	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Isak From, for your speech. I agree with a lot of things. Magnus Oscarsson raised an interesting question about wood scraps. You can only reflect on what it can mean. The medium forest owner in Sweden today has between 40 and 50 hectares. You usually talk about a turnover per hectare and year of between 800 and 1,100 SEK – it may depend on where in the country it is. Then you can look at what this would mean for the middle forest owner. Let us say that the turnover is SEK 800 per hectare. Then this timber fee is almost 10 percent of his turnover on the forest every year, if he needs to put timber along a public road. This can certainly have a significant economic impact on him. Nevertheless, I am pleased that the Minister is looking further at this issue, because this could be a major problem for small forest owners. However, I would like to return to the speech, Madam President, which highlighted the forestry or property rights investigation contained in the January agreement. I can think, from the Moderates' side, that it will be a big problem when you say that you set up a property rights investigation and then place it under the Ministry of the Environment. Then I wonder: Will the right things be investigated? So we're landing right? Will we only deal with precisely forms of forest protection and compensation? Or was the idea from the outset that it would be more a ownership inquiry that deals with property restrictions even on a larger scale? Or is this just a matter of forest protection? I wonder if I could hear a little more about that, Madam President.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-369	Madam President, I would like We can see that we have received some inheritances. Some things have taken a little too long to ensure. We have the question of the species protection regulation and the implementation that the honourable Member's party colleagues were involved in introducing and that our authorities have had to deal with. It has not been easy to agree on this. But an investigation will be put on the table of the government. The parties involved in the January agreement will, of course, take account of the investigation, and they will put their political touch on the proposals. We need to move forward. We need to secure ownership. It is not fully secured today. It has been shown by various judgments. Or the judges have actually shown that the ownership holds. What is not quite clear is the relationship with international commitments and protection of species.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-371	Madam President, I would like Now this discussion is all of a sudden about the species protection regulation. What I raised was the ownership investigation or forest investigation that was set up under the January agreement. From what I understand, the Species Protection Regulation is not part of it. I may be wrong there, but I am happy to be informed of that, Madam President. We and the authorities have been waiting for this with the Species Protection Regulation for many years. I take little account of the government that pushed this through or not. It turns out that there are major problems, and it is a couple of three years ago that the authorities indicated a clear dissatisfaction about the species protection regulation. I am thinking, for example, of a forest owner having to go to a court in order to harvest forests where there are feathers. Tjäder is a hunting species – we shoot about 30 000 a year in Sweden. This is gonna be ridiculous. It makes no sense. However, I would like to raise once again the question of the so-called ownership inquiry, which was placed under the Ministry of the Environment. I wonder if it serves its purpose when it gets there. Shouldn't it have ended up at least in the Ministry of Enterprise?
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-375	Madam President, I would like I think it is very important that we discuss this. The questions of compensation in relation to the limitation of ownership are linked to the environmental code. Of course it will be extremely difficult. And then perhaps it is even more appropriate that it is precisely the Ministry of the Environment that has set up the investigation. Then there is the policy of the whole government. It is the policy of the whole government base that will then lead to the necessary legislative changes. If we are to get this right, we clearly need to change a number of legislations that have been unclear. We note: Yes, it has taken a little too long. Yes, we need to do this better. The forest is extremely important. It should be crystal clear as to what applies. What is sectoral responsibility? What is the forest owner's own responsibility? And what is the responsibility of the state? We are willing to take that responsibility.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-377	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and to thank Bosse Nyström, on behalf of the whole committee, who has been our secretary at MJU's office on these issues. He now moves on to another after a substitute. The forest is important. We need more wood for wood construction to replace cement and concrete. We need fossil-free raw materials that can replace coal and oil for a variety of products. But the forest is much more than wood, raw materials and bioeconomy. Forest ecosystems must maintain their ecological function, biodiversity and productive capacity. This, Madam President, is a prerequisite for long-term sustainable, resilient and productive ecosystems. Today's use of forests must not detract from tomorrow's opportunities to farm forests. The forest debate in Sweden is polarized and hot. There are many conflicts of interest, and I fully understand that voice is raised when species and unique habitats are threatened. We know that climate change is serious. What many do not know is that threats to biodiversity are even more acute. Therefore, the forest debate must never be one-sided. Therefore, forest owners, the business community, the public and we politicians here in Parliament must be involved in both climate change and ecosystems. More knowledge is needed. Today this morning the Green Party organized a knowledge seminar which was also broadcast in SVT. There we learned a lot of things, including what Mr Widegren mentioned: that 26% of the forest can be considered to be protected. How do you count? Well, then 8.3 percent is formally protected forest. 4.5% are voluntary provisions. 1.5 per cent are natural areas, and 11 per cent are areas with low production capacity. You can count in different ways. We are not going to hit the percentages in each other's heads, but we can see that we have not met the international requirements that exist. Forests provide important ecosystem services – nature's free services. These include public health, renewable raw materials and air and water purification. The forest stabilizes the microclimate and has a smoothing effect on temperature, precipitation and runoff. It contains biodiversity and great beauty values. The forest provides renewable materials that are needed in the sustainable construction of society. It provides opportunities for forest walks, blueberry picking, mushroom excursions and moose hunting. The forest provides tourist revenue and green jobs. It inspires cultural creators and sits deep in the people's soul. When Magnus Oscarsson says that he is out in the woods to listen to the silence, I do exactly the opposite: I go out into the woods to listen to the birds. The forest sounds a lot! Several important social interests exist in the forest, but at the same time all Swedish forests are owned by someone. Forest owners can be from farmers with a few hectares of forest to large companies with billion-dollar turnover. Social and private interests in the forest must show respect for environmental and production objectives. The loss of natural areas goes much further than the disappearance of rare species. Ecosystems, which derive their power from the diversity of life they contain, provide society with a range of valuable and economically important goods and services. They also play a central role in the fight against climate change. The European Commission has developed a strategy to strengthen all ecosystem services. It is called green infrastructure and is incorporated in Sweden. The County Administrative Boards have an important role in this work on regional action plans, which will be used for knowledge, planning and prioritising in various societal processes in the counties. By planning land use so that ecological processes are taken into account, the land can be managed in a more sustainable way so that we can continue to rely on important ecosystem services provided by nature, such as clean water. In a motion that we are discussing now, the Swedish Democrats propose that the work on green infrastructure be stopped completely. The very purpose of green infrastructure is to create a common understanding in society between companies, forest owners, municipalities, authorities, organisations and associations, yes, all, so that a broader understanding of ecological context emerges and so that green infrastructure becomes a natural part of planning and priority in different social processes. How can one be against ecosystem services in our landscapes and that they should be better preserved? How can one be against cooperation being the basis for planning? What the Swedish Democrats advocate in forestry policy I call freedom without responsibility. In order to achieve common goals for forests, forestry plays a crucial role. The Green Party wants to protect a long-term profitable and sustainable use of the forest. The Green Party wants a system that increases the profitability of those who look after their forests with extra consideration for biological and social values. The Green Party wants to promote clean methods, protect forests with high natural values, use forest raw materials in conversion and as carbon sinks, protect old forests and valuable biotopes throughout the country, protect the social values of forests, take account of reindeer husbandry, promote deciduous trees throughout the value chain and ensure that Sweden remains a voice in the world for sustainable forestry. We must also be involved in saving the rain forests. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say something about the bark drills. Drying-affected trees in spruce plantations on old arable land have been particularly hard hit after the summer of 2018. The government has significantly increased its efforts to our authorities, which actively cooperate with forest owners to halt the advance of spruce bark drills. I think that the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats take the lead in their movements on the spruce bark. It sounds like these parties are represented by city dwellers who know nothing about nature. I think it must be clearly stated that the spruce bark has some seventy natural enemies. Wise, knowledgeable forest owners are now facilitating the lives of these natural competitors. It helps them to put nature's own countermeasures against bark drills and makes the control much easier. Unfortunately, the heated debate has led some forest owners to remove all dead wood where the natural enemies with their ability to contribute actually live. Research has shown that forests with occasional bark-drilling every year do better than forests where it is completely shaved. A systematic work where you work to find and remove the affected forest, but thus do not really remove all bark drills, is the model. More information about this is available from the Swedish Forest Agency. The Swedish Forest Board also gives other tips, for example how important it is to mix different species of trees. The bark drills, for example, do not like the smell of birch.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-398	Madam President, I would like I'll try to remember what Maria Gardfjell said before we took a break. At least I remember certain things where I became apostrophera d. The first is about percentages for the forest. I would like to correct a mistake, as Maria Gardfjell said in the speaker's chair. She suggested that I had said 27 percent protected forest. I didn't say that. I said 27 percent out of production. There's a pretty big difference. I think it's the first time I've been spoken to like I wouldn't have grown up in the country, but in the city, because it seems like I don't know the spruce bark. I would like to point out that I have very good control of the spruce bark drill and the damage it can cause. That is why it is extremely important to mark this issue as hard as we have done from the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. Madam President, I would like I want to ask you a question. We know that general consideration in forestry is increasing very much. In that it is on average 11%. In this way we have very high ambitions from the Swedish forest owners to take care of and protect high natural values. Therefore, I wonder: is there really reason to continue to increase the protection of formal provisions when we have a freedom under responsibility with general considerations? Madam President, I would like One might wonder: Does the Green Party not believe in Swedish forest owners and what they can achieve?
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-402	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. When I read what the Moderates and several parties have written about the spruce bark, I undeniably get the impression that it sounds like the party representatives are city dwellers who know nothing about nature. That's why I developed my text on how the spruce bark drill has many natural enemies and how to bring it out to the forest owners so that they don't take the wrong steps in forestry simply but use the most effective methods. There is a need for both work to protect more sustainable forests and to take conservation considerations into account in forestry. I recently visited the FSC, the certification organisation, which is doing a good job of ensuring, together with forestry, that all these considerations are taken into account in forestry and that it can also be paid for. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask a question back to John Widegren. Above all, it is about the proposal made by the Moderates here today that there must be a limit to how much protection of forests should be. John Widegren has received a reply from Sten B. Nilsson in Svenska Dagbladet. He says, "He wants some kind of prohibition law so that the area excluded forest does not increase. Hardest beats his proposal against private forest owners who continuously make large provisions without compensation in the form of consideration areas and voluntary provisions. Shouldn't they be allowed to do it in the future? .....................................................
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-407	Madam President, I would like Absolutely! This is the problem. The forest owners themselves carry out these voluntary actions, which take place in different ways between 330 000 different foresters, where everyone thinks differently in their forestry efforts. Some people want pure spruce fields. But most of Swedish forests today are mixed forests. Of course they're allowed to do whatever they want. That is what we are asking for all the time. We are just against when you come and lay a dead hand over someone's forest and want to point with the whole hand from the state side. We still have to problematise what happens if we increase the amount of forest that is taken out of production. There's got to be a roof somewhere. It would have been interesting to hear the Green Party's reasoning on that. Can we protect in absurdity, or can we reach a border somewhere? For example, when we look at the 2014 government decision on biodiversity and ecosystem services, we are quite close. There are 5 000 hectares missing from formally protected forests, as the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency itself has said. In the case of voluntary provisions, part is missing. But it also says here that we can replace the volunteers with other things in green infrastructure, even the beach protection is mentioned. If we're going to start talking about beach protection, it's 25 percent of Sweden's land area. I definitely believe that we have achieved our international objectives in terms of the first interim objective as set out in the government decision. Therefore, the question is again: should we continue to protect formally where the state points with the whole hand, or do we believe that the forest owners themselves can handle it? Forest owners have built up the high natural values through the active use of agriculture and forestry.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-413	Madam President, I would like We have received an amazingly interesting answer here by John Widegren. He says the beach shelter is good for the protection of nature. I hope we will see the Moderates stand on that barricade in the future. The problem with voluntary provisions is that they are not long-term. I am in favour of voluntary provisions. I myself am a forest owner and have 25% of my forest land in voluntary provision. However, it is not a long-term vision that exists in it. At the forest seminar organised by the Green Party here in Parliament, we have heard today this morning about the problem of protected forests. In the southern parts of the country there are far too few areas. There are many types of biotopes that do not have the protection they should have at all. So do the scientists we listened to. This means protecting additional forests in order to reach the levels needed. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that it was an interesting line from research on the proposal made by the Moderates here today. It is said that the proposal made by John Widegren to now stop the possibility of expanding the area of protected forest is another example of how politicians complicate it and increase the daily lives of the country's forest owners.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-417	Madam President, I would like Maria Gardfjell made two statements in her speech, which I would like to comment on. Firstly, she argued that we in the Swedish Democrats wrote in our motion that we are against all green infrastructure planning. That is not entirely correct. In response, I would therefore like to read a section of our Committee motion A forestry and biodiversity policy on the regional green infrastructure action plans of the county boards. The principle that the State should conduct overall planning of this kind on private landowners' land is negative. Sweden has very large areas of state land, where the state as owner can carry out nature conservation at rural level. It should have been landscape level. In the same way, there are many large forest companies in Sweden, which can also carry out nature conservation in combination with care on a large scale. Individual landowners, on the other hand, should not be subject to this type of planning, which disregards the similarity before the law and can lead to landowners with all their older forest in the wrong place being deprived of their right to use while the neighbor can manage his forest as before... The distinctive character of the privately owned forest is a mosaic of different forest management strategies and this should be seen as a strength. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like In fact, in the forest debate this morning, the same basic point was also made by Professor Per Angelstam. Planning at the regional level is best suited for very large holdings and not for private small properties. I agree with Professor Angelstam in this. Maria Gardfjell also said that spruce bark drills would be reduced by the fact that we do not fell affected trees in protected areas. Leaving the affected trees would allow natural enemies to become more and more involved in the fight against the drills. I do not think we are in danger of having too few affected trees left, Madam President.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-422	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that the position taken by the Swedish Democrats is as follows: we are opposed to the so-called green infrastructure projects that plan future protection across individual soils. Although Professor Per Angelstam at the seminar this morning pointed out that small efforts can be made in small farms, this does not mean that small farms and small forestry should not be part of the large landscape planning. He has also said through his research that it is interesting that the green infrastructure is so well received throughout the country. There are very few other places in the regional talks where there are as many people from both authorities and municipalities and forest owners themselves with and where their organisations and the environmental side are also represented. There are very few players who are in practice opposed to wanting to take into account the important ecosystem services. For what if we could not take into account the interrelationship of our landscape? What if we could not take into account the fact that we have clean water and enough water in the soils? What if we did not take biodiversity, social development and outdoor life into account? What would it be like? And why are the Swedish Democrats so aggressive against green infrastructure, which is a way of working precisely to overcome what we have not managed before but which is a form of collaboration where all actors, small and large forestry, are involved?
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-427	Madam President, I would like I represent Dalarna in the Riksdag. When you look at Dalarna County Administrative Board's report on green infrastructure and the detailed map of so-called value regions in Dalarna, you find that they often cover very large sjok of privately owned old forest. The smallest core of value is 840 hectares, and it corresponds to a whole high individual owner. The largest is 10 500 hectares. Given how big problems forest owners already experience in preventing them from felling forests that they may have managed for generations, we do not think it is reasonable to add this to them. I would like to add that I have spoken with several concerned landowners, and they have not been consulted during the preparation of these plans. On the contrary, several – all of whom I have spoken to – have been surprised when they have seen their own forest in a core of value in the published map of value regions. This rhymes very badly with the county administrative board's writing in the same report on successful regional cooperation, which says: Successful regional cooperation requires long-term work where trust is built up and mutual respect is shown. I've shortened the writing a little bit. I don't think it's just the County Administrative Board in Dalarna that has made this blunder. My question to Maria Gardfjell is therefore: does the honourable Member think that the publication of the map of value regions without prior consultation with the landowners concerned is a good example of successful regional cooperation and mutual respect on the part of the County Administrative Board?
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-433	Madam President, I would like I wonder if Mats Nordberg from the Swedish Democrats has even understood what the maps of value in the green infrastructure are about. It is not about laying out a map and saying that an area should be used in a particular way or that it should be something reserved. It is a question of identifying the coherent values that exist in a region. It may be that there is a coherent area of wetlands that are important for groundwater formation. It may be that there is a coherent area with extra important biodiversity in the form of orchid meadows. These could be important areas for tourism and so on. Value cores and value regions are nothing more than a planning instrument, which is also valuable to the individual forest owner. It shows that there is a value range here, and then, as a forest owner, you can expect to get advice, support, help, training and all that can be needed to help you contribute. But it's not a coercion. This is a way of working for us in Sweden to collaborate on protecting our ecosystem services in a better way. I hope that the Swedish Democrats will read a little more next time before they take such big words that they want to dismantle a project that is initiated by the European Commission and introduced in Sweden precisely so that we can cooperate better.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-438	Madam President, I would like Thank you to Maria Gardfjell for mentioning my name and asking a few questions! I thought they were being asked me, so I guess I should try to ask the honourable Member a question. The honourable Member raised the question of the spruce bark, and I almost understood that you do not think it is such a huge problem. Of course, it's a problem, but I thought you still had a slightly different view of this. I mentioned in my opening speech that some counties are extremely hard hit. I also mentioned that I have visited a nature reserve called Kraskögle. There I saw with my own eyes what an extremely worrying situation they are in. The problem is that the state itself does not assume its responsibilities. We know that last year 7 million cubic metres were destroyed in Sweden. We hope it won't be as bad this year, but there is a risk. The problem arises when the county administrative boards around Sweden do not take care of the nature reserve. You can see that it is like a power bench; it is a pure frame the explosion around the spruce bark drill. I saw that with my own eyes. Then it is clear that the question is very justified: Why should forest owners around Sweden care about what the Swedish Forest Agency says when the state itself does not do its job? I mean, it's double standards. That is my question to Maria Gardfjell.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-443	Madam President, I would like I mentioned Magnus Oscarsson because he said he went out into the woods to listen to the silence. I'm going out into the woods to listen to the bird song. The discussion on spruce bark is important, and indeed this is an urgent issue. It is not for nothing that the government has set aside SEK 30 million to stop the drills in the project Granbarkborre project – so top the drills. What I raised is that there is a need for effective work to stop the spruce bark. When you have a political debate that is this intense and aggressive, you can sometimes forget that nature can also help. By using nature to help you can a little vaccinate certain areas against the spruce bark drill, and that is what research and the Swedish Forest Board have shown. That is also what I highlighted in my speech. If you leave behind some granbark drilling, it also means that the natural enemies are left behind. We have had the Director General of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency visiting the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, and he has been asked what the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the County Administrative Boards are doing in the nature reserve. He answered very well, and it is a good bet that is made to go in and remove attacks. It may be a bit difficult to say that the county boards are not taking care of their reserves, because part of the natural way to fight the spruce bark drills is to keep the old dead trees where the bark drills are no longer there, and one where their enemies remain.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-448	Madam President, I would like Of course it sounds a little bit of bird singing even in my forest- wonderful! Even wild boars come to visit in the daytime, so there are animals always. But now the question was, as I said, spruce bark. When I visited this nature reserve, I felt that there was despair. Although the Director General of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency says that you do this, the answer is that you do not. In any case, the county boards around the country do not do so as we would have liked. I think it is important that the government, which Mrs Maria represents, really push on here to manage its forests. Otherwise it will be: Why does the state not manage its forests and nature reserves? Shall we do it in our forests? In fact, I believe that after this discussion, those who live at the nature reserve in Kraskögle will invite Mrs Maria to the reserve. I think they want to show us what it looks like and that the neighbor of a nature reserve has drawn a rivet. I don't think it should be that way. I think there should be order and order also on state forests.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-452	Madam President, I would like Now the government has given the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency a very clear mandate to act against the spruce bark drills in nature conservation areas. And the Environmental Protection Agency has gone further than that. Cooperation has also been initiated with the municipalities, for the municipal nature reserves are, of course, nothing that the state controls. All municipalities in the country also need to be informed about the guidance provided by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. It's done, too. I don't think you have to be very afraid or worried about being next door to a nature reserve. It may well be that in a nature reserve there are many more of the 70 species that are enemies of spruce bark. For example, it takes quite large trees for one of the worst enemies of the spruce bark drill, the white-backed woodpecker, to thrive. If there are tree bark drills trying to get out of reserve, I think there will be a lot of kids for the white-backed woodpecker. Nevertheless, the efforts made by the government and by the Swedish Forest Agency, together with the authorities and forest owners, are extremely good to deal with the question of spruce bark. I do not think we should go to the top, because this shows a little bit of what I said in my speech: I get a little scared when it sounds like the representatives of the parties that run the issue in this way come from the city.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-455	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. A great deal could be said in this debate. I may not be able to say much in four minutes, but I will still touch a few things. Kristina Yngwe mentioned the report from the Swedish Forest Agency and the research community about a 20% increase in growth by 2050. I think it's very interesting. There you find something that many point to: Should there be the same care everywhere? No, the report shows that this can be achieved without compromising biodiversity and those values. Yet some in the environmental movement saw it. Then you think: What is their purpose? What I often bother with – and I would argue that it would be misconduct for me not to come here and say anything about it – is that their only purpose is to stop forestry, nothing else. I agree that we should of course be able to cope with biodiversity, but the reason why I am so passionate about forestry is because of the climate. If we do not have active forestry, it will not be able to benefit the climate that we all want to take. It's part of the solution. When I hear the arguments about the urban forest, I agree – absolutely! But when it spreads to the villages that there is someone who has managed their forest for two generations and then signatures are gathered here inside the customs to stop that felling has gone the wrong way. I agree that urban forests for recreation are important. However, this must not lead to attempts to destroy forestry in areas where this is the only chance of survival, at least for some. Gardfjell from Miljöpartiet lifted this with clean methods. There I begin to wonder a little bit who are city dwellers and who have lived in the forest and know about this. I would argue that I have seen which methods work and which do not. If we think you can eat the cake and keep it – a classic picture to use – it is unfortunately not possible. I agree that we can manage the forest in a different way. But I don't believe in going completely over to what you call a clean method– first of all, I can't understand what it would be – and I can't use bare-cut or wooded wood for boreal forests. We're going to have pine trees, which Isak From was on. It is also very important in southern Sweden. The land that is pine fields we will use for pine. If we are to succeed in replacing fossil building materials, we must try to influence what we grow on the ground. It's not about us not being able to have forests on it – we will certainly be able to do that – but what kind of forest are we getting out of it? This is important in order for us to succeed in the climate action we are discussing. Then I have to say something about some people flaunting that they are not in need of forestry. Then it is easy to say that you remove half of your forest from production. It scares me if there are a lot of forest owners who are not in need of forestry. They can leave it there for 150 years if that's the case, because they have other sources of income. But then we lose at the same time a raw material base that is important for the whole industry. It is not a good development either. Sometimes I actually wish we had stricter teams that said how to manage the forest and when to harvest. Then just so that no one will misunderstand me: It is clear that what is safe we should protect. But we're also going to handle it, which someone was in on. It's really important. Now I see my speaking time is running out. I could say a lot, but now it's the way it is.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-466	Madam President, I would like I find it horrifying that the Left Party has now begun to cooperate so closely with the Moderates. It is not least here in the forest debate that the Left Party has lost its green soul. From the Green Party we really think it is important that Sweden has forestry. It is an important export industry, and it is incredibly important for the climate change that we are facing being able to use the fossil-free raw material from the forest. But, of course, forests must be used in such a way that we do not run the risk of impairing biodiversity. It is a little strange that Mr Lahti mentioned in her speech that there would be problems with protecting forests, investing in biodiversity and investing in farming methods such as decent forestry. Last week I visited FSC, Forest Stewardship Council, which has its headquarters in Uppsala to listen a little bit to how they view forestry now and what new rules they have. One of the rules now introduced in forestry on a broad front is adapted management. 5 per cent of the area should be in adapted management, and this can be, for example, non-sensical practices. I wonder if the Left Party now completely saws the eco-labelling of Swedish forests and that forestry has to contribute.
i-B4F5iEtAVcCGExTjCsEia5	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Maria Gardfjell! I do not like it when a Member puts words in my mouth. I didn't say anything about us not protecting what's safe. On the contrary. But you put the words in my mouth and say that I have said that we should not protect more forest. I disagree. When it comes to FSC, I have myself worked with natural value assessments and made planning of FSC certified forestry. I know what that means. I know what the changes will mean, and I welcome them. It's not big. Then we shall leave a little more so that we can come up to 10% from the 5% that today is included in general considerations. With all the exceptions of border zones, it is easy to get to it, and it may be a little easier than some organisations that are loud in the debate. As for the fact that I would not understand this part of what it means by clean methods, I myself said in my speech that we do not need to manage all forests in the same way – but the Green Party has recommended that we move on to non-aggressive methods. That doesn't say anything. You're saying you're supposed to walk away from the mills, and then I'm saying that we're not going to fix having raw materials for the sawmills. Then it is something else that determines what we grow on our land, and then we will not fix it. But I'm just saying we don't have to have the same method everywhere. There are fertile forests that have mixed forests with precious leaves – absolutely, we can manage that. And those who have a high level of integrity, we can manage in a different way. But boreal pine forests intended for pine trees will not succeed if we do not have woodland use. We will have forest on them, absolutely, but then it is not we who choose what grows there. You have to be clear about that.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-475	Madam President, I would like I think it's good that Birger Lahti changes and moderates his image of what he's said, but I did hear at the beginning that you said both one and the other. It was very good that you moderated it. Perhaps you should also modify the profile that you seem to have of the Environmental Party's policy and forestry policy. What the Green Party believes is that we should have active forestry that will contribute to export revenue and that we should work in a more environmentally friendly way with many methods, including clean forestry. Hygges-free forestry needs to be more profitable for small foresters to use, for example through product development and further processing of certain types of products that do not exist today. I would like to come back to what I heard about FSC's new rules, which I think are very important, including the respect for reindeer husbandry. It now introduces a consent process that should be free and enlightened, and there should be a link to the reindeer management plans. There is a model for consultation, mediation and dispute resolution. Does Birger Lahti think that there may be something that will change and improve forestry in Norrbotten?
i-JaqYqrU6Gxp4qGuGbwN4tc	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for this line shift! First of all, when it comes to Gardfjell saying that the Left Party has begun to cooperate with the Moderates, I would like to remind you that before we stopped your chaos privatisation of the Employment Service, we had already done an eco-point program, and if you read it, you will see that we have felt as we have been doing about our forestry since long before then. So nothing has happened now, but this has been the position of the Left Party in forestry since before. As regards the new rules on reindeer husbandry, the obligation to consult applies to non-concession villages. This applies to the Sami villages, which are mountain villages. However, I really think it is good to have consultation obligations for all those affected by forestry and who have reindeer husbandry in their areas. I believe that this will make things easier, and I hope that there will also be a balanced discussion there, given everything that is happening now with regard to the Girjas case. They are certainly sensible, we will certainly get to the finish and then there will be a good debate on how forestry should be managed close to reindeer husbandry. If you think that you can completely ignore the practice of hordes and still have a good production flow for saws, you're too naive– Maria Gardfjell shakes her head– but I'm going to read your movements, because I think you're giving a picture of a complete transition to forestry without any woodland use. I think that means shooting yourself in the foot.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-482	May I just kindly remind all Members not to duke each other, but to use their first and last names and speak through the President.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-483	Madam President, I would like Initially, I'd like to express my regret that there aren't many of us here tonight, but the hour is late. Humanitarian aid, or emergency aid as it is also called, is at the heart of this aid. It is clean water, food and supplies for people in disaster. Development aid, on the other hand, is more long-term aid. This could involve helping countries to build functioning institutions and education or health systems. Development aid is the type of aid to help self-help, and humanitarian aid is aid aimed at preventing death and alleviating distress in disaster. But there is an increasing need for interaction between the two forms of aid. It is not always short-term emergency aid or long-term development aid that is needed without both or perhaps something in between. The global refugee crisis is an example of a situation in which the two forms of aid need to be more closely coordinated. As far as the interaction between humanitarian aid and development aid is concerned, it is fundamentally a matter of putting results in focus and ultimately ensuring that we use our resources optimally. The need for cooperation is in principle shared by everyone, and the government says that this is a priority. What are the conditions for collaboration? Yes, this has been reviewed by the Swedish National Audit Office, and today we are debating the Government's letter in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's review Sida's humanitarian aid and long-term development cooperation – conditions for collaboration. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that there are shortcomings in the conditions that the Government has provided to Sida and in Sida's internal governance, organisation and working methods that make it difficult to cooperate. For example, the government has not developed common objectives for the two forms of aid at the strategic level. The lack of common objectives contributes to maintaining the division between humanitarian aid and long-term development cooperation. The reason is that most of Sida's efforts are designed and financed in relation to the objectives of a specific strategy. This is how the agency's results should be reported to the government. For a greater impact on collaboration between the forms of aid, the Swedish National Audit Office highlights a number of recommendations on measures. These include common objectives at strategic level. It is also about ensuring that the technical possibilities available for co-financing and co-reporting operations can be used in the operations and ensuring that there are governance documents that specify how collaboration should be implemented in the operations. Madam President, I would like Given that these recommendations most likely lead to increased efficiency in Swedish aid, it is thought that the government will of course take into account and implement these recommendations, in any case any of them. But the government doesn't. Instead, the government refers to Sida already working systematically on this. The government's conclusion in the letter is that there is no reason for further governance. The government also writes that joint programming and co-financing have been deliberately excluded as it risks adversely affecting respect for humanitarian principles. Madam President, I would like Let me emphasise that inefficient coordination risks having a negative impact on the results of aid. Overall, the government says that this is a priority. At the same time, it is not prepared to take any of the measures recommended by the Swedish National Audit Office to make this work better. We think Moderates are wrong. If recommendations are received which are most likely to lead to more effective aid, they should be implemented. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-496	Madam President, I would like The Center Party elects in community by a large majority in the committee to add this letter from the National Audit Office to the file. That does not mean that the majority of the committee does not take to us what comes out of the letter. Large parts are well worth taking with them in the further work of tightening up, streamlining and improving Swedish aid. However, like the majority in the committee, the Center Party also sees that there are times when we should not have too harsh common objectives for humanitarian aid and development aid. There may be reasons not to put these together too hard. In other contexts, however, it is quite natural for the two forms of aid to interact with respect for humanitarian principles. In many cases, it is in fact the case that, from the date on which we begin an aid operation via humanitarian aid, the process of starting to work on development aid begins. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I would like to draw attention to some of the findings of the National Audit Office's report which I believe it is valuable for us to decide on Swedish aid to be with us in the future. It is about how those who work with Swedish aid on the ground in countries and regions feel that they do not have a full grasp of the strategies and objectives that should form the basis for their work and be included in everyday life. There is a risk when we want to develop and improve aid from the political side and from Sida's side that there will be so much goal and governance that it will be difficult to work after them. I believe that all those who have worked in a smaller or larger organisation can recognize themselves in this. It will be difficult to see that targets and strategies also have an impact on the ground. It is worth paying attention to this and to include it in the future. We should not forget why we are doing this. This is also not the only thing we are doing in terms of improving Swedish aid. For example, in the government agreement that forms the basis for the government's Löfven, there are some points about the focus and efficiency of the aid. I am not going to get too many words on this because it is not the subject of this evening's debate, and I have spoken warmly before in the speaker's chair why we should develop, streamline and not least focus aid on what Sweden can do best, to those areas where other countries are backing away and Sweden must remain and to what we think is most important in order to implement the objectives of Agenda 2030. I think it is important that, in tonight's debate, we also have with us that this is not the only way we follow up on this. It is important that we continue to review and review the Swedish aid and its effects in the seams and think about where the improvement points are. Madam President, I would like Thank you for the floor in this evening's debate.
i-UV54bE9sJJ9HGwAN1JibXc	Madam President, I would like The report deals with the Government's letter and the Swedish National Audit Office's review report on Sida's humanitarian aid and long-term development cooperation. In the report, the Swedish National Audit Office reviewed the government's governance and Sida's working methods regarding the collaboration between humanitarian aid and long-term development cooperation worked during the years 2015– 2017. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office's overall assessment is that the Government and Sida through their governance have made it clear that the collaboration between humanitarian aid and long-term development cooperation is a priority in Swedish aid. At the same time, the Swedish National Audit Office notes that there is no cooperation to the extent that could be possible. There is, for example, a lack of common objectives at the strategic level for humanitarian aid and long-term development cooperation. The Swedish National Audit Office estimates that both the Government and Sida can improve the collaboration between humanitarian and long-term aid. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats recommend that Sida develop a common strategy for humanitarian aid and long-term development cooperation, common goals and increased cooperation. This would make aid and Sida's efforts more effective, which would also contribute to better poverty reduction and sustainable development. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office believes that the lack of common objectives for the two forms of assistance also limits the conditions for co-financing and co-reporting. The Swedish National Audit Office's statement is important for the efficiency of operations, and therefore Sida should develop procedures for increased coordination in terms of funding and reporting of various interventions. Such a change in aid efforts will free up more resources for assistance in other areas. That humanitarian aid officers and those involved in the long-term development work have joint planning of operations where practicable is necessary and contributes to better results. Madam President, I would like It is important for Sida's management to develop a structure that makes it possible to co-finance and co-report various actions that are necessary for the credibility of the operations and not least the agency. Madam President, I would like Aid is part of Sweden's work for global development and poverty reduction. The Christian Democrats are convinced that the need for aid is great and that Sweden's efforts make a difference. We will continue to have 1% of GDP in aid and work for other countries to reach at least 0.7%. Millions of people live in oppression and misery, and we have a responsibility to help. It is about solidarity and humanity towards the needy. Our aid has helped to feed more people for the day, clean water, shelter, medicines, schooling and greater equality and democratic development in many countries. Madam President, I would like The need for relief is great and we will continue with our humane responsibility. However, it is important that aid funds are used effectively and that the efforts made contribute to meeting the objectives set.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-517	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed Sida's humanitarian aid and long-term development cooperation as well as the conditions for collaboration – or perhaps where. It is good that we in this House are discussing scrutiny and auditing of aid. Swedish aid is one of the best in the world, but for us to be even better we need monitoring and evaluation, among other things. It is the best way to build a robust system. Getting humanitarian work together with long-term development cooperation is extremely important. The former is important for saving lives and alleviating distress. Often there are short planning cycles. When something terrible happens, the medical and rescue personnel should be able to be in place. Stomach needs emergency feeding. These actors – humanitarian staff – must be independent. Humanitarian aid should reach those who need it most, regardless of who is affected. Politicians, governments and various stakeholders are far too often tricky and have an interest in giving one group more benefits than another. Emergency aid is vital, but it is quite different efforts that need to be made to resolve the conflicts and prevent relapse. The humanitarian system is under enormous pressure and can only provide assistance to those affected. But it cannot solve the root causes of the conflict. This is where long-term development cooperation comes in. Without peace there will be no development, and for that to happen a political solution is required. Madam President, I would like Sweden is working towards an increased focus on the link between long-term development and reducing humanitarian needs. This is done, among other things, through conflict prevention, recovery and increased resilience to humanitarian crises. The aim is to strengthen and develop synergies between the various activities, while maintaining respect for humanitarian principles. Then are we doing the right thing? In 2016, the World Humanitarian Summit was held in Istanbul. The effects of the commitments made at that time could not be seen immediately but rather gradually from 2017 onwards, i.e. after the period that the Swedish National Audit Office reviewed. Since then, many good things have happened. Last year, the OECD-DAC adopted guidelines on the interaction between humanitarian aid, long-term development cooperation and peace efforts. This is a valuable common framework. OECD-Dac's review of Swedish aid shows that Sweden has made progress in the work on the collaboration between humanitarian aid and long-term development cooperation. The review also shows that synergies between the two activities are actively sought and that it produces concrete results. Sida has developed forms of work to in a more systematic way create collaboration between humanitarian and long-term development cooperation. Since 2016, a number of changes have taken place at Sida, which allows synergies to be taken into account in a better way. Of course, it is of the utmost importance that the development that is now taking place is closely monitored. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I would like to say that what we are now discussing – the interconnection between humanitarian and long-term development cooperation – is both relevant and possible, even in places where conflicts are taking place. But the building of demolished societies takes time. This means that you have to have the long lines in front of your eyes. In war, there are no quick solutions, even when the peace agreement is signed. Both children and adults can be on the starvation line. Children give birth and become parents far too soon. The population is traumatized. Lack of livelihood, lack of opportunities and high poverty drive young people to flee. If you do not see any alternatives to another lifestyle, you are a simple victim of various armed groups. There's gotta be some help right away. But there must also be something that makes you see an opportunity to get out of your difficult situation and change your way of life. Opportunities to educate yourself, work, farm the land and eat measured is what Swedish aid should aim for – to give more people a future worth longing for.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-529	Madam President, I would like It cannot be overlooked that Janine Alm Ericson thinks these are important issues and that the government, as it says in the letter, prioritises the interaction between the two forms of aid. Nevertheless, Madam President, I must ask you a question. The Swedish National Audit Office comes here with fairly simple recommendations, which would most likely lead to more effective aid. There are a number of different recommendations, but the government chooses not to take into account one of them. My only question is, why?
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-531	Madam President, I would like As we can read in the letter and as I mentioned in my speech, this is a review carried out during the period 2015-2017. As I said, some things have happened since then. Among other things, agreements have been made in OECD-DAC to have more synergies and look at the long-term elements but also at the rapid humanitarian aid. The Moderates seem to be constantly ignoring how they themselves envisage safeguarding the independence of humanitarian aid. They also leave no answers in their reservations or here. This is an incredibly important principle. I would like to take this opportunity to ask Magdalena Schröder about it, given that I had no right to reply to her speech.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-533	Madam President, I would like It is strange that it always sounds like this: If you had only measured another period, the result would have been so much better. It is strange that it always sounds this way. However, I did not get an answer to my question. Madam President, I would like Among the people who work in the development industry, if you may say so, there is a great frustration that the systems do not sync with each other and that there are so many drain pipes. This cannot have escaped Janine Alm Ericson. There is indeed a demand for better collaboration. In the discussions I have had with people in the development industry, it is said that the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism is nuanced and justified. It is felt that the government does not take criticism seriously at all and that the talk about humanitarian principles is a lukewarm argument used only to sweep the problem under the carpet. Madam President, I would like My question to the Green Party is: are these people in the aid industry wrong?
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-537	Madam President, I would like I do not know which people in the aid industry Magdalena Schröder has spoken to. Those with whom I have spoken find it very problematic that the Moderates want to cut about 7 billion on aid. That is something that would have an immediate effect on the people on the ground, which is what this is all about. We can have theoretical discussions here about goals and other things. I think it is good that we agree that we want to increase cooperation in order to achieve a better outcome, but I also think that in the discussion we should think about those to whom aid should reach and the people affected by our decisions.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-539	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what measures I intend to take to prevent state-owned companies from contributing to unsound competition, whether I believe it is a government matter, for example, to hire cars, ground cutters and hand tools, and what state competence in this area cannot be met by the private market. The rental activity the questioner refers to is conducted by Arento AB, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Svevia AB. Arento provides Svevia and other construction and construction companies with construction machinery. In 2008, the then government proposed to transfer the activities of the Finnish Road Administration Production to a state-owned limited liability company. According to the Government, the activities of the new company should be to carry out construction, service and rental activities – directly or through subsidiaries – in the traffic, land, construction and related activities. It was argued, inter alia, that the conditions for competition neutrality in the market are increasing and that the grounds for suspicion of cross-subsidisation are eliminated. Svevia AB and other companies with state ownership are governed as well as privately owned limited companies on the basis of the Swedish Companies Act. Within the framework of the business orientation decided by the State as a shareholder, ultimately represented by the Riksdag, it is the company's board and management that is responsible for the company's organisation and management of its affairs. The Board of Directors and the management are responsible for the day-to-day management of the company's operational operations. Furthermore, questions of possible distortion of competition may be examined in the context of the anti-competitive public selling rules of the Competition Act.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-541	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the interpellation response. The Minister for Industry is the person appointed by Stefan Löfven to develop entrepreneurship in Sweden, safeguard the Swedish business environment and ensure that jobs are increased in more growing companies. I had a simple question for the Minister for Economic Affairs: does the Minister think it is a government matter to rent out cars, ground cutters, baajamajas, hand tools and a number of other products contained in the product portfolio in question, and what kind of competence does the State provide in this area that the private market cannot satisfy? I think it is obvious to all Swedish entrepreneurs who heard the Minister for Economic Affairs' interpellation answers that we did not get an answer to that question. Instead, we received an answer which referred to the fact that it was the then bourgeois government that registered the activity. It's true. It happened, just as the Minister for Economic Affairs says. However, I am quite convinced that this was done so that we could eventually spin off the company business, just as the alliance government did with, for example, the production of spirits. Of course, it is not a government matter to make spirits. What are the consequences, Madam President? Yes, at home in my constituency Gävleborg it has had devastating consequences for several small businesses. Since the establishment of this state-owned rental company, there has been a very aggressive pricing. We have been able to read in Dagens Industri about one of the companies in Söderhamn, a prosperous private company. It is a small businessman who works more or less 24 hours a day. I happen to know him. He's been working blood to get his company to walk around. And then the state company comes there. He immediately loses a number of stores. Among other things, it is about 40 cars that he had for car rental. Madam President, I would like I do not think this is reasonable. I do not think it is reasonable for hardworking small businessmen to have to say in newspaper articles in today's industry and in other contexts: we give up. We can't compete with the state. We don't have government money in our backs. We cannot rent out cars or other products as cheaply as the state-owned company does. A small business owner in Söderhamn says: It simply feels like a blow under the belt that someone who uses my tax money now comes here and tries to compete my business. I think it is reasonable that the Minister for Economic Affairs, the minister appointed by Stefan Löfven to improve the business environment and travel country and country around– I have noticed that the Minister travels with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Entrepreneurs on a regulatory simplification journey– relates to the fact that the entrepreneur in Söderhamn got his legs removed from his business because there came a state company that, according to the other companies in the industry, dumped prices with aggressive marketing and pricing. I would like the Minister to be able to answer only the simple question: does the Minister think it is a government matter to rent out cars, ground cutters, hand tools and baja-majas, and what is there in this area of needs that the private market cannot meet and which makes the Minister think that the state company should be responsible for renting out baja-majas?
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-547	Madam President, I would like I find this debate so interesting that I cannot help but participate in it. It is really an important, big and principled question: What should the state own and do? If you are to have state companies, there should be some form of given social benefit, where it is of particular importance that you have a company in state ownership. During the alliance years, we were quite careful to keep separate which companies are important to society and which companies operate in a competitive market and can therefore be appropriately disposed of by the state. For example, we made exceptions for Vattenfall, for we felt it was important for the state to own hydropower. We also thought it was appropriate for the ore assets in Kiruna to remain in government ownership, and therefore we kept LKAB in government ownership. But we sold, for example, a liquor factory and some other small things. I think this is a rather sensible and sensible balance. The aim of a state-owned company must never be to take market shares from private companies by competing them out, as you can do when you have the state in your back. Then it'll be a little unfortunate. Even in Arentos own annual report, it says that the company management wants to take on continued market shares in the private market. It therefore has a stated aim of competing out private companies. I do not think that can be the purpose of a state-owned company, at least not if you really want to be a government that cares about entrepreneurship, as the government often talks about. This is exactly the opposite. You put away the legs of small businessmen. Arento is establishing itself in more and more locations and is gradually competing out more and more private companies. That could never have been the point of this spin-off. When the Alliance budged off the company, of course, the intention was to sell it in the long term, not to grow and compete out private companies. I would also like to ask the Minister a few questions. Why does the Minister think it is so important that this state-owned company competes with private companies by renting out all the things that Lars Beckman listed? Why is it important for the government to have this company, and why is it important for it to be allowed to compete out private companies?
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-552	Madam President, I would like This is the case in this type of debate – I have seen this many times over the years, and I too can certainly have been guilty of it in opposition – that instead of listening to the answer, one tries to create polemics and does not hear what is in the answer. I would therefore ask you, Madam President, to repeat what I said in the reply. What was the reason why the moderate-led government, the majority government, formed this company? If I remember correctly, Jan Ericson was in Parliament. We were on the Transport Committee together. And I think Mr Beckman came in in 2010. My answer was as follows: and, as a reason for companyisation, it was argued, among other things, that the conditions for competition neutrality in the market are increasing and that the grounds for suspicion of cross-subsidisation are eliminated. This was the reason why this company was set up, and that is why it is still in the form it is in – that it becomes more competitively neutral and that it cannot be suspected that taxpayers' money goes into this in one way or another. The directive for the company was that it should be operated on a market-based, commercial basis. That is what the moderate-led government decided in 2008, and I know that the honourable Member, Mr Ericson, voted for this. Now I hear from Members that the aim would have been to spin the company off. It's just that from 2008 to 2014 it went six years without the moderate-led government doing anything, so I doubt it was that way. I also hear about distortions of competition. This company has never received any additions. Moreover, there are no plans to provide this type of contribution from the Treasury. In addition, we have strict rules on competition. We shall have that; I am the first to sign up as Minister of Industry. If there is any suspicion that companies, both private and public, are distorting competition in an unsympathetic way, we have a regulatory framework for this both in Sweden and in the European Union. Notifications can be made to the Competition Authority and, by extension, to the European Union in the case of State aid and other matters. This has not happened, despite these uplifts from the speaker's seat. Madam President, I would like We can and should have a discussion about what is appropriate for the state to own and not own. One might ask what is dominance and not. I note that the company we are talking about now, the subsidiary Arento, today has 4% of the market in which it operates. Is it much or little? Well, it all depends on what perspective you have. But I note that this company, with directives from this Parliament and with the support of the Moderates, is being conducted commercially and should also be conducted commercially. If there are points of view about distortions of competition, then we have a system for assessing this. We have competition authorities, and if we are talking about state aid, we have both our own authorities and the European Union. Madam President, I would like If this is such a big problem, I would like to ask Mr Beckman why he never did anything during the reign of his party.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-559	Madam President, I would like We have now heard the Minister for Economic Affairs talk about Moderate politics for four minutes. So do all the ministers these days-- they talk about everything except what we're debating. I also note, and it must be seen as remarkable, that we have a Minister of Industry who does not read today's industry. I recommend that magazine. It's full of business news. You can read about entrepreneurship in Sweden. I think it would be a good idea for the Government to devote a few minutes now and then to today's industry, not least the leadership side. If the Minister of Economic Affairs had read today's industry, he would have been able to read this: Prices are already so under pressure. So we can't do anything there. We just have to let new business go. We see no point in fighting the state in such a situation. This is what the out-of-court small businessman in Söderhamn says. I think it's really weird, that a government company can go out and compete and count home shops on rental cars and road signs. Would we also accept the state opening pizzerias and barbershops? It asks the same small business owner. I note that the Government does not respond with a sound to the question that probably hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs in Sweden are asking themselves. Many people are curious about the answer. Does the Minister think it is a government matter to rent out cars, ground cutters, hand tools and baja-majas? And what is the state's competence in this area that cannot be met by the private market? I think many people are curious about it, Madam President. It is possible to say yes, I think it is reasonable and I think it is unreasonable. Or you can talk about Moderate politics. But I'm interested in what the Minister for Economic Affairs thinks. What is the Minister of Economic Affairs' message to the two – there are really two – competing companies in Söderhamn? They had and have companies with employees, and so the state comes there and establishes itself with a rental company that dumps the prices so that the first thing that happens is that one company loses a deal of 40 cars. Then you can say: Yes, but perhaps there is an environmental benefit! Maybe there's something useful about Arento coming in. I've had the Parliamentary Investigation Service produce a report. In 2018, Arento had 2,872 vehicles in its car fleet, according to that report. Of the 2,872 cars, 121 had the possibility of electric drive. So there is no environmental benefit whatsoever. The state does not act as an example in any way. Otherwise it might have been a good thing – 40 electric cars in Söderhamn. Perhaps it would have been useful for this company to lay off employees. But even there isn't. I know that the Minister of Economic Affairs has travelled around the country on his simplification journey. What does the Minister of Economic Affairs think? I'm interested in that. Does the Minister think it is a government matter to rent out cars, ground cutters, hand tools, baja-majas and whatever products you have? Swedish entrepreneurs want to know that. Is it a government matter to rent out cars? And if it is a government matter to rent cars according to an environmental-partisan and social-democratic government, should this company take precedence in some way – for example, by renting out electric cars? Is there anything good for society with this state rental company? Swedish entrepreneurs and others want to know that.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-567	Madam President, I would like Yes, may I inform the Minister, I certainly voted in favour of the spin-off that was done – although I did not actually sit on the same committee as the Minister. Maybe we were sitting in each other's seats. The spin-off itself was no problem. There were good and rational reasons for doing it. The problem is that the company has become increasingly aggressive in its strategy of competing out private companies. It has emerged gradually, and now the situation is actually quite serious. Had it been so serious during the alliance years, I am convinced that the alliance government had acted appropriately, hopefully by selling the company so that it can operate on the same terms. The Minister is talking about marketability. I think it can be discussed. When companies – several in different places – testify that Arento takes orders through under-pricing, pricing that simply cannot be counted together or counted home, that is something that is not right. Then I can say that the Minister is blaming himself as usual. As I said, it's the government's new mantra. We've heard the Prime Minister say that LAS caused the rapes. We have heard that the job tax deduction caused juvenile delinquency. Now we have also heard that the 2008 decision of the Alliance is the reason why today's government is allowing state-owned companies to compete out private companies. After all, at some point this government must take responsibility for today's problems and today's policy. It may well be that decisions have been taken in the past by previous governments, both the alliance government and earlier than that. But reality changes and things change in society, and then it is today's government that has to deal with today's problems. Sometimes you wonder if the RUT deduction is also the cause of the Corona virus.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-573	Madam President, I would like It is surely part of modern politics that one pretends that someone else has said something it has not said because it fits one's own line of argument. My view, which I have been asked several times and tried to express, is exactly the same as that of the previous moderate-led government. I even suspect that we voted the same at that time, and it is against this background that I repeat that it is this Parliament that decides how the companies are governed in the specific case of Svevia and the subsidiary Arento. This Parliament has, with our common voices – we have had and have the same opinion – decided that they should be run commercially. We make demands on returns in the companies – here we have no community mission – and they will compete on the same terms as others. So we have not contributed, nor are we planning to add any tax money, as Lars Beckman indicated before. If you consider that this has happened in a company, whether it is a private company or a state or municipally owned company, i.e. a public company, you are making a complaint to the competition authority. I have checked for any such notification before this debate. In that case, it should be handled according to the order we have; there is a fairly clear legal order for this. But I couldn't find anyone. Companies and private individuals are free to make such a notification so that the competition authorities can review this and ensure that the rules are complied with. In this way, I think these two moderate Members are going a little wrong if they think we should make decisions on the basis of headlines in individual newspapers. There is a system for eliminating competition. That arrangement applies to all, and it shall also apply. Furthermore, if there are suspicions of unfair state aid, there is a European regime, which is used by and for. I believe that, if there are problems, we have an order for this. It is the same order that has been in place under all governments. Madam President, I would like I know there's an ideological difference between us. The Moderates have now – it was not so in Reinfeldt's time – taken a stance that means that you want to sell out government activities, almost no matter which one. It is clear that there can sometimes be pragmatic reasons for this: there is no need for the State to carry out certain activities. Sometimes there may be very good reasons for the state to operate. We heard earlier about the energy sector, and there are certainly a number of other areas in the area of infrastructure where we can also agree on this. I can assure Members: although we were – and I suspect that the parties are still – in agreement on what exactly the order of Svevia would look like – I can be quite clear that the Social Democratic-led government will never sell out taxpayers' property. We shall, of course, ensure that this is pursued pragmatically. We will make demands on sustainability and example. If anyone breaks the rules and there is unfair competition, there is a system of notification to competition authorities and ultimately to the European Union.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-578	Madam President, I would like There are many societal challenges in Sweden right now. The sharp increase in crime against private companies is one. The companies show that it is almost pointless to report burglary or theft of diesel because the clearance rate is so low. The skills demonstrations are another major concern for the business community. Valuable employees are expelled due to minor errors – employees needed in the individual company. Another concern is that it is difficult to find the right skilled workforce. Major efforts are needed to improve matching of job seekers with individual companies and to improve vocational training. However, Madam President, I have never come across a company which believes that there is a lack of competition in the leasing of ground cutters, drilling machines, baja-majas, cars or whatever it is. On the contrary, the state – and I am not ashamed to say it – should be the sole guardian of its role. The state should set the rules and conditions for the private business sector but should not, of course, compete out of it. I would like to recommend the Minister for Economic Affairs to go to Söderhamn. Look into the eyes of the two entrepreneurs who have now seen the big business lost and say: I am proud Social Democrats– this is how I think the state should run business. Look the small businessmen in the eye and say that what is happening right now is right and right! It's not. As politicians, I do not think it is wrong to be able to change, develop their policies or manage their activities if something happens that you do not think is reasonable. That the state acts in this way is not reasonable, Madam President. Thank you for the debate this late evening.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-585	Madam President, I would like This is really trying to polemise on an issue where I think we are basically in agreement. If competition is eliminated, for whatever reason, we have a system for this, Lars Beckman. That has been the case under previous governments, and that is the case today. I would recommend entrepreneurs, regardless of the industry, who know or suspect that it is so to do so. Then you get a proper review and don't have to go by headlines in the papers. I think that, regardless of government, is a rather bad way of conducting politics. Madam President, I would like There are many challenges. Sweden has in many ways a fantastic business environment. This is reflected in the comparisons made with many other countries. It is no coincidence that in almost all measurements Sweden is among the top ten in the world when it comes to business climate. This, of course, does not mean that we should settle down, on the contrary. Many of the questions raised by Lars Beckman are real. One of the most difficult may be the supply of skills. The employment rate in many parts of our country has been so high that this is perhaps one of the major problems of growing. Reviewing the rules makes one thing easier. Reviewing the application of the rules is another matter. The fact that we are hooking arms with our business community and trying to become strong even when it comes to exports is a third thing. The fact that we are now looking at how to strengthen research, development and innovation in our country is a fourth. So there are challenges. Of course, we will continue to deal with them, preferably together with the business community. We should also have clear rules. If anyone feels that those rules are not being followed, there is a system to report and get this investigated so that it is done in a fair way.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-591	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me whether I and the government intend to work to identify the effectiveness and results of public aid and whether I believe that the government should reduce the appropriations involved. Tobias Andersson asks his questions in connection with two studies from Growth Analysis, one from 2014 and the other from 2015, which concluded that many authorities have been involved in the administration of the support and that two programmes at Vinnova have not been able to demonstrate statistically certain effects based on certain indicators. I would like to start by reminding you that Sweden is ranked as one of the world's leading innovation countries. For example, in the European Innovation Scoreboard, Sweden has ranked a maximum of four years in a row. Sweden is also often contacted by other countries who want to learn from our innovation system. Having said that, we also need to constantly improve on both different types of public intervention in order to meet new challenges and our methods of evaluating the benefits of the efforts. It is the industry's innovation power, efficiency and high knowledge content that make Sweden an internationally competitive economy. The conditions for business must therefore constantly develop and improve so that Sweden can continue to be a successful welfare economy. The government has recently initiated a number of measures. Among other things, Growth Analysis has been tasked with developing proposals for improved evaluation methods for nutrition policy, which was finalized in 2018. This, in turn, has led to a development work that is now under way within the Government Office.
i-BnAiDBDJXXzFwPcTYayZxq	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan, for your answer! Various forms of public support to the business community have long been an established part of Swedish innovation and growth policy. Tax funds that could have gone to hiring more police officers, nurses and teachers are instead distributed to various authorities and state companies in a sometimes naive hope that these in turn will be able to promote Swedish innovation capacity and growth. A friend of a market economy could have pointed out that there is a risk that these funds will not be allocated optimally when the State directly or indirectly accounts for the distribution. A friend of competition neutrality could have wished that the State did not compete with private venture capital in the free market. A friend of tax protection could have gone so far as to say that these tax revenues would instead have been left with those who brought them in. In this way, the market itself had had to control their future position. Having said that, I would like to acknowledge that the Swedish democrats in no way believe that all public support for business is evil. There may, of course, be a need for market complementarities, not least in smaller business-optimal parts of the country. For us, the key thing is that public support really generates added value and does not distort the market by competing out private operators or keeping inefficient and unprofitable companies alive at the expense of taxpayers. With this approach, we therefore find it problematic that public support seems to be increasing without, to date, being able to prove that a clear added value is generated and that efficiency and good follow-up characterise the activities. In my interpellation text, I quoted a review by the Innovation Agency Vinnova, conducted by Growth Analysis. The quote was as follows: . Similar observations have been made in a variety of analyses and reports. Anders Gustafsson's doctoral thesis in four parts shows that companies that receive government grants showed increased profits and increased productivity but that this is only short-term. In the long term, no effects can be seen at all. Moreover, his theory is that the less productive a company is, the more support is sought, because the alternative cost is lower. In the article, three researchers examined state innovation support for SMEs– do they have any effect? Two selective business grants from Vinnova. They wrote the following in their findings:- We cannot therefore reject the hypothesis that Win now and Forska & Väx have no effect on the number of employees in the beneficiary companies after the end of the aid period. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I choose to stay there. It is my strong opinion that the empirical evidence speaks clearly. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs therefore remains whether he believes that there is reason to reduce the appropriations involved or at least to further examine their impact and results.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-604	Madam President, I would like It was unexpected that Tobias Andersson and the Swedish Democrats would come out as neo-liberals in economic policy. It is often in the case of neoliberals that you find this belief that if you just leave everything to the market, it will work out. I do not share that view. We shall have a market economy, but especially for a small, export-dependent country that is highly competitive, there are very good reasons for working closely with academia as well as with private industry. To tell you the truth, I believe that this is one of the strongest reasons why Sweden, when measured internationally, comes out so strongly in comparison with many other countries. This applies to both the business environment and innovation. The truth is that Sweden will never be able to compete with volumes. We are 10 million inhabitants. We have a market which, in itself, cannot bear the kind of global companies that have emerged in our country. Let me give you an example: Volvo Trucks. It is a fantastic company with its registered office in Gothenburg. It employs a great many people. There we work together on innovation and development, for example when it comes to electrification of trucks. Why do we do that? Well, Tobias Andersson, the vast majority understand that especially in a situation where new innovations need to be developed, there are costs for research, development and innovation associated with this. If you as an entrepreneur are going to take all the costs yourself – especially if you are going to be a forerunner, as we in Sweden want to be in order to strengthen our competitiveness – your competitiveness risks being knocked out. In the Volvo case, we are talking about a company that exports 98% of everything they manufacture in our country. Why? Well, our market is far too small. The volumes demanded in this country are far too small for such large companies. Yet they have grown up. Why? I would no doubt say that it is because from the outset, especially when they were small and innovative, they have worked closely with the public. This should reasonably also be understood by Tobias Andersson and the Swedish Democrats. Everyone knows about the collaborations between Volvo and FMV or between Ericsson-L. M. Ericsson, as it was then called – and Telia. These are just a few examples of how this has started and then developed into large, global companies that not only generate very good export revenues but also employ tens of thousands of people. Then I ask, are we doing enough? I'd say no. I'd like to do even more. What Tobias Andersson is doing now I think is a big mistake. It's like shooting yourself in the foot to put the employment of policemen against business development, innovation and growth. After all, our tax revenue comes from the growth of our economy, the production, employment and export of our companies. That is where the tax funds basically come from. If you make the mistake of withdrawing the resources that will enable us to do so for the future, it will mean that we will be poorer. There will be fewer employees and less money for research and development. The withdrawal of investment in research, innovation and development – this is what the money goes to – leads to us becoming poorer. There will be fewer police officers, fewer teachers and fewer nurses.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-612	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for your answer, Minister for Economic Affairs. In fact, the Minister for Industry is not responding to the criticism that I am highlighting. The empirical evidence that I have presented here is not in line with the reality picture that Ibrahim Baylan represents in the speaker's chair. When several of the aid measures concerned against control groups have been examined, it has not been possible to see that they have generated any increased innovation or growth. Then it is naive to stick to the fact that it is still good policy. Then I think that there is, in fact, reason to consider reviewing this. Having said that, I do not feel that the government has acted sufficiently on this issue. In my first speech, I referred to a number of studies that have pointed out existing shortcomings. In addition, in his written reply, the Minister for Economic Affairs himself referred to a report from Growth Analysis, which in 2018 proposed the following: Such a survey can be a valuable tool to identify, among other things, overlaps of industrial policy interventions, and to explain how the different interventions relate to each other. ..................................................... Despite all this, the Minister for Economic Affairs can only point out that it has led to a development work that is now under way within the Government Office. Madam President, I would like The Minister for Industry is welcome to explain in more detail the above-mentioned development work. So far, the Minister for Economic Affairs has not been able to refute my thesis and that of others that part of the public enterprise support is misdirected and ineffective or have been able to assure me that the government is now reviewing and remedying the identified shortcomings. Madam President, I would like When the main focus of this interpellation is on the innovation agency Vinnova, I would like to mention some of the projects that they have funded that are currently ongoing: 400 000 SEK is awarded to Mustard AB for the project Increased equality and gender equality in subletting. The aim is to create an understanding of what conditions are required in the secondary market for people who do not belong to the norm.
i-9sxUmhBNs1roEXpT2pcF3h	SEK 1,919 000 is awarded to SCA Skog AB for projects on norm-critical innovation for increased gender equality and attractiveness. The goal is to transform gender stereotyping concepts of gender, competence and work. Mälardalen University is awarded 2.5 million for Norm-conscious rooms for play and learning in preschool. The goal is to rebuild preschools so that they promote and support children's diverse play and learning and are free from norms that limit. Stockholm University is awarded nearly SEK 2 million for the implementation of a model for diversity and inclusion. Madam President, I would like If it has not emerged, my point is that these projects cannot possibly be considered to strengthen Swedish innovation capacity. It is directly impossible for me to understand why innovation as a motive should waste money on projects like these. The Minister for Industry himself was concerned about the importance of investing in innovation and more. Then the question is why you waste money on projects that obviously do not generate any kind of innovation or growth. Madam President, I would like My question to Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan is whether he finds it reasonable and justifiable that Swedish taxpayers should finance projects like these with alleged motives for innovation.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-622	Madam President, I would like Let me be clear about my general approach. I never think we will be so good that we can settle down and say: Now nothing needs to be done. It concerns the tools we use and the rules we have. I believe that we must constantly review and analyse. Reference is made to analyses from Growth Analysis. It is an authority that we assign to analyse and come up with proposals, and we continuously process those proposals to ensure that our tools are sharpened. That is, I believe, a wise way of using our limited resources. It is also about closing things that do not work and strengthening what is obviously beneficial for the development of our country. Now Tobias Andersson chooses to develop a number of issues related to gender equality and diversity. As a minister, I do not have the opportunity to go into individual cases – Tobias Andersson knows that well. In general, let me say this: It is well known, both in Sweden and internationally, that if you are to have innovation, dynamism and creativity, it is good to have very mixed environments with women and men. That is why Sweden, I believe, claims to be very well. Sweden is a small country where we constantly need to think new. It is also a fact that Sweden, although we are not equal, has gone further than many other countries in terms of gender equality and taking advantage of the power of both men and women. In the same way, it is well established, both in nature and among people, that diversity is good for creativity. We develop if we have different experiences and meet with those experiences. Madam President, I would like It is well known that the Swedish Democrats have a completely different view of gender equality and diversity – it is well documented. Here in Parliament, the Swedish Democrats have exercised that they should try to roll back many of the progress that has been made over the past few decades in terms of gender equality, for example. I do not share that view. Why, then, is Vinnova concerned with these kinds of questions? They do so for a very simple reason. It is often thought that innovation is technology development and new business models. But it's also about policy development. Let me take an example of which Tobias Andersson himself was concerned: the forest. We know today that this is a very male-dominated sector. We also know that it is a sector which, like many others, has great concerns in terms of the supply of skills and human resources. If we can help together to bring about changes that will make more women go to that sector, it is clear that this is for the benefit of that industry. This is something that industry in industry realises, but obviously not the Swedish Democrats. They remain in some old image that gender equality is not to be seen as a help for economic growth, for dynamism and for innovation. I do not share that view. As a minister, as I said, I cannot go into individual cases, but I think that we are completely wrong if we believe that diversity and equality are detrimental to our business community. We are strong in this country when it comes to our innovation power, compared to what it is like in many other countries, precisely because of what I have mentioned.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-628	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for the reply from the Minister for Economic Affairs. I would like to believe that gender equality can be protected and promoted, while it seems to me that it is directly unreasonable for the state's innovation authority to run projects on norm-creative architecture or interfere in the way children play in preschools. I would like to think that one can be in favour of equality and oppose the state spending money on this in some form of disguised innovation policy. I do not yet feel that the Minister for Economic Affairs has found the courage to emphasise clearly in this House the need for a proper review of public support for business. Even less has the Minister of Economic Affairs acknowledged that there are good reasons, given, among other things, the basis I previously referred to in this interpellation debate, to consider cuts in this type of government activity. In my first speech, I referred to Anders Gustafsson's doctoral thesis. In it he tries to analyse why there are different types of policy measures that are too rarely particularly effective. Gustafsson's somewhat gloomy answer in this context is that politicians want to show action and that the action itself can be more important than the effectiveness of the action. Madam President, I would like I fear that this is the case, and the Minister for Economic Affairs has not been able to respond to it or prove otherwise.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-632	Madam President, I would like It is very strange to be accused of not wanting to analyse when it is then referred to a number of analyses made by an authority that is directly under the Ministry of Industry and therefore also me as Minister of Economic Affairs. Growth analysis does these analyses on behalf of us. It's not good enough just to do analyses. The result must also be used. That's exactly what I said in my interpellation response. Based on this, we see how we can streamline our way of working. Sweden claims very well. Sweden is number one in the EU when the Commission goes through innovation in the European Union. Globally, we almost always end up in the top ten, usually in the upper half. Even if it is, it is always a danger, especially for a small country, to settle down. We won't. I also think it's a mistake to think that everything will be all right if you leave this alone. If you know the history of Sweden, you know how it has been for many of the big Swedish companies that today dominate their markets, as I proudly see, not least when it comes to constantly finding new innovative ways of doing things. They have been created through entrepreneurs who have often received their first collaborations and their first orders via the public. Here, I believe, is the key to many of the challenges and problems but also opportunities that we see in a world where climate change requires us to do things again and digitalisation creates a lot of new opportunities. So there are a lot of reasons to continue working together, and I intend to do so as Minister of Economic Affairs.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-637	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked me, among other things, whether there is a need to change the current way of participating in European democracy and whether citizens' panels should have a stronger democratic base than those proposed by parliamentarians. I believe that elected parliaments elected in general elections are the way to channel the will of the people that has the highest legitimacy in European democracy. The Commission has proposed that the Conference of the Future use dialogues directly with citizens to share their views on the development of the EU. I welcome this, but I do not see these civil dialogues as a way of changing the foundations of how our democracy is exercised, but rather as one of several ways in which citizens can speak. It is a democratic right, and it is urgent, that all citizens have the opportunity to participate in and can influence political decision-making also between the elections. It's nothing new. It should be in everyone's interest, not least our political parties, to create the conditions for a more lively debate on European policy. Madam President, I would like The government is working on a long-term basis to improve citizens' opportunities to participate in EU work. These include increasing knowledge of how the EU works, making information available on EU work and dialogue with various social actors on decisions taken at European level. If the Conference of the Future can help involve citizens, not least young people, in the public dialogue on European issues, that is basically a good thing. Also at EU level, both the Commission and the European Parliament are doing much to capture ideas and ideas directly from those affected by different types of proposals. Public consultations, seminars and debates in the Member States to which the public is invited are some such examples. During the government's discussion with the Foreign Affairs Committee at the end of January on the conference, the government received broad support for its positions, and the majority of the committee expressed the fact that the initiative was fundamentally good. Citizens will be invited to participate actively, but it is the parliaments and elected party representatives who ultimately represent the citizens in political decision-making. The Conference of the Future cannot and should not upset that basic order. This is something that I also brought to the January meeting of the General Affairs Council. Different types of dialogue on EU issues are therefore not a new idea. They have been around for a long time, and they are important, as ways to capture ideas and ideas and thus contribute to a more prosperous democracy. They are therefore to be seen as a complement to representative democracy. The government wants to see the implementation of the strategic agenda as the focus of discussions during the future conference. At the same time, of course, other issues, which are not covered by that agenda, can also come up for discussion in the Citizens' Dialogues. Before the Agenda was adopted, it was preceded by extensive discussions with civil society and stakeholders. My assessment is that it reflects issues that are important for our citizens. It is about respect for the rule of law and democracy, creating jobs and strengthening the economy, stopping climate change and standing up for Europe's interests in world politics. On the last question of how all the groups in the European Parliament will have an influence on how the conference is to be conducted, I would just like to say that it is not for me as EU Minister to have views on how the European Parliament designs its internal consultation procedures.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-648	Madam President, I would like Europe Day on 9 May will therefore be the start of the so-called conference on the future of the European Union, which aims to address the Union's famous democratic deficit. The focus will be on you, the ordinary EU citizen. You will be able to speak through specially selected citizens' panels, among other things. Your friends with lukewarm political interest will be attracted by mixing politics into sporting events and festivals. Your views will be translated into concrete legislation. The democratic deficit is a reality; it is absolutely so. We will be behind every attempt to tackle it, and we therefore have a couple of honest thoughts about how this is to be done. Firstly, there is no in-depth definition of problems. The core of the conference is a new form of participation, which naturally leads to the question of what is wrong with the current way of participating. After all, we have just had an election to the European Parliament with a record level of participation. Less than a year later, turning once again to the electorate for guidance can rightly be seen as a sign of weak leadership. Moreover, there is no opinion poll indicating that this is something that European citizens want to participate in at all. Nor does the Commission explain why proposals from a citizens' panel would have a stronger democratic base than proposals from national parliaments. If the aim is to give public representatives the opportunity to initiate legislative proposals within the EU, it would be a natural first step, on the one hand, to give the right of initiative to elected representatives in national parliaments – that is not what we have today – and, on the other hand, to transfer competence from the Union to national parliaments. Secondly, there is no risk analysis. Citizens' panels are at risk of being a distorted selection, as already politically active people tend to be more involved. Moreover, this can lead to disappointment when popular opinions are not translated into action. Above all, there is a great risk that too much Europe for a long time will make citizens tired and stop listening. I know it's hard to imagine for people like Hans Dahlgren and me that there are ordinary people out there who don't spend all day thinking about politics. But that is actually the case, and this is a risk that needs to be taken into account. The question is also, which is at the heart of it, the practical significance of these citizens' panels. The government puts it this way: a future conference's civil dialogues should be a tool for the Commission to provide further support for and anchor the best implementation of the priorities of the strategic agenda. ..................................................... The wording indicates that the aim is rather to bless the previously decided agenda with a fernissa of popular affection. A further sign that the real purpose is not openly stated is that a majority of the European Parliament, composed of Social Democrats and Liberals, decided to exclude the four other groups and the independence from any influence on how the conference is to be conducted. After all, the Minister of the European Union must see a certain irony in the fact that a conference aimed at increasing popular influence starts by excluding 40% of voters from influence. Although this is not on the table of the EU minister, there is a certain irony here, and I am sure he sees that. I therefore have a few fairly simple questions: how will the Swedish Government act if citizens' panels show that the population of a particular Member State absolutely does not want to receive more migrants? Will we then use it to stop pushing other Member States to do this? Why is a new form of participation needed? What is the problem with the current form of participation? In what way does the Government believe that a citizens' panel is more democratic in relation to, for example, an announcement from the Swedish Parliament?
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-662	Madam President, I would like I would first like to comment on some of the points made by the interpeller in his introduction before I come to the concrete issues. This is not a way of changing the way we make decisions in the European Union. This is one way to make those decisions more legitimate. It is a way of listening better to what citizens who are affected by the decisions of the Union feel about the issues on the agenda. It is not just a matter of looking for guidance to endow the strategic agenda as such. It is democratic in the European Council. What it is about is that when the very general principles contained in the strategic agenda are to be implemented in practice, it is not so bad to also listen to all those involved in the implementation of the agenda before taking the concrete decisions. But decision-making remains. We on the part of the government have no reason to ask or wish for a change in the order of decision-making in the European Union. We do not want a change in the skills balance. We do not want any Treaty changes to be introduced in connection with the conference. We do not want to start to work with top candidates and transnational lists, as many others wish, but we think that the order we have should be maintained. So to Ludvig Aspling's questions. Of course, the fact that a citizens' panel in a country would have a certain dedicated opinion on a particular matter is not what will determine what position the Swedish Government should take on this matter. We're open to listen to everyone. We also listen to opinions that we do not agree with on fundamental issues. We reserve the right, when representing Sweden in the Council of Ministers, to present, after consulting the EU Board, the views that we think are correct, regardless of what can come in any individual Member State as a strong opinion. But it is not stupid and wrong to have an open ear throughout this process also to countries where we do not share our views on fundamental issues. We can deal with issues of refugee reception and the independence of the rule of law. I have had great pleasure in discussing with my colleagues both in Hungary and in Poland about quite fundamental differences of opinion. It has helped me to understand how the reasoning goes in those countries. That is why I think that transparency to listen to others in order to improve decisions is not so bad. I do not think it is a good idea that national parliaments should have the right of initiative vis-à-vis the Commission. It is a proposal that has been tried before. It was called green cards. I believe that Parliament has dealt with this issue and has come to the conclusion that it does not wish to engage in this kind of direct dialogue with the Commission. Finally, I do not want to compare the influence of different organisations. Citizens' panels can channel interesting and important views on the issues to be discussed. But again: the order of decision we have we do not want to change. There is no question of changing the division of competences.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-671	Madam President, I would like I'm a little reassured by what the government says here. Hans Dahlgren repeats time and again that we should not mess up the order that is now in force. The citizens' panels become a forum for debate a bit like ordinary political debates in society in general. They should not have any special status. It's a bit like the way I interpret what the Government says. But that is not what the communication on the future of the Commission says, which came from Mr von der Leyen. That Communication stated that the views of European citizens should be translated into concrete proposals. There's something else. It is obvious that von der Leyen and Hans Dahlgren disagree. They don't have to be. What I was thinking about here is that the conference will be planned in a sjok. It will not be the case that the Swedish Government has one conference and then the Commission has another. It's a conference you're supposed to have. The citizens' panels may even follow a certain format. They may even be financed according to a common model. Mr von der Leyen says one thing, and the Government says: That is absolutely not the case. Who's right? Where does schism come from? Who's not really telling the truth? I'd like to know. As far as openness to listen to others is concerned, I absolutely agree. There's nothing negative to say about that. We are, of course, in favour of having an open and honest discussion. But it doesn't really have to do with this. Nevertheless, there is a fairly open and honest debate on European issues in society in general. If you are interested in knowing what citizens think, you can use opinion polls. One might even use a referendum from time to time, even though the appetite for it is now limited. I don't know if the citizens' panels are such an appropriate tool. As I said from the outset, the risk is obvious that they will be made up of people who are already very committed politically. They tend to have certain opinions, while people who may not be as involved have different opinions. It can cause a distortion. That is why I think the tool is not quite appropriate. I would say that I am still a little worried about how it will end. I'm old enough to remember the last time you had a big conference where you would think about the future. Some people had a Treaty of Lisbon that has revolutionised EU cooperation fundamentally. There is a suspicion not only from me but from many people who see this from the outside that the real purpose here is to arrive at a Treaty reform that will transfer power from the Member States to Brussels. That is what happens every time we have a major treaty reform. I would therefore like to ask the Government whether he can guarantee us here in the Swedish Parliament that his government will block such a treaty reform proposal if it should come to the table.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-681	Madam President, I would like Thank you for those questions from the interpellier! I would first like to say something about Mrs von der Leyen's opinion that citizens' views should be translated into practical proposals. It is clear that it is a natural part of the process that we see before us. The usual decision-making process in the Union is that we have proposals from the part of the institutions that has the exclusive right of initiative, namely the Commission. It is no wonder that it listens to what citizens' opinions are. On the contrary, we wish that more could be done. It will then be translated into practical proposals. This does not mean that the Commission is bound to present the very proposals of a particular group of citizens at a certain time. But there is a connection here, and it is a continuous order of views that emerges from the public's dialogues or when one listens to perceptions in different countries. The fact that there will eventually be practical proposals for this is no wonder. It is not that any of us speak untruth, but it is a natural form. Then Ludvig Aspling questions, as I see it, whether there is really interest in our citizens in doing more and making more points of view. Is it not enough to be active in the general and European elections? In fact, I think there is a greater interest. I have only been a minister of the European Union for a year. But I've been around some parts of the country talking in that capacity. I have not only been to schools but also to workplaces and association gatherings. It is a very active interest to learn more about not just institutions. They don't care much about that. It's about the issues. What kind of policy do we want to pursue and can we pursue within the Union? I think the answer to that question is: yes, there is such an interest. Then there is the question of Treaty changes. No, we do not want the conference to discuss Treaty changes. We do not want a shift in competence in our treaty. We do not want us to introduce the ystem and transnational lists of top candidates. I cannot, of course, take a position today, this evening, on any prospective draft treaty that may come at some point in the future. But this is the direction that we want to see for the conference, and we stand by it.
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-689	Madam President, I would like As far as the question of interest is concerned, there can certainly be questions of substance. But let me be perfectly honest and say that I thought it was nice when the EU election movement was over, and I think the Government agrees with that. I also think that many voters thought it was nice when they put the vote in the ballot box. Okay, now I've been following this for a few weeks. I've put myself in as best I can. Now I've made my choice. Now I want to get out of this for a while and think about other things instead. I think you should be careful about trying to push too much Europe on people. In fact, people tend to stop listening. I'm absolutely convinced of that. As far as the precise functioning of the citizens' panels is concerned, nothing has been decided. The exact way it will work is not something that neither the Government nor I can know. We are talking about a new form of participation. It is not participation that is at issue. It might be a new form of consultation, or something like that. When you talk about participation, when you participate in democracy, you go and vote. That's how most people perceive it. And I think what you do when you go out with a message like this is that you promise more than you can keep. There is an obvious risk of promising much more than one can keep and that it will lead to disappointment when EU citizens realise that it is business as usual and that their views will not be translated into actual political activities – unfortunately. I have one last brief question about how the conference is to be organised. I understand that it is not on Hans Dahlgren's table to rule over Parliament's internal affairs, but does Mr Dahlgren not agree that it would be better to have a wider selection of parties from the European Parliament who could be involved in the conference?
i-99689e2046aa7ce1-696	Madam President, I would like I think I will refrain from commenting on the very last question. Nevertheless, I would like to agree with Ludvig Aspling on the attempt not to promise more than one can keep. I think it is a very good rule of life in general, and also in this case. We should not paint this as anything but what it is: a way of getting better contact with the citizens and of getting better involvement and participation in the debate about shaping the EU's decisions for the future. I think that the conference can lead us to that. I do not think there is any danger that we are pushing European issues. On the contrary, I think that we are very happy to talk more about these issues, because they are more crucial for our citizens than most people might realise. I think we have a lot to gain from having a broader and more lively debate on European issues. I am very pleased that this autumn we had the opportunity of a declaration by the Prime Minister on European issues and the debate at party leadership level that followed it. I think it was a good initiative, and I believe that the conference that is to be held can also contribute to a discussion in our country and in all other EU countries that can be of benefit to our common objectives.
