i-bdb929557dbeaaae-4	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for our reservation to be approved. We Social Democrats note, like the majority, that the spread of the virus causing the disease covid-19 has had a major impact on our society as a whole. The economic impact is evident for both large and small companies. A number of measures have already been taken by both the government and the parliament to mitigate the negative economic effects of the ongoing pandemic. Continued appropriate measures will also be needed in the future. The question of extending time to a second balance sheet and reviewing personal liability in limited liability companies, linked to the situation we are in today, is complex and difficult. We cannot see that such a review is an appropriate measure at the moment. At first glance, it may sound obvious to give entrepreneurs who want to continue running their business but who have had problems during the crisis respite. But unfortunately, it's not that simple. As stated in the report, the regulation in the Companies Act on share capital and the personal liability of company representatives fills the function of creditor protection and as a barrier to unconsidered and unserious entrepreneurship. Regulation can also help to combat economic crime. The legal framework is there for both debtors and creditors. It is as much about dealing with the bankrupt company as it is about dealing with the creditors' legitimate interests. By prioritising the bankrupt company, as proposed by the notice, other companies are at risk of being affected. It can cause unwanted spill-over effects in other companies, and it can eliminate normal payment procedures. There is a high risk that companies will start demanding advance and cash payments in order to secure payments. The objectives of the regulation have also been clearly highlighted by the authorities that have provided information on the matter, i.e. the Swedish Companies Registration Office, the Swedish Economic Crime Authority, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Enforcement Authority. In particular, it is argued that the requirement to draw up a balance sheet when there is reason to believe that the company's own capital is less than half of the registered share capital may be decisive for company representatives to have a realistic picture of the company's financial position. According to the authorities, an extension of the time limits may result in company representatives continuing to operate loss-making activities for too long at the expense of creditors. In the course of the process, it has emerged that trials on personal responsibility are often complex and that the requirements of proof are high. It is therefore not the case that a large number of entrepreneurs are sentenced to personal liability, as could easily be believed in the light of this case. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to highlight the fact that all the relevant authorities involved in the committee's work have warned that this risks giving criminals greater opportunities to act and operate in the business world. The risks of the proposal are therefore not fully understood. We are therefore in danger of getting into a situation that is more aggravating the situation, by enabling criminals to continue running businesses longer than would otherwise be possible. We Social Democrats assume that the government will review these risks until a bill reaches Parliament. Mr President, I would like to Once again, I would like to support our reservation.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-14	Mr President, I would like to We are debating today, as we do every other day, an urgent matter. Almost all the legislation we have in Sweden, which we decide on in this House, is appropriate for a normal situation. In other words, the balance in legislation, the balance between the interests of the different parties, is appropriate for a situation in which society functions as normal. It has become very clear in many areas that our legislation is not suited to a crisis situation, simply because it was perhaps never the intention of the legislation. It is adapted to a normal situation. However, such a legislative approach also places enormous demands on the legislator's flexibility in a situation that is anything but normal. Sweden and the world are in crisis as a result of a pandemic. It is important to remember that this is the trigger, Mr President. The economic crisis is therefore not a consequence of inadequate economic systems. It is not run from the financial system. It is not run out of problems in the field of association law. It is the result of a pandemic that has struck the world as a natural disaster and should therefore be regarded as such. Mr President, I would like to It is our responsibility as legislators to try to adjust and adapt the legislation that can now be an obstacle, so that we can get through the crisis in the midst of as little damage as possible. One example is to ensure that the economic system works. Today we have a lot of companies struggling for their survival. Their existence is important, not just here and now for all those who earn their living through the jobs created by businesses. It is also important for Sweden in a later perspective, when the virus is combated and Sweden will come back on its feet. We Moderates have asked ourselves whether there is anything we can do in the field of association law, although it is a small piece of the puzzle in a very large puzzle that needs to be laid. Is there anything we can do to reduce the number of unnecessary bankruptcies? Can we screw up the legislation so that companies are not unnecessarily forced into bankruptcy because of a regulatory framework that, as I said, is suited to a normal situation and not for a crisis situation? We consider that there are a number of such factors. That is why we have put forward a committee initiative which is partly dealt with in the Tax Committee; it is about, among other things, how the State as a creditor should behave and pursue claims. It is also about the part that the committee is discussing in this House today. These are the rules that surround personal liability that can arise for company representatives under the Companies Act. We believe that this regulation is not appropriate for the situation in which Sweden now finds itself. It is a rather narrow application of when you have to draw up the first balance sheet, and you have a short period of time to recover from the financial difficulties of the entrepreneur. Mr President, I would like to I find it distressing to listen to the Social Democrats in the speaker's chair today, because it is so clear that they are fundamentally distrusting those who run businesses. Entrepreneurship, according to the Social Democrats, can lead to increased crime and that crime cannot be prosecuted effectively. The attitude is that it is the anomaly, namely the non-managed entrepreneurs, that should set the norm for overall regulation. It is a strange approach and a strange way of looking at businesses, entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs. I regret that, Mr President. By giving more respite and giving a longer deadline until the second balance sheet has to be drawn up, we are giving more companies the opportunity to survive the crisis. Once again, Mr President, remember what has created the crisis! It's a virus. It's a pandemic. In the vast majority of companies there are no structural problems. It is not that we create artificial breathing to keep companies alive that would not be viable anyway. No, this is an attempt to help companies get through the natural disaster created by a virus. This must be carried with it. But instead of adopting this fact, there is a Social Democracy and – in this case – a left-wing minority and grabbing behind straws to find reasons to say no to make it easier for companies to survive and overwinter the crisis. Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased that a majority in this Parliament runs over the government base and announces this to the government. It is worth repeating from this speaker's seat that the government must return urgently. Of course, we are not going to take a blind eye, but we are going to make sure that this happens, because these measures need to be taken now. With this, Mr President, I would like to support the proposal in the report and the committee initiative which has won a majority in the parliamentary civil committee.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-26	Mr President, I would like to I note that Mr Bohlin attaches himself to the risks that both we and the authorities highlight and ascribe to us Social Democrats these views. We listen to the experts who speak on various issues and take note of what they say. So do we in other matters. In fact, we can change our mind, which we will come back to in other matters in the future. When authorities highlight the risks of such proposals, I find it a little strange to attribute these views to us in the Social Democrats and say that we are against entrepreneurs. I think I was quite clear in my introductory speech. It is not just a question of looking at the companies that are in crisis right now, but companies can suffer even further if we continue with this. It is also about the creditors that exist. This opens up the possibility of asking for money in advance and other payment elements. It may be a question of securing assets held by other creditors. This can open up markets that may not be desirable. It is not about us being e against the companies that operate, but rather about seeing the risks to many other companies around us. It's the spill-over effect on other creditors that we're worried about. You can't come and say we're anti-business, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin. Rather, I would say that we are very pro-business when we try to see the whole picture of the problem. As for those companies that are now in danger of going down in some way for some reason, perhaps there are other financial incentives we should try to help them with. It is important to ensure that there is a demand for their goods and services. Does Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin find that argument strange?
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-30	Mr President, I would like to It becomes clear to me that Leif Nysmed has never asked himself what happens to government and legislators by not making sure that the legislation is adapted to the crisis situation we are in and by putting a stone to the burden of this crisis are those who run subcontractors and others bankrupt. How are the creditors helped by that? My criticism of what Leif Nysmed said was that the Social Democrats have again failed in the balance of interests. It is clear that there are risks with all kinds of legislation, but they must be weighted against the potential benefits. In this case, Mr President, the advantage is that we give respite during the crisis. I dare to say that during this crisis all serious creditors have an interest in their business partners being able to get through and get out on the other side. I believe that there are very few creditors who see a self-worth in running subcontractors and business partners into bankruptcy by hard enforcement of claims. We have a situation where legislation risks making directors personally liable. What we are now clearly seeing is that bankruptcy claims are increasing – in April by 200 – 300 per cent. That, Leif Nysmed, is the result of the fact that those who run businesses in this country simply do not dare to try to get through the crisis for the simple reason that they risk becoming personally liable. That, Leif Nysmed, you refuse to do anything about it. But that, Leif Nysmed, has now ensured that we will do something about it.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-34	Mr President, I would like to Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin spoke my name many times, so now most people should at least know my name. I think the debate is a bit of a mess when we do this. We reason and try to find good solutions. My view and our view are that it is the demand for goods and services for these entrepreneurs that has been reduced. That's why they have problems that make a lot of things go bankrupt. That is also why we need to work precisely on the demand side. One should not continue to run companies with a lack of ability to pay for a longer period of time, because in the end one risks pushing the problems ahead. I would like to see discussions on how we stimulate demand for goods and services in order to save Swedish companies and Swedish jobs. I think I'll stay there, or else this could just be political bickering. This is my position. Last of all, I would like to add that we are listening to the expert authorities and taking on board the risk analyses they provide to us. I think it's an important thing to do.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-37	Mr President, I would like to The problem is that demand is being strangled because the world is trying to fight a virus. Demand is strangled as a result of government decisions and political decisions to reduce the spread of infection. These decisions are in themselves reasonable, but then politics must help those affected by the decisions with the other hand instead of saying: No, we are not prepared to do anything. Otherwise, the crisis will get deeper, and more companies will go bankrupt. When the virus is combated, when everything turns around, we will be in a situation where many activities have failed. Restarting activities will be much more difficult. Our reincarnation will take much longer. It is problematic for jobs and for the whole of Swedish society. I think that is an unfair view of all those who have to run businesses in this very difficult situation.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-38	Mr President, I would like to Personal liability in limited liability companies is not a headline that leads to the large masses gathering at televisions. Yet this matter is very important. My view is that we do not have too many entrepreneurs in Sweden, but too few. But you can get the impression that we as a parliament and nation have the attitude that entrepreneurs and future entrepreneurs will always exist, no matter what risks we say they should take and whatever taxes and charges we impose on them. My view is that our decisions, our confidence in entrepreneurs and our attitude have a crucial impact on how many companies we will have in the future. During the current Corona crisis, the number of bankruptcies and reconstructions will increase. On the basis of this situation and this fact, the issue of personal liability is extremely important. A situation has arisen that no entrepreneur could plan or take heights for, I would say. It is not a small dip in demand, but overnight the entire base for operating disappeared. If it happens a day or a week, one can of course consider that a company should be resistant to such a dip. But now we're in for two months, and we still don't see an end. We as a nation have a responsibility to see long-term and not short-term. Add to this that the Riksdag has decided that the share capital may be as low as SEK 25 000 in a limited liability company. Since one should make a balance sheet when half the capital is used up, most people realise that the margins are very small in most companies. Many smaller companies where the owner may be the only employee also very rarely have the ability to put away any larger buffers. At first sight, one might think that the person responsible in a company should in some way have a responsibility to bear costs if one does not take the measures imposed by a company in financial crisis. The representative of a public limited liability company must attend to this. However, representative responsibility is not just that representatives of a company should bear the taxes and charges due. It is also that these taxes and charges take precedence over other creditors. This means that those who have the most to win for the least stake, that is, the state, consider themselves to be ahead of the queue to get their money against the others who may have lost money, that is, the suppliers. At a time such as now with Corona, many can see that if the state takes precedence over other creditors, there is a high probability that other suppliers who lose revenue will also go bankrupt. The domino effect is clear. It means that we should think more than once about what measures we have to take to help the entrepreneur not unnecessarily bankrupt a company. The representative responsibility shall be used for the representative in the company who has been grossly careless, or in simple Swedish has been careless or slipped on the truth about the company's status. Regrettably, representative responsibility is used as a routine decision to ensure that all taxes that fall under the scope of the option can be subject to personal representative responsibility. Individual assessments are not made in such a way as to assess gross negligence. The similarity is clear, everyone goes on the responsibility no matter what. The situation that many entrepreneurs will find themselves in is, when it looks like it is, to decide whether or not to pursue their company. Many will choose to try to push their companies forward in the hope that it will quickly turn back and return to normal. That is when the decision we are proposing today is important. You have more time to show positive results in the figures for the company and do not need to bankrupt long-term viable companies for what is happening right now. We Christian Democrats believe that today's announcement is both good and necessary. But it is also a signal that the Riksdag has an understanding of the situation. Parliament needs entrepreneurs even after the Corona crisis. The Parliament believes that all responsibility cannot be placed on the individual entrepreneur without it being due to the circumstances we are now going through. They are more long-lasting, deeper and harder than anyone could imagine before this situation. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-51	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are debating the latest government proposals to make it easier for companies and associations to make their voices heard. I would like to start by expressing my support for the reservation contained in the report. One thing that can be considered is that it has taken a long time and that the proposals would have been needed earlier. However, we can understand that things do not always go as fast as we wish. It is worse, however, that the proposal itself does not contain all the elements necessary in the current crisis. It is an extreme crisis facing the country's entrepreneurs, wage earners and business. It is of the utmost importance to contribute as far as possible to different types of under-relief and opportunities for companies and companies. In the bill, the Government proposes temporary opportunities for distance participation in general meetings for limited liability companies and economic associations – this in order for the general meetings to be held completely without physical participation. This is, of course, something that is positive and helps to make things easier, which we obviously support. In our view, however, there is no reason to limit oneself to these very proposals, especially at a time when Swedish jobs and companies are now under threat. We must act decisively and on a broad front. We cannot afford to move forward slowly. There are several occasions where companies benefit from having longer deadlines to keep their voices. It has already been highlighted at EU level and was included in the proposals for a Council Regulation on temporary measures concerning the holding of shares in the European Company and the European Cooperative Society. The Commission has concluded that it is an important measure to be able to extend the deadline for the meeting to take place and that it is very urgent to take such a decision. The European Parliament is expected to adopt proposals in due course, and the act will then be adopted. The proposal provides for a temporary derogation at EU level from the deadline provided for in Article 54 of the SE Regulation and in Article 54 of the SCE Regulation. The exemption shall allow European Companies and SCEs flexibility to hold their general meetings within 12 months of the end of the financial year. The Commission stresses that the derogation is necessary in order to be able to plan lawsuits and to provide legal certainty in respect of compliance with existing obligations. The Swedish Democrats believe that the proposal to introduce temporary flexibility is also interesting for Swedish companies and find it difficult to understand the government's dual position, where Swedish companies, companies and associations are given worse conditions than the European companies. A number of disadvantages in extending the deadline are addressed, such as the difficulty of setting a date for when the spread of infection does not constitute an obstacle, difficulties in selecting board members, and deteriorating conditions for granting credit or raising new capital for the company. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats believe that the government here misjudges the fact that Swedish companies and European companies need so many different conditions. A variety of approaches, measures and support are needed to facilitate business. For this reason, the Swedish Democrats propose that the government immediately examine the possibility of an extended deadline in order to be able to hold general meetings. Rapid action is essential when the time period for general meetings has already run for a long time and the situation is critical.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-62	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the CU29 report. The spread of the virus that causes covid-19 makes it difficult for shareholders and members of associations to meet and greatly affects the possibility for companies and associations to organise meetings. As described in the report, the Committee and the Riksdag have recently supported the Government's proposal to introduce the Temporary Exemptions Act in order to facilitate the implementation of general meetings of companies and associations. The committee then stressed the importance of the government closely monitoring developments and taking the additional measures that may be needed to prevent the spread of infection and protect Swedish jobs. The Government now considers that further measures need to be taken to facilitate the implementation of general meetings in such a way as to minimise the risk of contamination. The measures proposed are aimed at facilitating the holding of meetings by companies and associations within the relevant time limits. This is most appropriate by making it possible to keep a voice without physical participation. However, it is essential that minority protection can be maintained as much as possible. The Government therefore proposes to introduce a temporary possibility for the board of a limited liability company to decide before a certain general meeting that the meeting should not be held in a specific location but only by electronic connection between the shareholders. Prior to such a digital meeting, shareholders shall be able to exercise their voting rights through postal voting. The corresponding temporary rules shall be established for economic associations including tenant-owner associations and cooperative tenancy associations. There is a united committee behind this. Mr President, I would like to The accompanying motion discussed in the report proposes that the Government should urgently examine the possibility of extending the deadline for holding general meetings of companies and associations. One disadvantage of such a solution, as mentioned by the previous speaker, is that the duration of the pandemic cannot be predicted at present. It would therefore be difficult to determine how long the general meetings would have to be postponed. In addition, decisions are made at the Annual General Meeting on several important issues such as the establishment of profit and loss statements and balance sheets, discharge from liability for the Board members and the CEO, etc. These are not unimportant issues, and decisions should be taken in them. Postponing an Annual General Meeting risks, among other things, that certain executives whose duties have ceased will not be able to be replaced and that central functions in companies will remain vacant for a long time. Another consequence of postponing an Annual General Meeting that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Industry has highlighted is that a company may be less able to obtain the necessary credits and raise new capital through a long-term issue if it is without established income and balance sheets for the previous financial year. This is particularly problematic in the current economic crisis. It's important to get to grips with this. Mr President, I would like to I therefore call for the reservation to be rejected, and I call again for the committee's proposal to be approved in the CU29 report.
i-97mU6kLU6afmmZjrvBdNd2	Mr President, I would like to In this report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs deals with the report by the Swedish delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly on the work carried out last year. The committee also examines the Government's letter on the activities of the OSSE during the full year 2018 and the first half of 2019. As mentioned during last year's debate here in the House on the same subject, during the winter meeting in Vienna, the Björn Söder of the Swedish Democrats took the initiative to form a new Conservative Group within the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. Therefore, at the summer meeting in Luxembourg, the Conservative and Reformist Group was formed. It is linked to the European ECR Party, where the government parties from the United Kingdom, the United States and Poland join together with the Swedish Democrats and many other parties around the OSCE area. The Swedish Democrats Björn Söder was elected vice-chairman of the group. Mr President, I would like to Politically binding commitments in the third dimension of the OSCE aim to ensure full respect for human rights, to uphold the principles of the rule of law, to build and preserve democratic institutions and to combat intolerance and discrimination. The Government's letter states that during the period Sweden has actively contributed to strengthening the rule of law aspects of the OSCE's security work. It also states that Sweden, as one of 16 participating States, has participated in the activation of the so-called Vienna and Moscow mechanisms, which are specific tools for monitoring the implementation of commitments within the human dimension. The reason for this is the concern about the human rights situation, specifically the persecution of LGBT people, in the Russian Republic of Chechnya. It is certainly positive that Sweden is actively involved in these issues, but the government's concern should also cover the increasing discrimination and intolerance against Christians and other religious minorities within the participating states of the OSCE. In many parts of the 57 participating states of the OSCE, there is evidence that discrimination against other religions and religious orientations is increasing as schools and mosques sponsored by Saudi Arabia are established. Many are experiencing the threat of the rapidly growing Wahabite belief in Islam, with the epicenter in Saudi Arabia. Despite the fact that many of the countries have religious freedom enshrined in the Constitution, there is increasing concern about other religious beliefs. Not infrequently, Christian minorities suffer the most. Mr President, I would like to At the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly's summer meeting in Luxembourg last year, Björn Söder of the Swedish Democrats proposed in a resolution that attention should be paid, condemnation and remedying the discrimination against Christians and other religious minorities currently spreading in several participating states. The resolution was happily adopted by the Assembly and became part of the final document of the Luxembourg meeting. In the final document, the OSSE Parliamentary Assembly expresses great concern that discrimination and repression of minority religions in some OSCE participating states appear to have increased in recent times. This also includes institutional oppression by oppressive acts against various Christian faiths, which can lead to facilitating and encouraging hate crimes against members of these faiths. It is noted with concern that this discrimination includes the following. Firstly, we are talking about vague or ambiguous legislation on freedom of religion, which allows authorities to take arbitrary action against certain churches, including strikes and closures, including house churches in rural regions without officially registered church buildings. Secondly, there is repression and arbitrary acts against certain beliefs and clergy in occupied territories. Thirdly, there is a ban on certain creeds on obtaining or renewing registration of their communities or services, on carrying out missionary work or on building new church buildings because of opaque or partial zone standards. Fourthly, there is the official stigmatization of those who convert to Christianity, including pressure for them to renounce their faith. It is about the confiscation of Bibles and other religious literature or restrictions on the appointment of church officials. The final document calls on OSCE participating states to take account of increased discrimination against Christians and supporters of other beliefs in a minority. It recognizes the full sovereignty of all Christian faiths and their ecclesiastical bodies, their independence from political pressure and their rights to make their own decisions regardless of political conflicts. The OSCE Parliamentary Assembly therefore recommends that the OSSE take action against discrimination. Against this background, the Swedish government should actively work within the OSCE's third dimension to focus in particular on combating the increasing discrimination against Christians and other religious beliefs in a minority within the OSCE participating states. For this reason, I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-87	Mr President, I would like to The organisation for security and cooperation in Europe was built on the foundation laid down by the Helsinki Final Act in 1975 and now has 57 participating states. The OSSE works to promote security and stability and works on three dimensions: a security policy, an economic and environmental one, and a democracy and human rights one. This Parliamentary Assembly is an important forum for dialogue between Members of Parliament from the Member States. They can create opinion and promote a more international understanding of human rights and respect for territorial integrity, the inviolability of borders and the independent right of each state to make security policy choices. This is also part of the important basic principles on which the organisation rests. Mr President, I would like to The OSSE is the world's largest regional security organisation under Chapter VIII of the UN Charter. The activities of the OSCE are divided into three dimensions: military and security issues, economic and environmental issues, democracy and human rights issues. Mr President, I would like to The OSSE has a rotating President, as does the European Union. The OSCE Ministerial Council meeting in Bratislava in December 2019 unanimously appointed Sweden as the country holding the Presidency in 2021. This is an important and honorable mission. Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde will personally chair the Council of Ministers meetings in 2021, leading the 57 Member States in their efforts to improve respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. It also includes promoting freedom of religion and working against discrimination against minorities and discrimination against Christians and supporters of other beliefs. Mr President, I would like to In some of the OSCE Member States, minorities are discriminated against, freedom of religion is restricted and human rights are not respected. Not infrequently, Christian minorities are the most affected. The persecution and discrimination against Christians in the world has increased in recent years, as noted in a report by the British Foreign Office and by the organisation Open Doors. Mr President, I would like to As Chairman of the OSSE, Sweden should clearly mark against Member States that discriminate against Jews, Christians, Muslims and LGBT people and which counteract gender equality and oppress minorities. It is essential that we continue to affirm human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Those Member States that breach their commitments should have their membership frozen, and sanctions should be imposed on those countries. Otherwise, the credibility of the organisation will be reduced. Mr President, I would like to The Presidency decides on the organisation's political priorities, and the Presidency appoints its special representatives. As a result, the Swedish Presidency has a major impact on the work area and priorities for the 2021 financial year. Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde presented to the Foreign Affairs Committee last week the priorities that Sweden will advocate. The Christian Democrats believe that the Foreign Minister focuses on the right issues in relation to Russia, Azerbaijan and Turkey, but that Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde should also affirm respect for religious freedom and the protection of minorities in the Member States. Furthermore, we believe that the Foreign Minister, as Chairman of the OSSE, should actively promote Turkey's recognition and respect for Syrians as a national minority in accordance with the peace agreement in Switzerland, the so-called Lausanne Treaty of 1923, when the new borders of the Turkish nation were drawn after the collapse of the Ottoman Empire. The Christian minorities Armenians, Syrians, Greeks and Jews would be protected by the Constitution, and their civil rights would be safeguarded. These minorities would benefit from minority rights – linguistic, cultural, political and religious. We note that the Turkish nation has not fulfilled its commitments in the peace agreement regarding the rights of non-Muslim minorities. In order to ensure the future existence of Christians in Turkey and to enable them to practice their culture, religion and language, Turkey must guarantee the official minority status of Syrians according to UN and EU criteria. Mr President, I would like to It is important that the Foreign Minister, as Chairman of the OSSE, works for the minority rights of Syrians in Turkey and that the property of the Syrian Orthodox Monastery Mor Gabriels, confiscated by the Turkish State in 2008, is returned to its rightful owner, namely the Mor Gabriel Monastery and the Syrian Assembly of the town of Midyat in south-east Turkey. With this, Mr President, I support the joint reservation by the SD and KD in paragraph 2.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-97	Mr President, I would like to We are now dealing with the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report 2019/ 20:U7 on the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSSE. As chairman of the Swedish OSCE parliamentary delegation, I am proud that we have an active and hard-working Swedish delegation, but I am also proud that Sweden as a nation will shoulder the forthcoming OSSE Presidency in 2021. I will come back to that, because I would like to take this opportunity to say a few words both about the previous year and about the challenges we face in the future. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. Mr President, I would like to The OSSE is the world's largest regional security organisation, with 57 participating states in Europe, the Caucasus, Central Asia and North America. The OSSE is working to promote security and stability in the region on the basis of a broad-based approach to security covering three dimensions: security policy, economic and environmental, democracy and human rights. The organisation's particular strength lies, among other things, in its wide range of participating states, conflict prevention activities, the wide range of institutions and instruments that allow for rapid and flexible conflict management and the widespread presence in the field. The OSSE is an organisation that, like the UN, works in an inclusive spirit. This places special demands on us who come from countries that are democratic, which defend freedom and human rights and which work clearly against corruption. As long as freedom, persecution, oppression, conflict and corruption are a tangible part of the everyday life of many of the OSCE Member States, the tough conversation must have its obvious place at the Assembly meetings. In 2019 nine election observations were held, I would like to mention, and the Swedish delegation attended seven of them. The Swedish delegation had gathered high attendance, as in the previous year. For my part, I was involved in observing elections both in Ukraine and Kazakhstan. This autumn we hope that there will be a number of observations in the OSSE. We have, among other things, the elections in Georgia and the American presidential elections ahead of us, to name but two of the observations that await us. However, in view of the current situation of covid-19, it remains, of course, uncertain whether observations of possible choices in the near future may be made. Mr President, I would like to Yes, the covid-19 crisis affects us globally and is a pandemic which, of course, also affects the work of the OSCE delegation. We held our summer meeting in Luxembourg, and we had time to conduct our annual winter meeting in Vienna in February. We have had to decide to cancel this year's summer meeting, which was supposed to take place in Vancouver in July. As it stands at the moment, for us as for so many others, meetings with the Parliamentary Assembly are taking place digitally. Many of the OSCE countries are now severely affected by the pandemic, both health and economic. In times of crisis, it is important that issues relating to democracy, freedom of expression, human rights, gender equality and climate are still protected and given priority also post-corona. We can see that these questions are now being challenged. In Ukraine, Russian aggression is still ongoing. In Poland and Hungary, democratic institutions such as the free press and the independent justice system are being challenged. We have more examples of worrying signs from other OSSE Member States as well. Free trade is being called into question. Equality is an exception, and women's oppression is increasing. LGBTQ people and minorities are being oppressed, which is also a security policy challenge. In addition to LGBT people, religious minorities are affected, for example when anti-Semitism grows stronger, and ethnic minorities such as the Crimean Tatars are particularly vulnerable. These groups, which I have mentioned, are, of course, even more vulnerable in the areas of conflict. We must constantly work to protect democratic development both in countries where democracy is still young and in countries where democracy has long been unthreated but is now being challenged. The paradox, and the frustrating one, is that populism and aggressive nationalism are growing at a time when, as never before, we need effective and well-functioning cooperation to tackle the problems we face today. Pandemies don't care about national boundaries. There is no solution to the climate issue that does not involve increased cooperation across the planet. Nor can we resolve the refugee issue without a European Union with Member States prepared to reach compromises. With increased conflict between countries, it becomes a more uncertain world for all of us. Mr President, I would like to We note that a number of frozen conflicts remain to be dealt with in regions that are relatively close to us. One issue that is constantly on the agenda is the prolonged conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh. There, the challenge is to find peaceful solutions for how the parties, especially Armenia and Azerbaijan, can agree. We also have the issues of Russia's involvement in Georgia and, of course, the ongoing Russian aggression against Ukraine, which I have already mentioned. Solving current and frozen conflicts is an important task, in which the OSSE has a responsibility and a role to play in an ongoing dialogue. The Swedish Presidency in 2021 gives Sweden the opportunity to influence the OSSE to a greater extent – while also representing the entire organisation as the country holding the Presidency. The direction that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has indicated, focusing on the European security regime, gender equality, human rights and democracy issues, is wise. I would particularly like to thank the Foreign Minister for the initiative she has shown by involving the OSCE delegation and, of course, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but also parts of civil society in the work of the government. We look forward to continued good cooperation. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the members of the OSCE delegation and the other members of parliament who participated in both election observation and other meetings during the year. I would like to thank the Swedish diplomats at the OSSE in Vienna and at our Swedish embassies. Of course, I would also like to thank the staff of the Parliament's International Office, who always assist us and assist with practicalities and good moods. Finally, I would like to thank the Vice-President of the delegation, Margareta Cederfelt, for our cooperation. I am convinced that the Swedish delegation will continue to take its place in the Parliamentary Assembly once we can return to a somewhat more normal existence after the ongoing coronapndemin. We are also looking forward to the Swedish Presidency of the OSSE, for it is democracy, equality and solidarity.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-114	Mr President, I would like to Now that we are debating the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, it is a retroactive debate because it concerns the Government's letter concerning 2018 and the first half of 2019 and a statement by the Swedish delegation. But of course it is impossible to focus only on the past. Of course, Mr President, the debate is also about the future. As has been said here before, the OSSE has a long history. The organization was formed in 1975, during the Cold War, and the Parliamentary Assembly was founded in 1990. The very basis of the work is the European security regime. The fact that there are 57 Member States has already been said, but there are also about ten observer countries. The OSSE extends from Canada in the West to Mongolia in the East. The OSSE is a security organisation. I think it's important to remember that. The OSSE is working on security from a broad perspective. It is about building trust and preventing conflicts. The work is carried out in the three dimensions of politics and security, the economy and the environment, and human rights. As Vice-President of the Swedish delegation but also Vice-President of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, I am very pleased to note that the Swedish delegation is one of the most active in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. I say this because we are actually a small nation with a relatively small delegation in the broad context. But it's very active and it's making a difference in the business. I would like to mention here the OSCE field missions, field activities, which are carried out in 15 countries. The work of the missions is based on the needs of each country, and the activities are corrected accordingly. All missions work in close cooperation with the government in the country. I would like to mention in particular a mission: the Commission in Tajikistan. It has a programme to prevent corruption and increase legal security through the work of the police, but also to support women politicians. To my great pleasure, I have noted that this year there are actually two women in Tajikistan's delegation. It's the first time. This demonstrates the importance of the OSCE mission, Mr President. I would also like to mention the mission in Kyrgyzstan, which is involved in the training of journalists. It is about young people, post-grades, who get to attend an education in what journalism means, how to work with media freedom, press ethics, fact-finding and more. This is important, because in many of the OSCE Member States the media are subject to restrictions and often under severe pressure from the regime. This shows that education is important, as is networking. Unfortunately, however, the most familiar mission today is the observation forces in Ukraine. Russian aggression continues, six years after the first occupation of Crimea. There's warfare in Donetsk and Luhansk. Ukraine is a country that is at war and under the occupation of a neighbouring country, Russia. It is worth noting that in Ukraine there are almost 1.5 million internally displaced persons. All come from the areas affected by Russian aggression. The UN Secretary-General has called on Russia to observe a cease-fire during the coronapandemy, but so far the call has not been followed – not at all. The OSSE plans to have observers at the Donetsk-Luhansk border crossing points. There are daily reports of violations of the Minsk Agreement. The observer force should have a calming effect on the conflict but also convey a picture of what is happening. For those interested, the reports are available on the OSCE website. The security situation in the OSCE region is in many cases strained. I am thinking here of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, but also of Transnistria, Moldova, Abkhazia, South Ossetia and Georgia. Here, the OSSE is doing a great deal to work for peace and security. The second dimension, economics and security, has become increasingly important. This applies to the economy but also to the environment, because environmental issues are becoming increasingly important in the OSCE Member States. When it comes to election observation, the Swedish delegation is very active, Madam President. After all, the President has been a member of the OSCE delegation and chairman of the first committee, politics and security. Sweden has participated in seven out of nine election observations that have been carried out. There are sometimes misunderstandings about what an election observation is. Election observation is not about condemning but about working for greater democracy. This is important because the actual work on election observation is large and extensive. Several organisations usually participate. It's about watching what happens before an election. What is politics and media freedom like? How does parliament and electoral authority work? On election day it is of course a matter of being out and noting what is happening. And after that, you have to follow up. Will the election result be observed? After this, a country will not be left, but will, of course, be offered support in order to be better. I note, however, that, unfortunately, the recommendations are not always followed. I myself served as a special coordinator in Belarus. I mention this country because the OSSE has been observing elections there since 1994 and has made a large number of recommendations. How have these been taken care of? A recommendation has been partially followed up. It is a question of adapting the polling stations for disabled people to participate in the voting process. A study has also been set up on how democracy can be facilitated. Otherwise, there has been no change. But there are also joys, and I think they are also important to mention. North Macedonia has unfortunately had to postpone its election due to the Corona virus but is very careful to emphasise that the OSSE should be present and observe when the elections are held. This is a good thing. It is also positive that Uzbekistan held an election on 22 December last year. It was the first time that the OSSE observed an election in Uzbekistan; there has not even been an embryo of democracy in the past. However, the new President, Mirziyoyev – excuse my wrong pronunciation – has strong intentions to improve and develop democracy, and the OSSE has said that it should help with this, both from the parliamentary side and from the government side. We are prepared to stand behind Uzbekistan in its quest for democracy. Moreover, we were two Swedes who took part in this observation despite the fact that the elections took place on 22 December. I would also like to mention another aspect of the OSCE's democratic work. Last year I was appointed rapporteur for the murder of Russian opposition politician Boris Nemtsov. For those interested, the report is published on the OSCE-PA website. When I was appointed rapporteur, the Council of Europe had already investigated the murder, but we also wanted to investigate from the OSCE-PA both what had happened and how Russia had handled the judicial process. Unfortunately, the legal process in Russia is still obscured. No information has been available and I have not been able to get any positive response or information in response to the questions I have addressed to Russia. This is one of my conclusions. The second conclusion, of course, is that the conditions for democracy need to be developed in Russia. These include the conditions for opposition politicians. But it is also fundamentally a question of the principles of the rule of law. I would like to mention that the OSSE also has special representatives for media freedom and the High Commissioner for minority groups. I would also like to mention that women have a low degree of representativeness within the Parliamentary Assembly. I think this is important to mention because the Member States themselves appoint their delegates. About 28 percent of the delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly are women. However, women are still represented in leading positions in the congregation. There are 12 special representatives within the OSSE, Madam President. Seven of these are women. Here I can mention that there is a special representative for the Arctic; it is a Norwegian female parliamentarian. There is also a special representative for civil society and cooperation with it; it is a woman parliamentarian from Finland. As you can hear, the Nordic countries are well represented when it comes to the Parliamentary Assembly. Finally, I would like to say that in times of concern, nationalism and reduced respect for human rights and democracy, the need for international cooperation is greatest. It is about cooperation between both governments and parliamentarians. Only by meeting, discussing and working out solutions to problems can we achieve a secure, stable world based on respect for human rights and the rule of law. Even now under the covid-19 pandemic, the work of the OSCE-PA continues. Regularly, every week, various forms of webinar are held in which delegations are invited to participate. Finally, I would like to thank the Office of the OSCE delegation in Sweden for its good work and support to us Members. I would also like to thank the chairman of the delegation, Johan Büser, for his work. I look forward to the Swedish Presidency of the OSSE and would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for giving us in the delegation a willingness to cooperate.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-140	Madam President, I would like This is Parliament's examination of what has been going on in 2018 and half in 2019 as regards the work of the government in the OSSE and the parliamentary delegation. It is clear that it is important not only for the members of the delegation to tell, but also for us as parliamentarians to discuss and review what is happening. Of course, there are many things that are basically very good. Mr Odihr's work has been mentioned before, and it is crucial for all the election observation that is taking place in Europe, but also in the United States and other OSCE countries. This is, of course, important. What is going on within the framework of the Commission in Ukraine is important, albeit not enough. This mission clearly demonstrates the limitations of the system through its actions. There is one of the aggressive players there. Russian eyes and ears are in. That's where the limits are. There has been no access to the entire Ukrainian territory. The conditions are set by the Kremlin, and it is clear that this is not acceptable. When we talk about our Europe and our security, one of the important foundations is the Helsinki Final Act of 1975. At that time, however, a number of principles could be found for our association in order to build security and move forward with greater transparency and thus try to raise the thresholds for an open conflict with respect for territorial borders. After the fall of the Berlin Wall, it became possible to reach a Paris declaration, which this year celebrates 30 years. It was seen as a great step forward. We then hoped that we were all on the same road map. We wanted a new order for our Europe and for our cooperation. But what we have seen in Europe since then is a new reality, and it is also clearly visible in the OSSE. Russia wishes to return to another order, post Helsinki and post Paris. It wants to see a new policy of great power and a new Russian hegemony across parts of our Europe. Contrary to promises, spoken and signed, there have been attempts to change and change boundaries. Parts of the territory of other countries have been illegally annexed. This continues without the OSSE being able to do anything about it. The OSSE is a consensus organisation. Just as in the Security Council, problems arise of success. It is clear that this is a challenge when Sweden now takes on the chairmanship of the OSSE for 2021. It's an important choice to make, and it's important for the delegation to decide on a position – to be a pleasant interlocutor, the airbag in the system, or a voice that stands up for the principles and foundations that we have had and also for the third dimension of the safety concept. I note that the government has the starting point for the whole broad concept of security to be guiding. But we know that, not least, Russia has no interest in holding on human rights and democracy issues. If you talk about it, you do it in the same way as China, in other words with the view that it is internal affairs. The muscles are missing from the OSSE. It is important that we are careful and active in order to ensure that we do not play in a game where we gradually change reality again into a order that the Kremlin under Putin wants. As things stand, we can predict that he has quite a long time. He usually says he waits out others. Therefore, there is reason to pay attention. There is reason to stand up with a clear voice for Ukraine, Georgia and the fundamental principles of territorial integrity. It is about standing up for human rights and democracy, because without them and without the rule of law, we know that conflicts of other kinds are waiting. It is extremely important that the Presidency does not aim to be a shock absorber, although I know that the role of President requires that we cannot say everything and that we must represent the organisation. But it is important that it is clear what Sweden's opinion is. We see in many other contexts how to try to silence by being a little bulldozer or by taking out the turns and aggressively attacking. Then we have a tendency to step back. It is important that we do not, because if we do, we know that others lose hope and think: Okay, then we have to adapt to the reality that we see coming. And that is what Russia wants. It is also important to be gentle with the forces used. We know that different instruments are being used to destabilise. We need to look at those instruments. We know how the Kremlin has used the Russian Orthodox Church to influence. We also see the oppression of other Christian groups by the Christian banner. Churches are being closed, and this is happening not only in Russia but also in several other OSCE Member States. You want only one voice to be heard, and that's the voice of power. The church that is ready to join is linked to it. We must be careful that religion does not become the voice of oppression. It must be the voice of freedom, and freedom must also include other human rights. If people are oppressed, if LGBT people are oppressed, if women are oppressed, if journalists are imprisoned and if the free word is silenced, then we know that there is also oppression of religion, no matter what one believes in. It is crucial that we stand up for the fundamental values, and that we uphold the third dimension is central. Madam President, I would like With this, I think the Committee on Foreign Affairs has a good advice – to put the statement and the letter to the record.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-156	Madam President, I would like We have received the annual report of the OSCE delegation. As a member of that delegation, I would, of course, like to emphasise what I think is important to work with in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, but I would like to start with the Swedish Presidency of the OSSE, which starts on 1 January next year. Of course, most of what is done during that year will have some kind of connection to the pandemic. Hopefully, then, we have already made some progress in the fight against the spread and consequences of the pandemic, but it has already caused so much damage that it will take many years to deal with everything. One of the negative consequences we see from the pandemic is that there are leaders within the OSSE who have taken the opportunity to introduce laws that give more power to governments without Parliament being able to act. Another negative consequence is that laws that have a negative impact on people's lives are introduced now that people cannot go out into the streets and squares and protest or even have meetings to discuss the legislative proposals. I hope that Sweden will address this during the Presidency. As the government runs a feminist foreign policy, I expect that Sweden as chairman will pursue feminist issues such as the right to abortion, men's violence against women and the persecution of LGBT people. What I, as a delegate in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, want to emphasise is the importance of constantly raising issues relating to issues that many parliamentarians in many countries want to either worsen or completely ignore. As the OSCE Parliament brings together parliamentarians from 57 Member States, it is possible to speak directly with parliamentarians from the various countries, but the main work is still taking place during the sessions. During this summer's meeting, a resolution is adopted for each of the three dimensions of the OSCE-PA. They are the military policy dimension, the economic and environmental dimension and the human dimension. There, all parliamentarians have the opportunity to bring in things that they consider important. For example, I have written about the importance of sexual and reproductive health and rights and that the school should teach about it. Since resolutions in the OSSE are adopted by a majority, no country can individually obstinate on human rights issues with which they do not wish to work. Although the resolution is not binding, the majority in this House supported my proposal first and foremost od those who are against women's rights that they are in a minority. The attempts to win ground for their outdated view of women, but those of us who are in favour of human rights showed that there are more of us. This was an important way of demonstrating that the majority of parliamentarians in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly believe that sexual and reproductive health and rights are so important that we are prepared to work towards raising this in school education. That is how we can stigmatise those who are against human rights. Not that I believe that the parliamentarians of authoritarian states will immediately go home and start working for human rights, but, with opposition from other countries, they will have to deal with the fact that, after all, they are only a small few. In the future, the Left Party will work to ensure that LGBT rights are written and SRHR is included in the annual resolutions adopted in the organisation. Madam President, I would like Another strength with the OSSE is the existence of a reporting system for hate crimes, including offences against LGBT persons. In addition, there is, for example, the Moscow mechanism, which Sweden, together with 16 other countries, initiated. It provides the opportunity to send an independent expert mission to an OSCE country if there is deemed to be a particularly serious threat to human rights, in relation to the commitments it has made within the organisation. Among other things, this was done after attention was paid to the terrible crimes against homosexuals in Chechnya. At that time, the extent of the crimes was not only revealed, but also how the guilty got impunity. The Left Party believes that Sweden should work for the Moscow mechanism to be invoked when threats to LGBTQ people and the LGBTQ movement are considered imminent. This request has been highlighted in another report, but I would like to take this opportunity to highlight it also during this debate, because it is a very important issue. Another force with the OSSE is Open Skies, which allows 34 Member States to conduct extensive reconnaissance flights across each other's territory. Through these flights, which must be made with unarmed planes, countries can gain an overview of each other's military and civil infrastructures and stay up-to-date on each other's military development, which is a way of creating predictability and transparency between the parties. It is also a way of creating dialogue between countries that may otherwise not have so many platforms where they meet. Thus Open Skies is a security-building collaboration. In October last year it emerged that the US is considering leaving Open Skies, and in April came further information pointing in the same direction. It is unfortunate because most of the countries involved do not have the same monitoring system as the United States and cannot otherwise usurp the extremely important information. This is not the first international organisation that Trump leaves. It is serious that a great power like the United States chooses to remain outside multilateral cooperation. It is not just a question of reducing the resources of the organisations, but also of President Trump choosing to abandon more and more platforms for dialogue, which are, of course, a prerequisite for cooperation and security. Through family and friendship ties, work in international organisations, foreign studies and foreign trade, the world is strongly interlinked. There is a need for more open international cooperation, not nationalistic solitude. Madam President, I would like Civil society plays a central role in democratic systems and in democratic development. It acts as both watchdog and whistleblower when abuse has been committed, rights violated or development is going in the wrong direction. It acts as a responsibility for promised reforms and decisions, but also as a source of information both for the population of a country and for the outside world. In some cases, civil society offers services and functions that the state is unable to deliver. It is also in civil society that people join forces and jointly demand change in order to have their rights met and their living conditions improved. Civil society is thus an essential counterweight to powerful political and economic interests and is an important arena for smoothing inequalities and injustices worldwide. Today, civil society's space is shrinking in many countries. That is why it is important for us in the OSCE delegation to always make sure that we meet civil society organisations – to learn more about the situation in the countries we visit, but also to show the organisations our appreciation for the important work they are doing. Madam President, I would like I look forward to the meeting of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly once again, so that I can both highlight the issues I consider important to highlight and meet civil society organisations in order to tie up more ties and learn more about our environment.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-180	Madam President, I would like In the world, there is now a wide-ranging attack on the rule-based multilateral world order, as it is commonly expressed. These are principles that will sustain our world. These are principles that are also very important to us in Sweden. It is about the rule of law, free trade, climate agreements, a broad security regime that respects its neighbours and so on. All this is undermined, but it is not only undermined, as one might think, by undemocratic, destructive regimes. It is also undermined by countries in the heart of Europe, in the heart of the West. It is about free states that in various ways – as a result of populism, extremism and the coming to power of gapnecks and fortune seekers – drive development in a more authoritarian direction. This basically threatens liberal values and progressive values. These are minority rights, women's rights, inclusive societies and so on. Instead, we have a political development driven by loud attacks on the free media, the stamping out of minorities, by increased polarisation and by increased intolerance and xenophobia. Democracy is now going through its worst crisis for many decades. The pandemic we are now seeing will, of course, reinforce this. At least there are very great risks to it. We see a number of countries using the situation that is now in place to impose draconian restrictions and, in various ways, to knock down the opposition in the country. There are governments that want to gain more power and so on. There are countries in which there is by no means any concrete indication that this will then be rolled back and that we should return to a normal position. We are now seeing how regimes will use the pandemic to strengthen their own power and increase their full power. In the wake of the economic crisis, we also see, of course, that more people are becoming unemployed, that people are more likely to seek political extremes and so on. I think it is important, Madam President, for the OSSE as an organisation to be put into this context. The organisation's problems at the moment are partly the result of developments in the world, but not just. It is also the case that countries are actively acting within the OSSE to, as it were, undermine the whole base, the basic doctrine, of the OSCE's activities. I must say that I think the job that Swedish Members of Parliament are doing, which we hear about in this debate, and which the Swedish delegation is doing within the OSSE, is very good. It stands up clearly for important values and tries to uphold the obligations of the organisation and respect for the fundamental states and so on. The OSSE is an important body. It is the world's largest regional security organisation with 57 Member States. They have a series of field missions, election observations and so on. It has to deal with a number of frozen or ongoing conflicts, not least in Nagorno-Karabakh, Abkhazia, Transnistria and, of course, Ukraine. If the OSSE works, one can play a very important role, which we in Sweden naturally strive for. However, we have seen how the European security regime has in any case been partially eliminated by Russia through the attack on Ukraine, the annexation of Crimea, the undermining of security in a number of countries, hybrid wars and fake news. Not least is it about the dictatorship and repression within Russia, perhaps most clearly exemplified in the murder of Boris Nemtsov four five years ago. Madam President, I would like This means that the work of the OSCE is crippled. The ability to act is considerably limited when there is such polarisation in the organisation and such strong destructive forces act to ensure that the OSSE is weak. But it's not just about Russia. It is important to emphasise that. There are also several EU Member States, such as Hungary and Poland, mentioned earlier in the debate. There are also other states that do not live up to OSCE standards, principles and commitments. Turkey is such a state, which has now embarked on a military adventure that occupies parts of northern Syria. There is massive military and police violence and widespread political persecution. Journalists are being imprisoned. Freedom of religion is not respected, which was well mentioned by the Christian Democrats in a previous speech. This makes Sweden's role as the country holding the presidency next year very important. On the one hand, it is of course important that we act in different ways in order for the organisation to stick together and function, and on the other hand it is very important that Sweden is now a clear voice for human rights, democracy and the rule of law, for the protection of minorities, LGBT people's rights, women's rights and so on. We must make sure that these principles are not exaggerated, because there are a number of states that want nothing more than to deceive the shirts of the democracies of these international bodies. It is therefore very important to emphasise that. On the Liberal side, we support the fact that Sweden is now becoming the country holding the presidency, and I also understand that there is broad agreement here in Parliament on the importance of these principles.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-194	Madam President, I would like The activities of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe are of central importance for the security of Sweden and Europe. The OSSE is a forum where the European security regime is defended. Territorial integrity and the inviolability of borders, the ban on the use of force and the right of states to make foreign and security policy choices independently are some of the cornerstones of this regime. For Sweden, the protection of the European security regime is a vital interest in security. The OSSE, with its 57 participating states, is also home to the unique, broad concept of security. This puts democracy and human rights in direct relation to security both within states and between them. On this basis, the Participating States have accepted that human rights are shared commitments to be respected and promoted. Since 2014, there has been an armed conflict with almost daily deaths in Europe. Russia's aggression against Ukraine and the illegal annexation of Crimea are now in its seventh year. No lasting solution is in sight. We expect all parties, in particular Russia, to fulfil their commitments under the so-called Minsk Agreement, which will create the conditions for a sustainable political solution to the conflict in eastern Ukraine. The OSSE has a central role to play in monitoring the situation on the ground and in directing the talks taking place in the trilateral contact group. In addition to the Russian aggression against Ukraine and the illegal annexation of Crimea, there are a number of protracted conflicts in Eastern Europe and the Southern Caucasus. In Central Asia, democratic development is under threat. In the Western Balkans, transit is under way against the rule of law. We have seen important progress but also shortcomings in the country's reform efforts. In all these geographys, the OSSE is present in support of the countries and as an early warning function through field missions and through the autonomous institutions of Odihr, the Media Freedom Representative and the High Commissioner for National Minorities. In some of the protracted conflicts, the OSCE Presidency has special and personal representatives who have a role in the various negotiations under way to achieve peaceful solutions. It is clear that the OSSE plays a crucial role in all security policy conflicts affecting our region. Madam President, I would like The consensus that exists between the parties in the Swedish Parliament regarding the basic orientation of our foreign and security policy is a strength for Sweden's actions in the OSSE and has been so for a long time. We are driving the OSSE to demand responsibility for crimes committed against the security regime and violations of human rights commitments, and we support the autonomous institutions of the organisation which are working to strengthen respect for democracy and human rights. Our political commitment is also matched by financial support. Among other things, we support through specific projects such as the Human Rights Office and the Monitoring Mission for Ukraine. We contribute to the OSCE Election Observation Missions. Madam President, I would like The letter submitted by the Government to the Riksdag describes the activities of the OSSE during 2018 and the first half of 2019. The letter sets out the details of Swedish engagement. The letter also describes how the activities in the three dimensions of the OSCE have survived during the period. It is clear that conflicts affect the climate of cooperation in the organisation. For this reason, it is very difficult at the moment to reach decisions that would help to strengthen respect for the European security regime or other important commitments. What is not mentioned in the letter, since it occurred after the period covered by the letter, is that Sweden has been appointed Chairman of the organisation in 2021. The fact that Sweden will hold the Presidency of the OSSE next year is a natural consequence of our long-standing commitment to security in Europe. Our main task will be to use the important platform provided by the Presidency to safeguard the European security regime and the broad concept of security. In a troubled world, it is a mission that is extra important but also extra difficult. Given the difficult contradictions in the organization, we need to have realistic expectations of what we can achieve as chairman. Preparations for the Presidency are now in full swing. At the first stage, we are working together with ministries, authorities, think tanks, civil society and, of course, the Riksdag to identify the priorities that will guide our Presidency. I am keen to have this dialogue with Parliament and look forward to our continued contacts on this issue.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-205	Madam President, I would like I have a few questions for the Secretary of State. The first concerns the observers in Ukraine. The observers are important. Although their mandate is limited, it is important that the force remains in place. I know that the observer force has problems with the economy on a regular basis, and there are forces that oppose the continued financial support of the observer force to carry out its mission. How will Sweden address this issue during the Swedish Presidency? Can we have a promise here that the government will work to ensure that there is financial support for the observer force? I also wonder if there is any intention to try to develop the observer force. I am thinking here of Georgia, South Ossetia and Abkhazia. The Russian aggression has been evident there and has become increasingly prominent. For example, elections have been held in Abkhazia with Russian background support. There are also numerous examples of military abuse. This would require more observers and support for Georgia's right to its territory. I hope that the Swedish Government will work to keep the focus on the European security regime now that covid-19 is ravaging. There are a number of forces who would like to see the focus shifted from the European security regime to other issues, even peripheral issues or issues that are certainly not within the OSCE area. There must be force here in the Presidency.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-210	Madam President, I would like I thank Margareta Cederfelt for the important issues. Let me start with the observers in Ukraine. I am also aware that attempts are being made to ensure that our monitors are not allowed access at all. You even want to remove the mission. I can assure Margareta Cederfelt that, within the framework of the Presidency, we will work to ensure that observers continue to receive both political and financial support. It is the same with the Georgian mission. I do not know that it is actively working to remove that mission in the same way as I know that it is doing so with the one in Ukraine, but we want it to continue to work. I fully agree that we must keep our focus on the European security regime. I know that different countries have raised the issue of reducing that focus and focusing instead on issues that we do not consider to be very important. At the same time, we have to be observant that other countries can say that things that we think are important – for example human rights, including LGBTQ rights – are not important, and thus they try to silence us when we raise those issues. Here it is important both to state that the issues we raise are important and to keep the focus on the European security regime.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-215	Madam President, I would like Yes, absolutely! The rights of LGBT persons are part of the OSCE's remit. Of course, the focus should remain there; it is extremely urgent because they are included in the mandate. There are also those who want to remove these issues, but I include them in the European Security Order and the OSCE mission. It is good that the government will focus on this. But I would like to go back to the question of Georgia, South Ossetia and Abkhazia. The situation is getting worse as it affects the whole of Georgia. There is now a decline in democracy. There will be an election in the autumn. What will the government do to ensure, during the Presidency, that Russian aggression does not spill over to the elections this autumn so that it becomes less democratic or in any way adversely affected? We could see during the previous elections that trends in what took place in South Ossetia and Abkhazia also had an impact on how the elections were conducted in the rest of Georgia. The issue of democracy is important. The problems are increasing, and Russia is keen to keep quiet about the issue, just as Russia is doing with Ukraine.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-218	Madam President, I would like As Margareta Cederfelt says, I believe that the issue of democracy is important. I have visited the areas myself, and I have seen the barbed wire and the military border posts. I've seen how badly people living in these areas are treated. They suffer from not having a normal, safe and secure situation. It is very important that the OSSE does not leave these areas. One thing that I also think is important is that sanctions are not ended or political pressure is reduced after a certain period of time. It should not be that if you are aggressive against or annex another country, it will be seven, eight or ten years out in the cold and then everything will be back to normal. I believe that we should keep pressure until the situation has been resolved; so do not let the pressure go. I think we agree to keep Georgia high on the agenda.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-221	Madam President, I would like Test, test, test– the call has been crystal clear. A great many countries that have otherwise chosen different strategies in this crisis have done just that, that is, devoted themselves to extensive sampling, to measure is to know. Finland, Norway and Germany are testing far more than Sweden. Denmark tests twice as many despite the fact that Sweden is twice as large as Denmark. Sweden is therefore the worst in the Nordic countries when it comes to sampling. On March 30, the Public Health Agency was given the task of creating a national strategy for sampling, and a month later they came with their results. They came to the conclusion that Sweden should reach a capacity of 150 000 tests per week. Last week 29 400 people were tested in Sweden. In News yesterday there was an almost over-explicit example of reasons for testing. The right people should be at work, and the right people should be home from work. Antibody tests help restart the economy. The entire exit issue out of the corona is based on extensive sampling. I raised this issue for the first time at the Prime Minister's meeting on 11 March. Then I met a rather broad disinterest in this issue. At each party leader meeting since then, the issue has been raised, with a growing interest. Strategies and plans are not enough. This requires logistics, sampling chains, staff and rotations. It's not rocket science, but it's hard. My question to the Prime Minister at this point, when the government has indicated that it is rather the regions that are responsible for Swedish sampling, is this: exactly who is now responsible for exactly what needs to be done in order to quickly reach the Swedish target?
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-228	Madam President, I would like I fully share the view that we need to take up the number of tests. That is also why it has been working on this for a long time. I think we all agree on how the distribution is in Swedish health care and on the division of labour we have. When the government saw that it could not be implemented as intended, the agency was given this task. We have now also appointed a coordinator, because this must work well. Just as Ulf Kristersson says, this requires quite a lot. It is a logistics exercise, and it must be thorough. It's easy to say that we're going to try more... and you can certainly do that... but you should also know that it's right. You should know that you are testing the right person and that it is the right outcome, so that the whole chain works. That is why we said that it is important for us to be able to assist at national level with, among other things, laboratory activities. That part of the logistics needed to be changed up, and it is now growing up – there we have a capacity above 100 000. The actual sampling as such must be linked to the health care system. That is why we believe that it is best carried out by the regions with the support that the regions need. When I talk to regional representatives, they also see that this is important. We will come up with more tests; the 100,000 are still stuck. I agree with the frustration that things have gone too slowly, but I do not believe in building a whole new strategy or a whole new structure at this point. That would not speed this up. We have a national responsibility for the existence of capacity. The activities are managed by the regions, so we get the records and the results there. We will gradually switch up so that everyone – of course patients and users at retirement homes but also the important staff in healthcare and care for the elderly and others – can be tested.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-234	Madam President, I would like I do not doubt the Prime Minister's willingness to test it at all, but I think it is a little strange that we are now finding out that this is difficult. Some things are obvious; I agree. That health care is responsible for the patients, I think, is part of its natural mission. The fact that the health care system tests health professionals is also quite obvious. That it takes lab capacity, that it requires a logistics chain and that it takes quite a lot of things, of course, knows everyone who has done something operational on the ground at some point. This is a comprehensive matter, but we knew that two months ago. That's why it was urgent. What I cannot quite understand is the suggestion that it is now suddenly the regions that should be responsible for many more things than are included in their actual mission. On the contrary, the basic paper states that new players are needed, including outside the regions. I noticed the other day that Lena Hallengren did not think it should be compared with other countries. She had a press conference in which it was suggested that it was the responsibility of the regions that now did not really work. What makes this so much more difficult in Sweden, the Prime Minister, than in other comparable countries?
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-239	Madam President, I would like Some countries have tried more; that's right. Some countries have also tested less. There are both. I believe that there is a national responsibility to ensure that this works, but not in such a way as to take away what is normally to be done. For the government, there has never been any other order than that of the regions. Now building something next to it had taken even longer. The question then is what we are doing to support the regions and make this possible. Among other things, laboratory capacity was crucial. Now we have the capacity to perform about 100 000 tests. That is what needs to be done now, and that is why the dialogue with the regions is important. We're gonna help each other out and make sure we get the volume up. I share Ulf Kristersson's view, and I can also agree with the frustration. We need to make sure it works better.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-244	Madam President, I would like I think all parents should be allowed to choose whether they want to put their children in an immigrant school or not. It may sound a little pointed when I put it that way, but I know at the same time that most parents understand what I mean and that they agree with me. But Gothenburg has tried to prevent this. It has introduced rules that allow new arrivals to be given priority to schools and that Swedish pupils who are then displaced can be placed somewhere else, for example in an alienation area. In one case, this resulted in an eight - year - old getting more than an hour's route to school one way. The government has set up an investigation called the equivalence investigation. We got a result from it relatively recently – a couple of weeks ago. The investigator is in favour of a similar proposal. There you talk about schools and classes having what you call an all-round composition. That's what you call fair. All of this, of course, makes me wonder how the government sees things. Therefore, my question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister think that parents should have the opportunity to opt out of immigrant schools, or does he think that Swedish students should be forced to go to a school, for example in an exclusion area, even though they do not want to?
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-248	Madam President, I would like We have now received the investigation, and of course it will be referred. Then we will draw conclusions from this. We believe that it is important for parents to have the widest possible choice of school. We do know, however, that the so-called free choice of school – I say a so-called one – is not always free for the simple reason that there are sometimes many who want to choose the same school, and not everyone will be accommodated in the school. Then the distribution should take place in some other way. This is now largely based on queue time, which means that if you happen to be born in the right place and early in the year you have a better chance of entering school than if you were born late in the year or are newly moved. It's a system that doesn't work. It is a system which, above all, does not underpin the very free choice of school. It sounds like a free choice of school, but it will be something else. That is why we believe that we need to put in place a system in which schools can be chosen, but there must also be a system to deal with the situation where more people apply to a school than there are places. We will have to come back to this once we have referred the investigation and drawn conclusions from the consultation.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-252	Madam President, I would like I interpret the Prime Minister's reply as saying that there is simply no answer to the question yet, but that we must await the government's assessment as to whether or not parents should be forced to place their children in schools in remote areas or whether they should be able to opt out of it. I firmly believe that we should have the opportunity to opt out of this and, of course, I look forward to debating this with the government to the extent that they would land in a different conclusion.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-254	Madam President, I would like As it should, of course, we shall refer and analyse the answers we receive. But there's one thing I'm gonna stand up for, and that's diversity. Is it something that Swedish society would lose out on is if we were to put different groups in different schools. It divides a society. I think we should work to ensure that the school also contributes to a cohesive society. It's better for the whole community, and it's better for the students' education. The research is quite clear that at the moment we start to isolate different groups in each part it will not be good for the students. At least I'm gonna stand up for diversity. Then we will see how to get to it in the best way.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-257	Madam President, I would like We are in the midst of a historic global pandemic, and its effect is very difficult to fully grasp. Right now, the focus is entirely on saving lives, saving health, reducing the spread of infection and saving as many jobs and businesses as possible. But political leadership must also have the ability to look further ahead, what comes next. A very big question will then be vaccinations, the day we have a vaccine in place. Usually it takes 10 to 15 years to develop a new vaccine. The pharmaceutical industry is now much more positive and says that perhaps within two years or even a year and a half there will be a vaccine or perhaps even several active vaccines available on the market. But the solution is not only that there is a vaccine available, but then the great work, namely all the questions to be answered in this connection. It is about how we will get the vaccine, which risk groups should be prioritised, what logistics should look like and who should be responsible. This requires extensive coordination with industry, of course, but above all with Sweden's municipalities and regions. It is very, very important that this work is already under way, because, as I said, it will require a great deal of planning. Then my question to the Prime Minister is: does the government have frequent contacts with the pharmaceutical industry and, above all, when will the government decide to commission the Public Health Agency to start this work?
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-261	Madam President, I would like It is absolutely right that we should have our eyes up ahead, even though we are now in the middle of this. There are several things that need to be dealt with. One is the exit, how we get out of this with the right conditions, how we get the economy and jobs as much as possible and the vaccine issue. Sweden is already well ahead in the field of viral research. We have a far-reaching position. We are providing more funds for viral research, as well as supporting research at European level and within the framework of the World Health Organisation. There, Sweden is very active in supporting the research and ensuring that we develop a vaccine as quickly as possible. But the question is how the vaccine should be distributed, because one can see a situation in which, of course, everyone wants to stand at the front of the queue to get the vaccine. Then it is important that we have some order for this. That is why we have initiated this discussion in the World Health Organisation so that we can have an orderly approach to this. The answer to the question of contact with the pharmaceutical industry is: Yes, we are, of course, in close dialogue with the pharmaceutical industry about their views on the possibilities of obtaining a vaccine. We need to think broad there. How should the vaccine be developed, and where should it be manufactured? I think we should also look at the possibility of Nordic cooperation so that once the vaccine is there, we can deal with the question of how we get it in manufacturing as quickly as possible and how it should be distributed in the best possible way. We are on this issue in Sweden, within the framework of EU cooperation and also in the World Health Organisation.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-265	Madam President, I would like I think it is very positive that the Prime Minister and the Government point precisely to the need for research, also in international collaboration. But the big problem that we will have is how this will then work in practice in our country. There are many of us who remember the vaccinations against swine flu and what big problems we had then in Sweden to make it work. Then it was still a much simpler process. I relate to Ulf Kristersson's question about the problems of testing in Sweden, that we have a concern in a situation where 21 regions are responsible. I think that we should use the good time that we hopefully now have until the vaccines are ready to give the Public Health Agency the task right now to start planning for and developing a strategy, so that once the phone rings and the vaccine is ready we should just have to press the button. Then we should not have to discuss how it should be used, who should have it and how this should be done.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-268	Madam President, I would like I may have been unclear, but I share the view that the issue of distribution must also be clarified in Sweden. It is an issue at European and global level, but also at Swedish level, so yes, we must have a national strategy for how to implement vaccination in the fastest and most effective way without, for that reason, thinking away from existing structures. We can coordinate it in a good way. We must give the answer to the people of the country that this should be done as quickly as possible, as fairly as possible, and so on.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-270	Madam President, Prime Minister Löfven. Around our hospitals and nursing homes, the staff work frantically and heroically to care for those affected by the Corona virus. Many intensive care departments work in twelve-hour shifts. Many do not have a single free weekend behind them or in front of them in the near future. You're making amazing efforts. In elderly care, sick leave rates are high. Many have to go in and take extra passports, many have had inadequate protective equipment and many worry about getting infected themselves and having too few colleagues, for example. It is an admirable work that is being done. At the same time, many of those who are now working hard in health care know that there may not be a holiday week this summer. Maybe they'll be working all summer. This is also the case in parts of elderly care in Sweden. I think we should give those who work there a promise, and the promise should be: It will be better. Your working conditions will improve once the crisis is over. There will be a higher staff density. There are going to be more care places. There will be better vocational training. We know it was fragile even before. In Stockholm County Council there was a notice of major redundancies. Västra Götaland has a large deficit that should be managed through savings. The economic crisis in the Region of Jämtland Härjedalen is acute. Nine out of ten municipalities plan reductions in care for the elderly. The Left Party therefore wants to make a new, substantial addition to municipalities and regions so that those who are now working so hard will know that it will be better. The time for constantly planing, cutting, saving and privatising should be over. Now it's gonna get better. That is why this week we have proposed a proper addition of this kind.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-277	Madam President, I would like I share the view that it will be better, and I believe that the improvement has begun. It already took place during the last parliamentary term. There are more people now employed in care for the elderly, about 5,000 more. There are more employees in health care – I think this is about 13 000. In the public sector, there are 100,000 more employees. We took the initiative to regulate so that full-time, not part-time, should be normal and the starting point. It is we who have raised and pushed the issue of working clothes in the care of the elderly. This should have been done many decades ago, but now it is actually under way. We must continue to do this, and the message to the staff is that there must be more resources. The Swedish Municipalities and Regions presented their report this week. They say they see a need for another 8 billion for 2021, not 2020. We have a situation in which Sweden's municipalities – I know that there is a difference between them – together we made 17 billion in profit last year. This year, I think it's 12 billion. It may be lower too– I don't have the exact number. On the other hand, it can be seen that the regions have a really tough economic situation, if you look at it all together for municipalities and regions. I think Jonas Sjöstedt got the answer from the Minister of Finance the other night – I don't remember if it was in News or Report – that we are constantly looking at this. We have added historically large amounts. We have told municipalities and regions that we are taking all the extra costs and that they should not be allowed to stop but do what they are supposed to do. The government takes all the extra costs. In addition, there is a historically large addition to general contributions, and I assume that's why SKR has reasoned as they have – that they want to see another 8 billion for 2021. We are not alien to additional supplements, but then it should be prepared so that we know that it can be handled.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-282	Madam President, I would like I interpret the Prime Minister's reply positively – that we are looking at further additions. It's going to be necessary. What the Swedish Municipalities and Regions hope for is that it will not get worse than they thought. What was thought? Well, it was known that nine out of ten municipalities are planning reductions in care for the elderly. This is what we hope will not get any worse. We know what it looks like. Even rich regions such as Stockholm are planning major redundancies, which have now been withdrawn, by health workers who are needed. There is a savings bet of 1 billion in Västra Götaland which they shoot ahead of them. We also know how the need for care and the debt of care are growing. It will not be possible to do this and to do it better for those who are now working on our intensive care departments and retirement homes unless additional funds are made available. That is why the Left Party calls on the government to meet with us.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-284	Madam President, I would like As I said, we have already answered the question. We are constantly looking at the possibilities that exist. However, we must focus on one more thing, and that is that it is not clear that everything is peace and joy when the crisis is over. There may well be another crisis of a very different kind, and then we cannot have put ourselves in a situation where we cannot do anything. We must be able to pay for welfare in the long term. I am absolutely sure that when we kick-start the economy again, we will discuss how much infrastructure we should have. We have just discussed the schools and what else to do there. We have older people to take care of and have a good pension. We see an increase in the proportion of older people in our population. We need to think so that we know we're doing the right thing right here and now and that it's holding. It should be sustainable in the long term so that we can guarantee prosperity in both five, ten and fifteen years.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-288	Madam President, I would like The number of patients treated for Corona at IVA has started to decrease slightly while the death rates appear to fall. Several countries across Europe are now easing their restrictions, but the pandemic is far from over. It's important to say. It is still too early to draw conclusions, but we also need to start a discussion on future scenarios for Sweden. We know that there is not only one way to deal with the spread of infection, as the Public Health Agency has pointed out many times, partly because every strategy has its advantages and disadvantages. That is why the question of how to deal with the Wuhan virus is also a question of political leadership, because ultimately it is the government and we in this House that have to choose between the different strategies that expertise can propose and between their various advantages and disadvantages. It is therefore important to have a high level of transparency. Democracy is based on the fact that it is the people who choose who will lead the country and that it is the people who choose the leadership that will ultimately make the decisive decision. But for the people to be able to fulfil their democratic role, they need to know what the government has had the basis for their decisions and what pros and cons have been weighed against each other. This is one reason why we in Sweden have public investigations and investigation obligations. As we understand it, the Swedish Public Health Agency expects to give an opinion at the end of May on how Sweden will handle the summer. My question to the Prime Minister is: In what way will several different scenarios and strategies for this be presented and presented so that the government's decisions will be transparent and democratically anchored so that we can all help create a high popular legitimacy for Sweden's continued Corona strategy?
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-292	Madam President, I would like As I think I mentioned during this week's party leader talks, there is a discussion with, among others, the Swedish Public Health Agency about how summer should be handled in terms of both travel and other things. We still have the firm belief that we have a long way to go in the crisis. It's far from over. At best, we're at the end of the beginning. That is why we must have such an entrance now. There is a dialogue going on, and when we see that we have something firm to take on or alternatives, it should of course be taken up in the party leadership talks. I'd like to have more recordings, as we've had so far. I am grateful for the dialogue. We are not quite there yet, but we need more knowledge, research and, not least, international outlook. Now that we see that some countries are beginning to open up, we also see that things are happening there. The so-called R century in Germany is one such thing. Others see that there may be a second wave. We must follow this as long as we can to see how we can get the best informed conclusions, but it must not be so late that we cannot tell the Swedish people in good time how we view it. We are working on this, and we intend to return to the party leader circle when we have something to report.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-296	Madam President, I would like I really agree with the Prime Minister's emphasis on what I said earlier, that the crisis is far from over. I share the Prime Minister's view that it is important to follow the advice of the experts and to trust those with great expertise. But that's why we're seeing an opportunity for greater transparency in the future than we've had so far. What I am asking, then, is how the various possible expert strategies and their pros and cons will be presented to the people and to the elected representatives. It is true that we have regular meetings. I have repeatedly expressed my gratitude and appreciation for them, but we have not presented this type of scenario thinking, which I think would be good for popular legitimacy in the future as well. I do not want to see any risk of democratic deficit, and that is why I am already asking the Prime Minister: will he ensure that different scenarios and strategies are presented to the people in order to increase legitimacy also in the future?
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-299	Madam President, I would like I think it will happen on its own, so to speak. When the decisions on how to proceed are presented, there will also be a discussion of what options we had. It's pretty natural. It is not meant to be polemic against Ebba Busch, but we will not have time to have a broad discussion about the different options and get stuck for one of them. We will have to do this carefully and then come to a decision. We have expert authorities, but last and last and last, the decision that Parliament must make. If Parliament's support is required for something, we must come here, but I cannot see now that it will be necessary. We will have to explain what balance has been struck and on what basis. I think it's going to give itself up.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-303	Madam President, I would like Death rates in Sweden are horrifying in this pandemic. The heroes of health care and care are undeniably on their knees. We have a young generation whose future would be bright, but right now you are faced with unemployment queues. We see loneliness being strengthened, and in its wake – in quarantine – mental illness is growing and, at worst, violence against those who are already vulnerable. I received reports this morning that students generally risk losing much of the knowledge that they have the right to bring with them for the future to meet their own challenges. The Liberals in this Parliament have so far together with other parties, together with the government and together with our authorities tried to take our responsibility to reduce suffering, to support those who work in the front line and to save Swedish companies so that we can be as whole as possible once this is over. But it's a bit there. There are now, in addition to what we hear from the government, reports from the Swedish Financial Control Agency, Konjunkturinstitutet and Business Sweden that there can be very serious financial consequences. And with these economic consequences comes the impact on people in everyday life. This can lead to even greater problems. We from the Liberals believe that we need to start pointing out what we should do in Sweden to manage the economy and jobs. Now we've saved some emergency. But we cannot continue to enter money for layoffs. We have to do other things. We Liberals have pointed out the need for public investment and strategic tax cuts and for our state-owned companies to be allowed to invest more. What does the Prime Minister think about this direction?
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-308	Madam President, I would like I share Johan Pehrson's description of the complexity and how much this is all about. It is about health care, but also about loneliness and not least the violence that we know occurs within the walls of the home. The European Institute for Gender Equality is beginning to describe what is happening in societies that have been shut down by a substantial increase in violence. We must, of course, follow this up here at home too. That is why we are also providing resources for those organisations that can help people in this situation. As far as businesses and jobs are concerned, I also share the point of departure that, once we are through the emergency situation, it is important for us to focus on what actually gives jobs. It is through jobs that we can once again ensure, in the fastest possible way, that welfare can be financed. That must be a priority. Then we must first begin to discuss how big the space really is. We should have something hum about whether there is any overall picture of how much space is forward, perhaps ten years ahead, given a certain growth if you have to forecast. We must also maximise a certain amount of public debt. On this basis, it is the traditional quantities that need to be discussed. How much should be spent on public investment, infrastructure, housing and so on – public consumption? Here we have an infinite need in welfare. But it is also about private consumption, because private consumption will also support growth, not least in service industries. They are based on the fact that people can afford to go to a café, a restaurant, and so on. This must also be ensured. Within these three grandeurs, I can see that we need to do some kind of distribution and balancing. All three are necessary to get the economy going as quickly as possible.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-312	Madam President, I would like It is clear to the Liberals that we need to continue to do things to deal with the acute crisis. As the previous questioner and also the Prime Minister said, the crisis is not over; we are in the midst of it. Young people may fall behind in school. There are reports that they do much less sports. The only place where activity is increasing is among the criminal gangs, according to reports from Rimfrost. There's a lot of work going on from the police. But we also see that the shootings and gang activity do not decrease but continue at a much too high level. It is clear to the Liberals that without companies Sweden stays. They are the foundation of our prosperity in the future. Now that we are saving many, we must nevertheless make sure that we move from passivity in layoffs to investments in order to ensure that we also create values in Sweden in order to create tax power. That's how we build prosperity in the future. I therefore hope that the Prime Minister looks forward to future talks on this.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-314	Madam President, I would like There will be such conversations, and they are already in progress. Already in this emergency situation we have a matching task simply to take on and ensure that those who now become unemployed are channelled as quickly as possible over to where there are actually jobs. There are vacancies in a few places. But then we will in all likelihood have a new situation also in large parts of Swedish business. There is, in fact, another item of expenditure that we have to manage. It is about education – labour market training and vocational training. We have already added more places of study at, for example, the University of Applied Sciences and Yrkesvux. We must, in all likelihood, continue to do so. All this will be decided at budget talks. However, if we are really to ensure that people get to work as quickly as possible, they must also have the right education. This conversation will definitely continue.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-316	Madam President, I would like An important task that I and everyone else here have is to talk politics with our citizens – to hold talks. In these times citizens have, of course, both questions and views regarding the fight against the Corona virus. A common question that I have to ask is the abolition of the withdrawal from health insurance. Many feel that it does not really live up to what they had thought. Instead of getting 80%, you get a flat-rate allowance. Can the Prime Minister say anything about why the government has dealt with it in this way and why it has to seek compensation afterwards?
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-319	Madam President, I would like We have the health insurance system that we have when this pandemic comes in, and here it goes. It was important for us to quickly put in place a system that would discourage people to the minimum extent possible from staying at home, and then this withdrawal is one way. If you lose a day's income, you may hesitate to stay at home if you have a tight economy. It was a matter of getting a system in place quickly. This was the fastest way we could get to this. It was the easiest way. Yes, you have to make an application. However, an application does not require a pre-determined sickness benefit. And introducing a flat rate was the fastest way. Now we have also increased this amount, and that corresponds to the highest possible amount of sickness benefit. So it was fast in place. In fact, with a flat-rate amount, those with the lowest incomes receive a favourable income.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-323	Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemia hits our entire society hard. However, there are some who are at risk of being particularly vulnerable. Being isolated in your home with a controlling or violent partner, parent or family risks increasing vulnerability. This applies not least to children and young people, women and LGBTQ people. More and more people warn of increased risks when everyday safety nets, such as going to school or work or meeting teachers or friends, disappear.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-326	Madam President, I would like I share Annika Hirvonen Falk's picture. I also mentioned this in a previous reply. It's so obvious. Nor is it difficult to imagine what happens to a person who is normally subjected to violence or abuse but may still come out, goes to work, school or whatever you do, but can't do it anymore. It is easy to imagine what that existence is like. The government believes that very good work is being done, not least by NGOs and non-profit organisations. That's why we're adding a lot of resources, so they'll have even better opportunities to have contact with these people and do what goes. For a number of years now we have a strategy precisely to prevent men's violence against women. It also includes the knowledge and opportunities of health care and schools to work on these issues. We must never take a break in the fight against violence.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-330	Madam President, I would like The Swedish companies are bleeding because of the coronapndemine. Our restaurants and hotels have reduced demand due to both reduced travel and the call for people to work remotely. Nor should we spend more time with each other than in smaller groups and with a proper distance from each other. This means that we do not go to a restaurant or stay in hotels to the same extent as otherwise. Travelling should also be avoided. All of these are necessary measures. The manufacturing industry has been shut down due to a lack of components. Now demand is also uncertain. No one knows, for obvious reasons, how long this will last. During March and April, the government granted direct support to companies depending on the situation. But Sweden has still not got started. Many companies now wonder how they can survive. For some companies, direct aid is the only way to prevent bankruptcy. Will the government grant direct aid even in current and future months?
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-334	Madam President, I would like We have designed the support to ensure that as many companies as possible survive and that as few jobs as possible are lost. Now 400 000 people are covered by the aid agreements for lay-off wages and short-term work. We also use the tax accounts and reduce sick pay costs. All of this makes a difference. The Institute of Economics estimated that only the lay-off wage mechanism saves just under 200,000 jobs. We have always said that we are constantly looking at this and whether something more needs to be done. But now there are hundreds of billions in liquidity investments, as are guarantees of 200 - 300. So it's somewhere over 500 billion. Can we get up in there and do more? Of course, we do not rule that out. We'll do the best we can. But we will also have ammunition left on the day the crisis is over.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-337	Madam President, I would like Elderly care has been underfunded for a long time, and staff have had poor working conditions. Unfortunately, it has also been an integration project. This has meant that staff have worked despite symptoms of covid-19 and without being able to handle infected elderly people, perform basic hygiene or understand new guidelines. The government was caught on the bed by the shortcomings and has acted far too late. In the shadow of relatives' restraining order, where many have been deprived of the opportunity to hold their hand or caress a dear cheek one last time, protective equipment, tests and trained staff have also been lacking. And fragile older people have still been killed by the virus. Madam President, I would like Prime Minister! Why did the government allow the virus to spread so uncontrollably in Sweden's retirement homes, even though you had promised that our elderly would be protected? And what will the government do now to stop the great mortality?
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-340	Madam President, I would like The problem of infected and killed in retirement homes is quite wide across Europe. I mean that things should have gone better in Sweden. That was the intention. We asked early, ‘ Why is that? ' Is it the visits that cause the infection, or is it the staff? It could be both. Without making a final assessment, however, there is much to suggest that it was precisely the staff. Since the last parliamentary term, we have been working on more people being in care for the elderly. Therefore, there are now more people in care for the elderly. That also applies to work clothes. More people will be trained so that we can have good care for the elderly. It's started. But we will have to do more. That is why we must now devote even more resources to welfare and ensure that it is sustainable and long-term. The municipalities will then see that they can have employees, and they should have good conditions.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-344	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister! One of the sectors that has been severely affected is the organisers of package tours and entertainment events. In practice, they have been grounded for three months. The statement given yesterday by the Prime Minister on further travel restrictions until 15 July also extinguishs any hope of activity this summer. In our Nordic neighbours, the governments have decided on loans to package travel companies. Our government has commissioned Kammarkollegiet to investigate the circumstances in which vouchers or gift cards can be used as compensation for already paid travel. Companies that have lost their entire clientele in a short time have claims against the aviation and hotel industry of up to 2 billion and are expected to replace travellers for already cancelled arrangements. They also do not see any possibility of further sales for the foreseeable future. Nine out of ten expect bankruptcy.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-347	Madam President, I would like Of course, the organizers are severely affected by these trips, because we have a situation like ours. The first thing we need to think about is the spread of infection. The packages that have been presented to support the Swedish business community are historically large. These are directly budgetary measures but also measures to keep liquidity going. For example, we offer guarantees. I do not know the rules in detail and therefore do not know exactly which companies are hit by them. But the intention is for companies to survive this period in order to get started as quickly as possible. So, as far as the details are concerned, I am bound to be responsible for the answer. I don't know exactly who's hit by it. But the whole point of the initiative is that the business community will be able to cope with various measures, such as direct cost reductions, loan opportunities and guarantees. We are prepared to take more action if necessary and follow this very closely.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-351	Madam President, I would like Even before the pandemic, Swedish health care was affected by ever-longer care queues. During Stefan Lövven's time as Prime Minister, we have seen doubled care queues. I am concerned that there are those who believe that when the pandemic starts to ebb out, the health crises are also over. That is not the case at all. On the contrary, we are now building up a huge health debt. To the existing queues we also add the health debt that is currently being built up. The health debt that is now being built up cannot be seen as just a matter for the regions. It must be seen as a national matter, just like the pandemic. That is why we Christian Democrats are asking whether the Prime Minister is prepared to assume a national responsibility by setting up a group of experts to look at how to deal with the health debt. The whole of Sweden would then be seen as a whole, and we would take responsibility for all patients throughout Sweden.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-354	Madam President, I would like It is quite correct that we have a health debt ahead of us. And I'm afraid it can last a long time. The activities are carried out and must be carried out in and by the regions. The national responsibility for its functioning applies to the staff. Are there enough staff and trained staff? That is why we are increasing the number of training places considerably, and we continue to do so. More people should be able to have the right skills to work in health care. We must continue to do that. As far as the resources for hiring these people are concerned, we are also increasing the overall contribution to the regions. In the case of an expert group, support may also be needed. But, finally, this must be resolved in a work organisation negotiation. What will it look like in each hospital, for example, to manage this? It is not an expert group that is capable of doing so, but it must be resolved by the parties. Then they may need support to do so.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-358	Madam President, I would like The government has made a huge effort to save jobs and businesses. It is a question of historical aid that we have not seen before. But it is also a unique crisis. Right now I get a lot of questions from self-employed people. Many of them have chosen to operate in their own company form. I am contacted by people who are working very hard for their business idea but have lost a large part of their customers due to the Corona epidemic. One problem that they experience is that some of the support measures that the government has done so far do not really suit them. For example, they cannot give themselves short-term leave. The question to the Prime Minister is how he views the financial situation of people who run an individual firm and whether there is any possibility for them to benefit from state aid.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-361	Madam President, I would like That is quite right – lay-off does not include self-employed workers. You can't lay off yourself. However, a number of other measures are also aimed at self-employed workers. Unemployment insurance can be used in a different way than was possible in the past. It is also the case that we reduce the payment of contributions. Now it is the old-age pension contribution that you pay, not the other contributions. You can get money back on the tax account to be able to cope with the liquidity and then set it off against the results of the coming years. Moreover, there are guarantees that can also be covered by self-employed workers, if I am properly informed. When we have discussed these packages, we have seen that we have a lot of self-employed people who must also be given the opportunity to do this. I recently talked to my hairdresser, who has also noticed the support.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-365	Madam President, I would like For people who have reduced lung capacity, who have transplanted organs or who, as a result of tough cancer treatments, have a weakened immune system and for all the other people at risk groups, infection from covid-19 is a matter of life and death. Some can work from home, but far from everyone can. For many of these people, the situation is now desperate. You're at the bottom of your wallet, you're out of holiday weeks, you're borrowing from loved ones, and you're actually even forced to take SMS loans. I asked the Prime Minister a month ago what the government is going to do for these people. Then the Prime Minister couldn't answer. But now the government has had a few more weeks to work on the issue. What is the Prime Minister's answer to these people?
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-367	Madam President, I would like Of course, we have worked to ensure that the groups mentioned here also have protection. There is also a decision here in the Swedish Parliament that this should be the case, so the government works with that. However, this is not easy. There is already a disease carrier's allowance for those who are infected. Now something completely new is to be introduced. You shouldn't get infected. It is a whole new system that may actually require a long litany in itself. The decision also says that the government should implement a system that, firstly, is very legally secure and, secondly, must not involve more administration. The two parameters are very difficult to reconcile. We are now working with the committee responsible in Parliament to see if we can get something faster. With the parameters now on the table, it is very difficult. It's complicated to get this in place.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-372	Madam President, I would like The evening post today writes about how Sölvesborg has acted to protect the elderly from infection. Co-government has taken political responsibility and time after time there have been both government recommendations and other municipalities. Early on, a restraining order was introduced in the care of the elderly and a telephone line was set up for home delivery of food to the elderly. Now they have ordered protective equipment and chosen to create isolated places in retirement homes to limit the spread of infection, even though only one person in the care of the elderly has confirmed infection. This has resulted in increased support in public opinion, and lives have probably been saved. Can the Prime Minister imagine being inspired by political responsibility in Sölvesborg and taking the initiative to spread the Sölvesborg model to other parts of the country?
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-374	Madam President, I would like Advertising for Sölvesborg! As regards the problem of care for the elderly, we see that there are differences between regions and within regions. Exactly what they depend on is a little hard to answer right now. The restraining order was an early recommendation which, in our opinion, was followed by the vast majority. But the staff began to tell us that it was difficult to refuse family members to enter. That was when we were legislating for it to be sustainable. But even before that, that restraining order probably worked. Now, of course, it is important to ensure that the staff are not infected. That is why testing should be carried out, including by staff. The various residents deal with the question of how to isolate in the best possible way those who are actually infected. I think there are a variety of things we can learn from from different municipalities. We have to do that, because this is supposed to work better.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-380	Madam President, I would like At present, the LRF, the National Federation of Farmers, warns that Swedish harvests may be wasted due to a shortage of labour. This also puts growers at risk of going bankrupt. Around 8 000 seasonal workers come from abroad every year, of which about 5 000 to the horticulture industry. They pick vegetables in the open and in greenhouses on berry and fruit crops. In Sweden, as in many other European countries, the problem is closed borders which make it impossible for the workers who are used to the work to be able to help the growers. Several countries are acting to solve this. However, the Swedish Government does not. At the same time, we have over 120 000 people who have registered as unemployed at the Employment Service. Many Swedes now wonder why the question of labour for Swedish crops is still not solved. Does the Prime Minister think that the unemployed should be allowed to turn down these jobs?
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-384	Madam President, I would like The labour force has often come from outside the EU. Now we have a ban that means that there is no labour from there. Is there, then, the possibility of labour from countries within the EU? Yes, there is, but I'm sure it won't be enough. So, of course, we must ensure that the unemployed who are here in Sweden also participate in this. For this reason, we have a wide-ranging discussion with the industry on how to ensure that people can be trained as quickly as possible and get employment to ensure that they are able to cope with the crops that we need to manage. That discussion is ongoing. Therefore, the claim is that we are not doing anything wrong. We have a close dialogue with the industry to ensure that both agriculture and horticulture and forestry can be managed in the best possible way. This requires, among other things, education, and we are starting with it.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-386	Madam President, I would like Denmark closed its borders in mid-March to stop the spread of Corona. There are still special reasons, such as work in Denmark, to cross the Öresund Bridge, despite the fact that the number of infected people in Skåne is significantly lower than on the other side of Sundet. Yesterday it was announced that Denmark and Germany have long-standing talks about opening the border between the two countries. Similar talks between Sweden and Denmark would be very desirable. The Danish closure of the border with Skåne is devastating for integration in the Öresund region and affects both the business community and the people living in Skåne very negatively.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-389	Madam President, I would like I share Boriana Åberg's analysis here. In fact, much more people are infected and ill on the Danish side. It looks different in different countries. Our main line has always been that we must act together in the European Union. We should have done it much better when we entered the crisis. It wasn't done. Some closed the border, some imposed export restrictions and so on. It wasn't handled well. Then, however, we managed to clarify some things jointly within the EU, but now it is the same. Now that this is to be relaxed, it must be coordinated. It was the Commission's message yesterday that this is how it should be done. That is Sweden's line. Differences are not made within the EU. Now some countries do it anyway. The Baltic countries did so. Our strategy is to ensure that we have joint action within the European Union. It would be best for the region down there, but it would also be best for the whole of Europe.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-394	Madam President, I would like Sweden needs the outside world more than the outside world needs Sweden. This insight is an important reason for Swedish EU membership. One of the core values of the EU is that Member States are expected to help each other when the need arises, simply solidarity. We all remember well how Polish firefighters helped to fight the forest fires that ravaged Sweden in the summer of 20-18, for example. There are now plenty of examples of EU countries which, during the Corona crisis, help with medical personnel and protective equipment to those countries that are most vulnerable. Some examples of similar help from Sweden are more difficult to find. I think this can cost Sweden dearly in the forthcoming negotiations on, for example, the EU's long-term budget. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister how he views the possibility of offering more help from Sweden. Does Sweden have any plans to offer more in the form of assistance to other EU countries?
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-398	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg refers to the importance of EU cooperation. There is also a discussion that is extremely important to us about a future long-term budget that will eventually ensure that we manage a good business. I do not share the view that Sweden is doing nothing within the framework of EU cooperation. We have been and will be net contributors. We have offered intensive care places to Finland. We have also participated in the cooperation on travel to bring home our citizens from other parts of the world and will continue to do so. Of course, we are also looking to take stock of what more we can do concretely. Solidarity is for us not to close the borders, as some countries have done. It is not imposing export restrictions. When I have spoken to my colleagues in other countries, I have been able to say: we do not do this, but from Sweden there are still deliveries of responsors to you who actually need it. That is another way of showing solidarity.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-401	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Prime Minister about research in this area. Sweden has a prominent industry, and Sweden has prominent researchers. Research on drugs is extremely important. But it is also about research in a broader perspective about the new coronavirus that we have no knowledge of before. It's about basic research into the virus. It's about spreading. It's about medicine and care. I can stand here and rumble up one area after another. Here, Sweden could make a fantastic effort both alone as a nation but also in cooperation with other countries. It's extremely important. How does the Prime Minister view this issue? What is the Prime Minister prepared to do to enable Sweden to take on the leading role in a broad perspective when it comes to the important research concerning Corona?
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-406	Madam President, I would like Margareta Cederfelt points to a very important area where Sweden is well ahead. We should not be content with that, but we are at the forefront of that kind of research. We support domestic research in Sweden but also the EU research that is being carried out, and we are part of the WHO cooperation, in order to ensure that research is as effective as possible. We must get the production and distribution of this vaccine started as quickly as possible. This applies not least to clinical research, where we are active. Now it has its special problem at this stage with a heavily burdened medical care. Otherwise, we believe that clinical research is extremely important in order to get far ahead. Sweden is investing nationally, and we are involved in EU cooperation. We are part of the WHO cooperation. That's how we're gonna be. Sweden enjoys great respect for the know-how we have built up over the years. That's what we're gonna use.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-411	Madam President, I would like Before the election, we warned Moderates in Umeå about the crime development we saw at the time. We were accused by the Prime Minister's party comrades locally for blacking out. Cars burning had electrical faults, and it was at least worse in other places than Umeå. Since the election, we've had shootings. We've had shootings. We have had seven car fires only since February, with about seventy cars burning up, and greatly increased insecurity. Norrland has cities with growing problems. We are also responsible for rural areas, sparsely populated areas and long distances with everything that that means. We are therefore disadvantaged in the distribution of police resources. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: Is the Prime Minister prepared to redistribute the police's resources to the North so that it can deal with both the growing urban problem and that which is a responsibility for rural areas, sparsely populated areas and long distances?
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-415	Madam President, I would like Since we took office, we have made sure that we are constantly investing in more police forces and that the police should have better tools, better regulation and better technical tools. The police should have the opportunity for better cooperation with other authorities and social services in order for us to be able to work preventively. It's a broad program that's started. We have to do more. We see, not least, that the development of shootings and explosions is not good. If you look specifically at Malmö we have a different situation. Work needs to be broadened. I believe that the Police Authority is best placed to distribute the personnel within the agency. We have long been in broad agreement across party boundaries that we should have a police authority. The purpose of this was to enable it to act as a police authority. It governs how employees are to be distributed. You can also redistribute within the Police Authority when necessary. I think that order is still the best.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-417	Madam President, I would like I listened carefully to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who indicated that the European security regime should be defended. That is, of course, right. But in reality it weakens. The risk of a new Potemkinskuliss is obvious. What measures does the Minister of Foreign Affairs envisage in order to strengthen the security regime, or at least to ensure that it is not weakened further? What are the measures that the Minister for Foreign Affairs sees? The Foreign Minister also mentioned that responsibility should be claimed for breaches of the security regime. The clearer violation of the security regime is the Russian aggression in both Georgia and Ukraine. One can then think about what the Minister for Foreign Affairs thinks about responsibility in this particular matter. We now see citizens from Ukraine living in Crimea in the Russian Armed Forces taking part in aggression in eastern Ukraine, against their own people. It is a flagrant violation of international law. How is responsibility for such measures claimed? Finally, on what is claimed about a third dimension of human rights: Russia is now presiding to become a member of the UN Human Rights Council. There it is clear how Russia views human rights. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take a big fight about this in the OSSE?
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-421	Madam President, I would like With regard to measures to strengthen the European security regime, I believe that the absolute best thing is to stand up for this both multilaterally and in bilateral talks at every opportunity. For example, I have raised this directly with the Russian Foreign Minister, Mr Lavrov, and also directly with France and the French Foreign Minister. Some who have come up in their various speeches and so on have pointed out that they might want to weaken to some extent – I would say – the European security regime. Then it is important to go straight in and say: if you see it this way, the European security regime will be weakened. I have raised this also in the context of the European Union and at the EU ministerial meetings. For example, the issue of sanctions against Russia and Georgia is not only an issue which affects precisely these conflicts, but is also a matter for the whole security regime. Russia's aggression against Ukraine is also observed every week in the so-called Permanent Council of the OSSE. It is clear that the accountability that takes place every week, year in and year out, plays an important role in maintaining the integrity of the European security regime. The alternative would have been that we had been silent there with regard to the crimes that have been committed, and that would be normalising the behaviour and de facto giving Russia space, for example, and that this would be perceived as an acceptance.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-425	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is good to raise bilateral talks. However, many have tried that way, and if you see that power in practice takes precedence over right, it is clear which path the large countries are taking. And it is not just Russia; there are others who have the same model. That is why it is important, Madam President, to speak clearly – and not just bilaterally in the quiet rooms. One should be clear in the criticism. I take note of the issue of sanctions, which is of course an important issue. Here, obviously, the Russian Duma has ambitions in the UN to act with covid as a cover to lift sanctions. But it has also clearly acted and written to us that all parliamentary organisations and all organisations intend to work to lift the sanctions, which they consider politically motivated or otherwise discriminatory. We are talking about double standards. This has been tried for quite some time. The next item is the Council of Europe. Last year, Madam President, the Swedish Government and the others were prepared to change the rules in order to give Russia the right to join. It has been seen, then, that regulations can be changed. Madam President, I would like I very much hope that Sweden will take a clear stand against this when it comes to the OSSE and be prepared not only to speak quietly but also openly when Russia and others are acting in breach of the acquis.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-430	Madam President, I would like Kerstin Lundgren is absolutely right; you should not be silent in the criticism. That is precisely why we are never silent in criticism. Both the government, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister and the EU Minister have repeatedly publicly, in the media, in social media and in the meetings that we have repeated this criticism. There's a really good track record. In addition, we are trying to influence by, for example, sending protests to Russia using covid-19 to restrict the freedom of movement of the OSCE SMM mission. Unfortunately, this did not receive a good response from Russia, but it chose to simply send back the protest and say that it had no part in the conflict. Nevertheless, it was an attempt by the Troika to make a formal diplomatic protest. I think that is important, and we have also been open about this to mark it out. As far as sanctions are concerned, we are clear that we believe that they should remain. After a number of years or because of the pandemic or anything else, the sanctioning instrument should not be relaxed. It would give the impression that, for example, there are a certain number of years that are the price for annexing another country, particular land or different parts of another country and that it would then be okay. It's not okay. There is no time limit for violating international law, but that crime remains. With regard to the Parliamentary Assembly, it has always been the view of the government that the Assembly itself decides who is in and who is not in it. We leave this to the Members of Parliament to decide.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-435	Madam President, I would like Men's violence against women is a well-known problem in all countries of the OSSE. Although some countries have come some way, there is no country where men's violence against women is taken seriously enough so that women can feel safe in their homes. On the other hand, there are some OSSE countries where men's violence against women is widespread and where impunity is high. Russia is one of the worst examples of around 10 000 feminicides every year. Protection laws are largely non-existent. LGBTQ people and LGBTQ activists also live under extreme threats in some OSCE countries. Poland has introduced LGBT-free zones, and in Chechnya LGBTQ people are subjected to severe violence without judicial action. At the same time, we are seeing the shrinking space of civil society organisations being increasingly restricted. This is happening to a large extent in many of the OSCE Member States. Those who stand up for human rights are under severe pressure. These are issues that I know are important for the government, so I want to know how Foreign Minister Ann Linde intends to use her role as Chairman of the OSSE to get these important issues moving. It is necessary not only for people who are personally exposed but also for societies as a whole when their citizens are not allowed to operate in a democratic society according to human rights.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-440	Madam President, I would like Let me begin with the question of the rights of LGBT people. I can tell you that what is now happening concerns me a lot, which has caused me to call up the most important and largest federations of LGBT organisations, namely Ilga. I had a long talk with them yesterday and heard their analysis of the situation and where it is particularly problematic right now. I have been working on these issues for several decades, so I am very keen that Sweden, now that we also have the OSCE Presidency, will continue to be active in this. A clear example of Sweden being active is that in 2018 we, together with 15 other countries, activated the so-called Moscow mechanism, which aims to investigate suspicions of serious abuse of LGBT people in Chechnya. Russia did not cooperate with the Commission even though a solid report was produced. When it comes to men's violence against women, it is one of the things that is now causing the greatest concern during the pandemic. We have seen an increase in men's violence against women of up to 35% in some countries. It shows how vulnerable women are, not least in a situation like a pandemic. In addition, we see how the issues of sexual and reproductive health and rights have been pushed back with the argument that it is not as important in such a crisis situation. I will work hard to counteract that. I'll have to get back to civil society.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-445	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde, for your answer. This particular Commission in Chechnya, where the Moscow mechanism was deployed, was also highlighted in my speech. It is one of the OSCE's forces, so I hope it will be used on more occasions. These are, as I said, extremely important issues, especially now that countries in the name of the pandemic are taking the opportunity to impair people's rights. America is a very important power in the world. The country is, as everyone knows, led by a President who is capricious and apparently not so fond of multilateral organisations or international cooperation. Among other things, the President has suspended support for UNFPA, Unrwa and WHO. Now it seems that Trump will ensure that the US leaves Open Skies, which is a very important security policy instrument. The fact that the countries included in Open Skies with unarmed planes can fly across all the territories included in the agreement means that there is transparency about the military capabilities of countries. It also provides an opportunity for dialogue between the countries included in Open Skies. This is of course worrying for the OSSE as an organisation, but Trumps's attitude to multilateralism is worrying for the entire international community. I would therefore like to ask Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde whether there are more opportunities for dialogue with the United States through the OSSE Presidency and, if so, how the Minister for Foreign Affairs will make use of this opportunity to press for the importance of multilateralism and international cooperation agreements.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-450	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. We are right to see that the United States is withdrawing from multilateral cooperation in several places. For example, Open Skies is an agreement that Sweden values very highly. We are actually one of the few countries in the world that have their own observation flights for Open Skies. We have closely followed the signals that the United States is now considering leaving the agreement. We try to bring it up in every contact with the United States. I've had a long talk myself... which was actually very good... with Foreign Minister Pompeo. Although we felt very different on many issues, we could have a real discussion. Open Skies was one of the issues I raised. I underlined how important this is, although we see that there is justification for some of the criticism that the United States has. For example, one should look at the possibilities of observing near Kaliningrad. However, that is no reason, we think, to withdraw. It is the same with regard to the WHO. There I asked the U.S. Secretary of State to reconsider the decision taken by the United States to withdraw its entire contribution, which is about 15%. I have to admit that I did not hear very much about this, but I think it is important to address this in concrete terms and to say that we find this problematic. Multilateralism is extremely important. I hope that the United States will be involved, because we need an active United States in multilateral work.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-454	Madam President, I would like Once again, we are going to debate a report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The committee has taken note of both the Government's letter of 2019 in the Council of Europe and the delegation's letter of the year in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It is, of course, important that we, as parliamentarians and as a parliament, have the opportunity to review and evaluate and thus also to both criticise and recommend in the debate in order to have a guiding basis for both the government and the delegation. There are those who say that reports of this kind should not be pointed out with anything, but should just take note of it. I don't think that's the way to go. Parliament's debate is about critically reviewing and evaluating the year that has passed. Madam President, I would like 2019 was an important year. It was a 70-year celebration – 70 years since the Council of Europe emerged in response from Europe's countries to what happened during the Second World War. Here we have the basis for what then came with the European Union. The 70 years one is a long time. The Council has indeed been an engine and a driver for developing our continent in the area of the rule of law, so that people have the opportunity to have a functioning judicial process if the countries deny, and to assert human rights. It is not only about the European Convention, which is probably so important – it is the basis for us and is contained in our constitution – but also about a number of other conventions that have developed during the course of the journey, not only with the text of the Convention but also with a follow-up structure that allows us to see where the path leads. It's been an important trip. We have done our homework from UN formation and the Declaration of Human Rights in the global context. As I said, it has been 70 important years. At least 60 years of that time it has been partly messy. We have also seen military coups in Member States, such as Turkey, and military rule. It hasn't always been straight-lined. Nevertheless, there has been a management of the countries that have joined. There has been some kind of drive to get into the room where human rights, democracy and the rule of law are held high and kept in focus. What has happened over the past ten years, let us say, has been a challenge for the basics of the Council of Europe – both for the Committee of Ministers, for the meeting place of governments, and for the Parliamentary Assembly. Of course, the effects of the war on Georgia had a direct impact on what happened in the Council of Europe, but also, of course, Russia's attack on Ukraine in 2014. Since 2018 and until now, in fact, the Russian finger has been playing tricks with the Council of Europe and pulled a number of other forces along the way. It has been a time when we wanted to establish the image of double standards. It tries to undermine, destabilise and question what is really universal. It has chosen to go so far as to introduce, as the first country, an opt-out for the European Court of Human Rights judgments. If they conflict with the Russian image, they no longer apply. It has been stated, and it is clear that others follow in those tracks. One might say that we experienced the undermining effects of the caviarplomatin when the corrosive acid of corruption entered the various structures of the Council of Europe – including its houses in various places. This we tried to clean up. Sweden and the Swedish delegation were an active force to try to get this up on the table and try to clean up. It was difficult matter, because what we saw was something that we have every reason to be vigilant about: that we in all party groups have Members who are protected by our parties because they are part of the gang. Then it is difficult to take this debate. It adapts, and it creates an internal power structure that makes it very difficult to overcome some of the problems we have seen. That also applies today, Madam President. What we were trying to do was to assert the power that exists in the Parliamentary Assembly, which is, of course, an advisory structure, and in the Council of Europe's Statute as regards Parliament in the form of the possibility of sanctioning a country if it violates what is laid down in basic documents signed. One such basic document is that you should not change Europe's borders by force, military violence, if you are a member. It is a fundamental idea, a base: we should not change Europe's borders by military force. We have democracy, we have the rule of law and we have the European Court of Human Rights and conventions to build functioning societies and functioning structures. But Russia chose to do this by attacking Ukraine and illegally annexing Crimea. What happened? Yes, Russia lost its right to vote. In the years since then, efforts have been made to undermine in various ways – and have succeeded. Last year, when the Council of Europe was about to celebrate 70 years, the Russian campaign succeeded in reaching and changing the regulatory framework both for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and for sanctions. The change was made drastically – it did not present its basis in January, as normally happens, but did so at the mid-year end in order to enable Russia to come back. Of course, there were economic issues in this. But, Madam President, it showed Russia that it is possible to change regulations if you just endure and are most powerful. That's what's serious about it. We have a reservation under paragraph 1, Madam President, and I support it. We should move forward with sanctioning regimes and try to recreate this. This should apply both in the Ministerial Committee and in the Parliamentary Assembly. I am deeply critical of the fact that what happened last year could be implemented, and I note that in any case the Russian media have drawn attention to the fact that we are conducting this debate. I have had the pleasure of being apostrophated in Russia Today, Tass and other media because of our motion on this. The Russians themselves have celebrated in their media that they got back the right to vote and that the discrimination that has been going on because of some rude countries and groups ended. This is bad. In this part, as we see it, Madam President, it will not be approved for 2019.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-473	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the motion in the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report on the Council of Europe and, therefore, for the rejection of the reservation. Europe and the Council of Europe are going through a trying time in several respects. The development and commitment of the core values of the Council of Europe to human rights, democracy and the rule of law are worrying in a number of areas. It can be about the subject areas of the Council of Europe but also its geographical areas. The Council of Europe plays a central role in the European security regime. This is particularly true through the European Convention on Human Rights. Democracy and the rule of law are also part of the main tasks and are important elements of the broad concept of security. The negative democratic development that we are witnessing in many places underlines the need for a strong voice that protects democracy and its institutions. Madam President, I would like The Council of Europe is needed with a focus on its core tasks and on continuing to develop its capacity to deliver the expertise and advice that Member States so badly need. Important building blocks in the work are that the European Court of Human Rights can stand as a strong and independent interpreter of the European Convention on Human Rights and that the Council of Europe continues to develop its reform work in individual Member States with competent advice, for example through the Venice Commission for Democracy through law, and that the examining follow-up activities under various conventions are conducted purposefully and effectively. This is a accountability that is directed at all the Member States of the Council of Europe. In addition to the ECHR, the organisation has developed several other leading instruments over the years. These are, for example, anti-corruption measures that we were able to hear from Kerstin Lundgren in the past. Here, Sweden has taken a large part and has been a great help in combating corruption. These are measures against trafficking in human beings, against discrimination and against mistreatment of detainees and prisoners. It is the Istanbul Convention, which can help countries both prevent and combat men's violence against women through legislation and other measures. It is also the work on youth participation, supporting young human rights defenders and enabling people-to-people contacts between young people and youth organisations in Europe. The Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights is an important independent voice in the human rights debate. Where we have had our own Thomas Hammarberg, which is now part of the Swedish delegation as a Member of Parliament. I would also like to highlight the gender equality work done within the Council of Europe, where a new gender equality strategy has been adopted for 2018 – 2023. Another important part of the activity is the development aid programmes for democracy and the rule of law. They continue to play an urgent role in providing support and assistance to Member States and partner countries. This could include support for functioning democratic institutions as well as support for the defence of independent justice systems. Both the EU and Sweden are bilaterally major contributors to the activities. The programmes pay increased attention to strengthening women's enjoyment of human rights. Among other things, support is given to the accession of countries to the Istanbul Convention, to which Sweden has provided special support. I and three more members of Parliament were a while ago in Russia at a seminar organised by the Swedish Embassy. We discussed with Duma members and representatives of civil society and talked about how we work here in Sweden to combat men's violence against women and patriarchal structures. We in the Parliamentary Assembly have an important role to play. We are a forum for debates, monitoring and initiatives in relation to the founding mandate of the Council of Europe. During the period, closer cooperation between the Ministerial Committee and the Assembly has developed, but it needs to be further developed. Madam President, I would like During the period, the activities of the Council of Europe have continued to be influenced by the relationship with Russia. This concerns developments in the area of human rights in Russia, where we have seen measures and attacks on both journalists, human rights defenders and demonstrators. But this also applies, of course, to Russia's continued aggression against Ukraine and illegal annexation of Crimea. We can never accept that borders are changed by force and in violation of international law. Both the Russian aggression against Ukraine and the Russian action against Georgia have been repeatedly mentioned both in the Committee of Ministers and in the Parliamentary Assembly. The principled criticism has been clearly and clearly formulated by a very large majority of the Member States of the Council of Europe. Developments in other individual Member States have also continued to play a prominent role in the work, such as Turkey and Azerbaijan, but also others. The work on monitoring mechanisms in the various committees of the Council of Europe is central. In the shadow of the covid-19 pandemic, the government-supporting parties in Hungary and Poland, for example, are intensifying their attacks on human rights, often women's rights. The two right-wing nationalist governments have long attacked fundamental principles and values and are now making further advances, something that can never be accepted. We see countries that are further trying to limit women's rights to their own bodies. Poland already has one of Europe's most stringent abortion laws and now wants to make it even stricter. In Turkey, the government is making another attempt to allow men who rape children to avoid punishment if they marry the victim. When it comes to Poland and Turkey, I would also like to mention some of our fellow Members. Azadeh Rojhan Gustafsson is rapporteur responsible for reviewing the functioning of Poland's democratic institutions. Thomas Hammarberg is one of the rapporteurs when it comes to the review of Turkey. We are indeed in a strange time, Madam President, when measures are being taken in the fight against the abominable pandemic. However, it is important to stress that even measures restricting freedom must always be relevant, proportionate and time-limited and implemented in a transparent manner. We hope that this will be evaluated by the Council of Europe. Fundamental values and principles must always be protected, even in times of crisis. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the Council of Europe as an organisation that can offer guidance in maintaining respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law, including in dealing with the pandemic.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-497	Madam President, I would like Carina Ohlsson says that we can never accept Russia's action. But we can change the rules to welcome them back and tailor to make it possible. Russia does not want to participate if anyone can take decisions that they cannot veto. They want a veto, and you gave it to them. This makes no sense to me. There must be sharp criticism of this from this House. I also wonder whether, last year, Carina Ohlsson, who was one of the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the delegation, when discussions were held on how to deal with this issue, the Foreign Affairs Committee's statement on how to behave was perceived as clear. Then, of course, I wonder: What has been achieved? I have read that one of the members of the Socialist Group has voted in favour and in favour of opening the door because it would provide opportunities for criticism. This was the idea before covid-19, of course – now a lot has been cancelled. But the question is, what happened? Take the last thing that happened, when Russia changed the Constitution and reset the clock for Putin's presidential periods. He has not been president at all when the elections take place in 2024. It was 200 000 from civil society who signed up to get the question tested in the Venice Commission, but what happened? The rapporteurs did not care; it was not a question. The Council of Europe was silent, and this is, of course, a signal that others are following, whether it is Hungary, Poland, Turkey, Azerbaijan or anyone else. They're following in the tracks.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-501	Madam President, I would like As Kerstin Lundgren said, I have been on the Foreign Affairs Committee, and we have also had discussions in the Council of Europe, both within and between party groups. It's very hard to be sure how to do it. We carry the mandate with us, so it is not the case that the Committee on Foreign Affairs should tell the delegation what to do. Of course we meet in party groups there. I have great respect for what Kerstin Lundgren has said, because she has also been in the Council of Europe for many years. I respect her views and views and find it extremely difficult to take into account the various aspects of this issue. As I have said before, we do not see the improvements desired, of course, with regard to developments in the area of human rights in Russia. The aggression against Ukraine and the illegal annexation of Crimea remain, as does the conflict between Russia and Georgia. From Swedish and all other places where we stand up for human rights and the rule of law, we shall continue to be critical and discuss how this issue should be dealt with if we do not see any success or change. So I take to heart what Kerstin Lundgren is in front of. We must continue to be strongly critical on the part of the Council of Europe when it comes to Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea. We are also conducting discussions and dialogue with other organisations in Russia, including human rights organisations, and some of them have stated that it would be good if Russia were also in the Council of Europe.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-506	Madam President, I would like Some representatives of the organisations I have followed during the journey have been branded as foreign agents and imprisoned. Leading human rights fighters and representatives of the Civil Rights Defenders and of the LGBT community are imprisoned or in the field because if you are still alive, you are threatened with life. This is the reality. So what happened? I hope that Carina Ohlsson has studied Russia's application to the UN Human Rights Council. It is an interesting text, which shows how Russia views human rights. They are working stubbornly to undermine what the Council of Europe has built up for 70 years. There you have to be clear and not let in. It is particularly important to be clear also in the internal party discussion. Russian delegates, of course, come in. I am convinced that you in the Socialist Group have Members. I'm sure they're in several groups, because that's how they act. It is extremely important to be clear and not to protect. What they did was they said: No, now you have been stupid, but you are welcome back. That signal, speaking in two languages, doesn't work when it comes to children. What you do shows what you mean. You opened the door so Russia could come back. You lifted the sanctions, and you changed the rules – just what Russia is acting to do in other organisations in terms of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. That was bad!
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-510	Madam President, I would like What Kerstin Lundgren mentions about human rights organisations that are designated as foreign agents, I know very well because I have worked for a long time in close cooperation that has concerned the area of men's violence against women. I have met people who have found it difficult to work with something that we think is obvious, namely support for women who are victims of violence, because they are seen as foreign agents in contact with other countries. In Russia we had a seminar on this at the Swedish Embassy. There was no other embassy that wanted to take part in that seminar, as some say. Membership of the Council of Europe can and must never be used to legitimise human rights violations. Therefore, our voice must always be strong when there is abuse, both when it comes to the principles of the rule of law and when one does not stand up and take the fight for human rights. I know that the Swedish voice will never stop, even though me and Kerstin Lundgren have different opinions on whether we made mistakes in the Council of Europe last year. I can at least conclude by saying that it is extremely important that we have this strong voice from the Swedish side. I hope that we can unite in this and run it also in our party groups as parliamentarians. I can promise Kerstin Lundgren that my vote will not be silenced, nor in our group in the Council of Europe. At least I can stand up for that here.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-515	Madam President, I would like The Council of Europe was founded in 1949 to safeguard human rights in Europe, which at the time was in ruins, economically and socially destroyed by the Second World War. Winston Churchill, whose speech in Zürich three years earlier is considered to be the start of the formation of the Council of Europe, expressed that it was time for Europeans to turn their backs on the horrors of the past and look to the future. He was convinced that Europe could be recreated as a large family in which justice, mercy and freedom prevailed. In this way, hundreds of millions of people would regain hope and joy, which makes life worth living. Last year, the Council of Europe celebrated its 70th anniversary, an excellent opportunity for a reconciliation of Churchill's visions. Did the Council of Europe become an association of democracies looking forward and where the citizens feel joy and hope? The answer is both yes and no. Over the past 70 years, the Council of Europe has built up many important institutions in defence of human rights, democracy and the rule of law – the European Court of Human Rights, the Venice Commission, the Commissioner for Human Rights, the monitoring mechanism and more. All these institutions are based on the credibility of the Council of Europe and on confidence that the decisions taken there are morally correct. Without its trust capital, the Council of Europe is nothing. Unfortunately, since the organisation is unable to directly influence a state's actions through economic and political sanctions, it is easy to ignore, ignore and even deliberately defy decisions taken by the Council of Europe, as many Member States unfortunately do. Russia, Azerbaijan, Turkey, Hungary and Poland appear year after year in our debates as negative examples of the fragility of democracy and as a reminder that democracy must be defended every day. Madam President, I would like The new regime, which deprives the Parliamentary Assembly of the right to impose sanctions, such as the suspension of the voting rights of countries which annex their neighbours and which in other ways violate human rights, is deeply regrettable. There are many countries that want to bask in the glory of being members of the moral authority of Europe, as the Council of Europe is usually described, but which systematically violate human rights, violate the principles of the rule of law and strangle democracy. Now the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is powerless towards these countries. Madam President, I would like Allowing the unconditional restoration of the rights of the Russian delegation can only be described as a major scandal. It's like you've completely forgotten what's going on on the Crimea Peninsula and in Donbass. Since 2014, more than 14 000 people have lost their lives, and several million have been displaced from their homes. For a long time Russia tried to give the impression that it was excluded from work, even though they themselves chose not to appoint a delegation or paid their fee to the Council of Europe. It was perfectly possible for Russia to participate in the work without being in the votes if it wanted a dialogue. Dialogue involves the exchange of thoughts between equals. And precisely the importance of dialogue was the motive that those who voted for Russia's unconditional return gave for their actions – naive, very naive. Madam President, I would like Dear colleagues! What is the first thing you think about when Russia comes up? Is it dialogue, consensus or harmony? No, it's fear. The Soviet Union was built on fear. Maintaining a constant fear among their own population was the strategy of the Soviet dictatorship to retain power. That is why it is so sad that the present regime is so reminiscent of the darkest days of the Soviet Union. The Kremlin wants people to feel fear. This applies to the people of Ukraine, Georgia and the Baltic countries, but most of all the people themselves, the people of Russia, must feel fear. Those of us who have experienced the horrors of Communism remember how hard the regime punished those who dared to oppose. Those considered displeasing to the regime were sentenced to detention, labor camps and long prison sentences. People were murdered for their opinions, then just like now. Regim critics like Boris Nemtsov and Sergej Magnitsky have paid with their lives, and their murderers are still free. Like the Communist leaders, Putin wants to secure eternal possession of power and loathe free elections. In the local elections in Moscow last autumn, the opposition candidates were not allowed to participate, and the protests led to brutal police intervention. Recently, the Duma voted for constitutional changes enabling Putin to continue as President until 2036. The Russian Constitutional Court quickly approved the amendments, including the wording that the Russian Constitution is above international agreements. It can be said, then, that those who voted in favour of the restoration of Russia's right to vote were given the right to vote immediately. Allowing a country to occupy its neighbours, murder regime critics and daily violations of human rights to dictate conditions undermines the credibility of the Council of Europe. From a Swedish point of view, it was very worrying that the only Social Democrat present in the vote voted in favour of Russia's re-entry. The signal value of a member representing the Government Party supporting Russia weakens Sweden's credibility as a clear voice for democracy and human rights. Madam President, I would like It can be seen from the report by the Swedish delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe that we participate very actively in the sessions. As chairman of the Swedish delegation, I am proud that we are such a committed and active delegation. There is hardly any major debate without a Swedish representative, and when it comes to participation in the votes, we are in third place. I would also like to extend a great deal of thanks to Petra Sjöström and Anna-Sara-Sara Hultgård Chernich for their commitment and all the work they have done on the smooth operation of the delegation.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-532	Madam President, I would like Last year, 2019, was the year of the 70th anniversary of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Undeniably, it was an eventful year. We touched on and dealt with important issues such as migration and refugees, sharia laws, media freedom and public service, child abuse, organised crime, gender equality, the Istanbul Convention and much more. As a result of various recent events, we also had time to debate the situation in the Sea of Azov, the worsening situation of opponents in Turkey and other democratic problems. Madam President, I would like A year ago, I stood here and talked about how I was pleased that the Assembly had taken such a tough and principled stance against Russia's totally unacceptable actions in, among others, Crimea and Eastern Ukraine. At the time I thought that we had a united Foreign Affairs Committee here in the Swedish Parliament and a united Swedish delegation that supported this our principled and tough stance towards Russia. I said that the least we should expect was to meet the criteria for being part of this fine cooperation and that all the Member States must strive to be better and not worse. Of course, I have not forgotten the single biggest event of the previous year, something that I do not think we have talked enough about here in Sweden, and that is what I will spend most of my time talking about today. I am, of course, talking about the historic betrayal of the Social Democrats when, together with a majority of the Assembly, they let Russia back into the warmth of the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe was founded in 1949 with the aim of upholding human rights, democracy and the rule of law. It was seen early as an important tool to ensure these obvious values. The demand for democracy has also stood firm, which is why undemocratic countries have not been allowed into the Council of Europe. This is also the reason why Russia was not allowed in until 1995, after many years under the Soviet Union. It was then believed that developments in Russia were improving. For the last 20 years, however, we have seen how developments have gone in the wrong direction in Russia. In addition, we have seen the aggression against neighbouring countries. Ukraine is not the only one; it is also about Georgia, Moldova and so on. This is a development worth worrying about. In 2014, the invasion and occupation of Crimea was the last straw, and a large majority – 145 against 21 members – adopted sanctions against Russia. It was clear from the outset that these sanctions would certainly not be lifted unless Russia showed significant improvements. There has been no improvement at all. Seven resolutions against Russia adopted by the Assembly in recent years have been ignored by the Russian Government, which has become increasingly aggressive and repressive. The Russian delegation has refused to participate in the talks or meetings in which they had an opportunity to participate through their already existing seat in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Clearly, the opportunity to influence the congregation is all they have an interest in, not engaging in conversation. Why, then, did the Social Democrats suddenly choose to support Russia? Until the session in June 2019 they had been behind the previous position and with a fairly high tone was also agreed with the other Swedish parties. The only explanation given by S-representatives, also mentioned by Boriana Åberg, was based on the thesis that a non-sanctioned Russia would enable a dialogue for increased human rights. It is a dialogue of which we have not yet seen anything, at least not from the Russian side. This is a thesis that falls flat when one sees how Russia has acted so far and which has also been completely cut off among other Russian opposition politicians Garri Kasparov, who several of us have met and who are now operating in exile. It is a dialogue that so far has not produced any results in terms of Russia's behaviour towards its neighbours, towards the outside world or in the treatment of its own population. Madam President, I would like It was bad enough that the Social Democrats voted on the night of Tuesday 25 June last year in favour of Russia's re-entry. The reactions, not least from members of the countries affected by Russia's aggression, were not surprisingly very strong. However, it was only the first of two votes that touched on Russia's ability to act in the Assembly, so expectations for the next vote were high – as was the case with the undersigned. It was, of course, embarrassing that our former completely united delegation was suddenly not united anymore, but there were many of us who followed the situation. The next vote concerned any restrictions on the Russian delegation. There were many of us who hoped that the Social Democrats would at least think that Russia should be responsible for its transgressions – but not. Just one day after the first vote, all three present Social Democratic representatives chose to consolidate the absurd position by voting in favour of the report that has prevented Russia from taking the consequences of its actions. The position can be interpreted as a recognition of the country's actions in Ukraine, for example. In fact, it can also be seen that one Member State can more or less violate the basic foundations of the Council of Europe, even in the case of armed invasions of other countries, if one is powerful enough to weaken the economy of the Assembly. If a small country with an insignificant financial role in the congregation, would it have acted in a similar way? I don't know, but I don't think so. I'm not usually very conspiratory, but in this case, I don't think so. The position has weakened the foundations of the Council of Europe. The former fine rhetoric of Sweden's largest party directed against Russia's aggression and extensive violations of international law as well as human rights and freedoms meant nothing. I am convinced that Putin was very happy. Madam President, I would like There is much more I would like to lift up, but time is short– I realize that I have exceeded my registered speaking time. However, I would like to raise an issue that is of the utmost importance during coronatides. The Council of Europe has an extremely important role to play in ensuring the values we so often talk about. When country after country shuts down and takes crisis decisions, it is extremely important that we do not allow decisions to go out on democracy with associated rights. We are already seeing worrying developments in large parts of the world with a decline in democracy. We must therefore ensure that all the necessary emergency measures taken, which risk restricting people's self-evident rights, are temporary. Our work to protect democracy, the rule of law and human rights is more important than it has been for a long time. To conclude, I would like to thank the delegation, not least its President, Boriana Åberg, for her wonderful work during the year. Of course, I would also like to thank the international office, which has supported us in all our work. You're doing an amazing job!
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-550	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the activities of the Council of Europe. Momodou Malcolm Jallow, who is the representative of the Left Party in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, would actually have participated in the debate, but he is prevented because of covid-19. I will therefore give our speech. I sat in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe during the last parliamentary term, so I am not completely unfamiliar with the issue. Democratic development in the world and in Europe has been slowly but surely moving in the right direction for a long time. However, it is with concern that I can now see that democracy over the last decade is again beginning to move in the opposite direction in several countries – globally and on our continent. This is something that is particularly clear when you look at countries such as Hungary, Turkey, Russia and Poland. Hungary no longer counts as a democracy, according to Freedom House. Orbán has used the Corona crisis to govern by decree, and Parliament has in practice been abolished. In Russia there is a formal opposition, election and independent media, but in practice electoral laws and political rules have been adapted to secure Putin's power. Poland may not have reached that level, but it is well on its way in a similar direction. Democracy is in acute danger. One example is the attacks on the independence of the judiciary. Turkey has taken several steps away from the path of democracy by trying to systematically silence all opposition in that country. A clear example is the mass arrests of leading politicians from the left-wing party HDP. The result is that Turkey is now under the constant supervision of the Council of Europe itself. Madam President, I would like The Council of Europe is an important intergovernmental body bringing together virtually all European countries, and it is therefore an important platform for dialogue, cooperation and exchange. It is a platform that is particularly important when the core values of the Council of Europe are called into question. These are core values of human rights, the principles of the rule of law and democratic governance. The European Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights are key tools at work. Other important bodies linked to the Council of Europe are the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe and the Venice Commission. However, I intend to concentrate my speech on the work of the Parliamentary Assembly. Two issues that have been at the heart of the work of the Parliamentary Assembly during this period concern the election of the new Secretary-General of the Council of Europe and the question of Russia's participation. At the summer session, the Assembly elected Croatia's then Foreign Minister Marija Pejčinović Burić as the new Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe has always been cautious about sanctions against Member States, but with regard to Russia's annexation of Crimea and actions in Eastern Ukraine, the Council of Europe considered that there was reason to act, leading to the temporary suspension of Russia's right to vote in the Parliamentary Assembly from 2014. Russia replied by refusing to pay its membership fees and did not participate in the parliamentary work of the Council of Europe. In 2018, a process to arrive at a solution was launched and in 2020 an amendment to the Rules of Procedure was adopted, which led to the Russian delegation resuming its work in the Assembly and Russia its payment of the membership contribution. However, the Left Party maintained its previous position and voted against because the reason for the sanctions remained. We can never allow one Member State to annex a part of another Member State. Russia's actions are totally unacceptable. Madam President, I would like Another important issue debated extensively in the Council of Europe is the importance of free and independent media. Auditing journalism plays an important role in a strong and democratic society. We are also concerned about the systematic use of disinformation campaigns. It is not just a question of sorcery in social media, it is an integral and growing part of the activities of large and powerful institutions. Wrong information is being disseminated to manipulate, divide and influence democratic decisions. Independent media then represent a very important counter-force. The problem of threats and violence against journalists is still large in Europe. The murder of journalist Daphne Galizia Galicia in Malta is a terrible example of the vulnerability of journalists. It is therefore important that we do everything we can to strengthen the criminal protection of journalists in Europe. Threats against journalists are ongoing, including in Sweden, and must be taken seriously. The media play a crucial role in a democracy, and the work to secure their independence and independence is an important political issue. Madam President, I would like It is gratifying to note that the Swedish delegation continues to be one of the most active delegations in the Council of Europe – Sweden will be in third place after Switzerland and Norway. It is also gratifying that the members of the delegation have been elected for various important tasks, which we have heard about in the past. I am thinking in particular of Momodou Jallow's mission as rapporteur in the fight against racism and discrimination. It is a mission that is more important than ever, given that right-wing extremists and anti-democratic currents are growing stronger across the continent. I have already mentioned the negative developments in countries such as Hungary, Poland, Turkey and Russia, and, in addition to the threats to democracy I mentioned earlier, we are seeing the rights of women, minorities, immigrants and LGBT people being repressed. In Hungary, Parliament has recently voted against the Istanbul Convention on Women's Rights, and in Poland work is under way to restrict the right to abortion. The rights of LGBT people are being questioned in an increasing number of countries in Europe. We see that there is a growing anti-democratic and right-wing extremist movement around Europe, including in Sweden and the rest of the Nordic countries. It is racist organisations that, in their ideological convictions, are doing everything possible to create divisions and spread hatred and threats, especially against people with immigrant backgrounds. I believe that we, as Members of Parliament, have a particular responsibility to stand up to racism, right-wing extremism and intolerance, and hateful rhetoric and hateful expressions. Of course, we must always stand up to defend the core values of the Council of Europe in terms of human rights, the principles of the rule of law and democratic governance – in Sweden, in Europe and in the rest of the world.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-565	Madam President, I would like The Council of Europe was founded by 10 Western European states in London on 5 May 1949. The Council of Europe now has 47 Member States and is working to create a common European foundation of values based on human rights, democracy and the rule of law. The aim is to achieve close cooperation, establish good relations between the Member States and protect human rights. The Council of Europe works at three different political levels. There is a decision-making and executive body known as the Council of Ministers and made up of the foreign ministers of the Member States. There is an advisory and driving body, the Parliamentary Assembly. Finally, there is a body for cooperation at local and regional level – the Congress of Local and Regional Agencies of the Council of Europe, known as the Municipal Congress. In the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Members are appointed by the parliaments of the Member States, and they are to be parliamentarians. Madam President, I would like In recent years, Member States have drifted apart, and the core values of the Council of Europe are at stake. They are challenged by the lack of respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Several Member States lack respect for this value base and fail to honour their commitments. We are very concerned about developments in Russia, Turkey and Chechnya and some other countries where arbitrary arrests of journalists and political opponents are taking place. We see that a number of Member States do not meet many of their commitments in terms of migration and refugees, media freedom, freedom of the press, gender equality and more. Minorities are discriminated against and their minority rights are restricted. Madam President, I would like In recent years, the debate in the Council of Europe has increasingly focused on the lack of protection of the basic principles of democracy, the rule of law and human rights in several Member States. The fact that some Member States do not respect this foundation of values and do not share the fundamental values of the Council of Europe is very worrying. This also damages the credibility of the organisation as a representative and defender of human rights. Madam President, I would like All the countries of the Council of Europe have ratified the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Recommendations from the Council of Europe against Member States that breach their commitments are not enough. In order to better promote transparency, democracy and human rights, the Council should exclude Member States from participation and cooperation for a certain period of time, in order to indicate that their behaviour is not acceptable. Madam President, I would like It is not enough for a country to enter into a principled agreement on respect for human rights and the rule of law. The country must demonstrate in practical application that the legislation is being complied with and that it is living up to what membership actually means. It is important to uphold the values and principles on which the organisation rests – otherwise the credibility of the Council of Europe will eventually be weakened.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-571	Madam President, I would like As people, we actually have a responsibility for other people in the world – both here in Sweden and in other countries. As people who live in a democracy with a high degree of freedom and human rights, we have a responsibility for other people in the world. As a small country, Sweden depends on the world working peacefully and on conflicts between countries being handled in a civilised and rule-based way. For these reasons, it is inevitable that, both as Liberals – of course – and as citizens of Sweden – we must stand up for human rights, democracy and the principles of the rule of law. For this work at European level there is the Council of Europe. Madam President, I would like It is not a secret that the Council of Europe in working form may be needed more now than for a very long time. We are seeing around Europe how countries are going in the wrong direction with regard to these principles. We see it in Turkey, Hungary and Poland, to name a few, but we see it not least in Russia. Madam President, I would like The Council of Europe shall address the resolution of internal and external conflicts. Instead, Russia is engaged in creating internal and external conflicts. The Council of Europe is committed to spreading democracy and countering the repression of its own citizens as well as people throughout Europe and the world, Madam President, but Russia is doing the opposite. They increase the repression of their own people, dismantle the rule of law and democracy and use their power to pressure other countries to do the same. Russia is in fact the antithesis for the purpose of the Council of Europe. For this reason, we have a letter with the Moderates on this matter. It contains criticism of the fact that one of those who sits on behalf of Sweden in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, a social democrat, voted for Russia to join the gang again – to join the club and be on the same terms as those countries that actually want to spread democracy and human rights. Russia did not even participate fully in the work in the way it should, and they do not pay their membership fee. They do not respect the values of the Council of Europe, but they want to be there. They want to have it as a nice little feather in their hat and be able to say that they are in the work. That's embarrassing! That is the opposite of what the Council of Europe should be doing. It is not only the case that this in itself is a serious departure and that they themselves are the antithesis to the aim of the Council of Europe, but it is also the case that this leads to serious consequences for real. This means undermining the integrity of the Council and thus teaching other countries for the future that if the Council of Europe imposes sanctions, does something to exclude them or makes demands, they can ignore this and get back in if they only manage to play their political cards right or manage to push other countries and manage to threaten and bully their surrounding world. This action by the member of the Swedish delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly leads, in the long run, to the risk of the Council of Europe's aim being torn apart. Privacy is under threat. For this reason, we have presented our letter in order for the Council of Europe to stand up for human rights and democracy and not to let Russia in and receive them with open arms.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-577	Madam President, I would like It is a long-awaited change that is being proposed in the proposal and the subject we are about to debate now. It is about improvements for children in psychiatric care. It's about children and young people who feel very bad. They are a danger to themselves and others, so forced care has been decided. It is always heavy when people suffer from illness and various problems that make life not work. Extra heavy is when children are affected. They should avoid this and be able to grow up without pain, anxiety and anxiety. I would like every child to be free from sickness and ill health, but that is not the case. Obsessive care is a very large procedure. It should be done when nothing else is possible, and even when used it must be surrounded by rules that make it as good as possible for the child. In forced care, belt clamping and separation from other patients are sometimes used together with other treatments. All these coercive measures must be carefully regulated. The Convention on the Rights of the Child governs all children, including those who are being enforced. That is why the Government's proposal is gratifying. We welcome the proposal to restrict the use of certain coercive measures, to shorten the duration of coercive measures and to clarify the conditions for extension when further coercive measures are adopted. It is also positive that the government is proposing a new provision on special notification to the Inspection for Care of a patient under 18 years of age has been subject to repeated coercive measures during the care period. We Christian Democrats also believe that it is gratifying and a step in the right direction that the government is proposing a new provision that patients under the age of 18 should be entitled to daily activities in the health care establishment and to stay outdoors at least one hour each day unless medical reasons speak against it. The proposals in this proposal are certainly moving in the right direction, but we believe that more needs to be done to strengthen the rights of children taken into custody in forced care. This is in line with what several consultation bodies have expressed in their opinions. According to, for example, the Children's Ombudsman and Save the Children, tension with a belt should be completely prohibited, as the operation is deemed not to comply with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. We've come to the same conclusion. We Christian Democrats believe that belt clamping should in the long term be banned for children and young people under the age of 18. We Christian Democrats also believe that it is crucial that the personnel responsible for the supervision of children during an ongoing coercive action have the right skills to meet the patient's needs. If the skills are lacking, patient safety is compromised. We therefore believe that the Government's proposal in the proposal to replace the term, in the text of the law, for health professionals and health professionals, is not sufficient. It should be stated that it is a legitimate healthcare professional in order to ensure the best possible patient safety. It is, after all, a coercive measure, which is sensitive and which can be perceived as traumatic and, above all, as very offensive. We Christian Democrats support the Government's proposal, but we have additions that we hope will win the approval of the Parliament. I would particularly like to highlight reservation 1, which is that we need to remove tension by belting as a method in the long term. I have listened to several radio reports about young people who have been forced to be taken care of. One of them is particularly stuck with me. This is about Anna, who has been separated 120 times during compulsory care. The report says that she is the one who has been separated most times by everyone in Sweden. It is 120 times that she has been separated from others during ongoing forced care. This is, of course, a record that none of us want to hold, and it is a care that we wish would be different. Anna is not alone; there are many more children and young people who need more developed care and treatment when they feel unwell. We must strive to improve coercive measures, but also to do far earlier – before forced treatment. At the school you should be able to get in touch with the school nurse or curator within 24 hours, we think. The first line of action within regional and local authorities needs to be expanded. Care for those with chronic diseases or other severe illness needs to be improved. Support for relatives must also be improved. The Pandemine is making a lot of demands on us now. I see good examples in many municipalities and regions where efforts for good mental health are developing. Contacts with civil society are also improving. All the good things are happening, we must find ways to keep after the pandemic, for the good of our children. Finally, I would like to say, from us Christian Democrats, yes to the Government's proposal but also to add that in the long term we should not have tension with a seat belt for children and young people under the age of 18. The Convention on the Rights of the Child lays down requirements. It is a challenging law that can not only be adopted, but we must also change it so that we live up to the Convention. Today's debate and dossier are a good step in the right direction, but let us take more steps.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-591	Madam President, I would like Today we are having an important debate. This is a debate in which the dividing line between the need for coercion and the human right to volunteerness is to be judged on ethical aspects. The Government has proposed changes to the Law on Psychological Obsessive Care and the Law on Legal Psychiatric Care. It is both long-awaited and important that this review be carried out, as the coercive measures currently in use need to be evaluated and reconsidered. If we look at what the government actually wants to do, it is essentially a question of special regulation of coercive measures, such as belting, separation from other patients and restriction of the right to use electronic communications services. This particular proposal covers patients under 18 years of age. It is certainly a step in the right direction that is being taken when we are now working to bring about these changes. This means that the conditions for using these coercive measures can also be better regulated. But let me be clear: that is, unfortunately, far from enough. Forced measures in closed psychiatric care for children and young people must be done with significantly more humane methods. The psychiatric care system must offer safe and evidence-based care and be constantly updated with new effective treatment methods that can easily be implemented in the treatment business. This must be our aim to counter cemented and out-of-date psychiatric care. That is why we need to do more than the government proposes. Coercive measures should not only be abbreviated. Instead, they should be examined in detail from a patient safety perspective. Once this has happened, the discussion on treatment methods and coercive measures in psychiatric care and forensic psychiatric care may continue, but we are not there yet. Madam President, I would like Let's focus on the coercive belting. That is, to say the least, a very problematic measure. One might wonder how, under any circumstances, it can be a method used in children and young people who are cared for for severe psychiatric diagnoses. The coercive action itself can be very traumatic and have consequences such as post-traumatic stress syndrome. It is also a very offensive method that can give severe but for the rest of your life. We need to protect the child rights perspective. Tightening up children and young adults, who are often already suffering badly, is not justifiable, under any circumstances. There must be alternative methods that are much more human. If this is not the case, it is high time to re-focus to develop more appropriate treatment measures. The Swedish Democrats share the conclusion of many consultation bodies: Belting should not be used as a coercive measure in psychiatry, and a phase-out should start as soon as possible. That is why we propose this in our motion for a resolution in the follow-up motion that has been tabled on the subject that we are debating today. Our opinion is crystal clear. Belting should be phased out as a coercive measure in psychiatry. Although today's debate is about children and young people, we would like to emphasise that our position also applies to adult psychiatry. This is not an appropriate method in any context, regardless of age. It is also high time that children and young people were given the right to self-determination and that privacy was strengthened. Psychiatric care should work from a child's perspective when meeting children and young people. Participation and influence should be the obvious starting point throughout the care process. Nothing else is acceptable. Having said that, Madam President, I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of reservation No 1 by the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-601	Madam President, I would like Children and young people must be protected, especially those children and young people who feel ill mentally. We know today that many children and young people in Sweden report mental illness. Today, however, we are talking about the children and young people who are in forced care in child and youth psychiatry, and they are the children who are the worst. They are the ones we must protect through legislation. These children should also be able to feel confident that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is being applied, that they are being heard and respected. Madam President, I would like The Government's proposal involves improvements that the Left Party supports. Forced care needs to be based to a greater extent than is currently the case on less coercion and more participation. We can see that all forms of care may differ widely between different regions, and this also applies to psychiatric care. Clearer national rules and guidelines are needed. This applies, for example, as stated in the bill, also statistics, requirements for staff skills, evaluation and children's rights in healthcare. Madam President, I would like In the consultation session, the Health Care Association says that it is totally unacceptable to subject children and young people to routine coercive measures. Forced action should only be possible in very extreme cases. Madam President, I would like The deficiencies in psychiatric care in general were an important reason why we in the Left Party in autumn 2019 in our budget motion proposed increased investments in psychiatric care, secured personnel supply, specialist nurses and extra funding for healthcare also in regions with sparsely populated areas. The Left Party believes that coercive measures may be necessary, as I said earlier, in a few extreme situations. But the goal must be zero in each region, and through method development, investment in training and competence development of the staff we can achieve that. Madam President, I would like With underfunded care and, in particular, inadequate investment in mental health professionals, this is not done in a quick turn. A zero vision should be introduced for coercive measures in psychiatric care. That is why I am in favour of Amendment No 2. Madam President, I would like Several consultation bodies have noted that IVO, the Inspection for Health and Welfare, has only regional statistics. Supervision and control are regionally based. According to figures from the National Board of Health and Welfare, 261 children were treated 0 – 17 years of age according to the Act on Mental Obsessive Care 2017. It's actually an increase from 2011, when there were 207 children. The fact that most of these children were not subjected to belting can be seen in the studies that have been carried out, but it was still 318 child seat belts 0 – 17 in 2017. Knowledge and overview must be available nationally – this is in order to be able to spread knowledge about the development of methods, highlight shortcomings within several regions and create a more equal healthcare system throughout Sweden. The impact of coercive measures should be assessed at national level. Knowledge building and dissemination must be systematic throughout the country. In an evaluation, universities and other research institutes should also be able to be involved in certain aspects. Science and proven experience must be at the centre of attention. The Left Party wants an appropriate authority to be given the task of evaluating any enforcement action taken. Madam President, I would like We have to listen to the children. A child who has experienced a coercive measure must be allowed to give his or her story and experience. Each child shall be entitled to talk with the medically responsible staff following a coercive action. If society doesn't listen, it's a betrayal. Save the children and listen to them! Their experiences should be respected.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-611	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal. I think that in these covid-19 days there is reason to start with a discussion and reflection on how the situation we are currently in will affect the entire population of our country, including children and young people. It is clear that when Mom and Dad are at risk of becoming unemployed, when schools are closed, the education system is closed and the future seems increasingly uncertain to our young people, there is reason to consider what psychological damage this pandemic will cause to the entire population and, not least, to young people. We have long had problems with mental illness among children and young people. There are frightening figures showing how mental health has deteriorated year after year, Madam President. There are also frightening figures showing that, unfortunately, it is not uncommon for young people and children to commit suicide as well. We need to step up work on mental illness. Madam President, I would like I have my own experiences from psychiatry. I worked in psychiatry 35 years ago, including in old Långbro hospitals. I have seen how psychiatry has developed since I worked as a mental nurse at Långbro Hospital. At that time it was lock-in, belting and forced care that prevailed completely. In the discussion we are having today, however, I think it is important to bear in mind that psychiatry has developed. Much of the old coercion has been left behind and works far more willingly than when I was a mental nurse. Even then, however, almost everyone working in psychiatry viewed the coercive measures as a failure. I never met a nurse, doctor or mentalist who said, "Oh, my God, we've got to put a man in a belt." I met people who were despairing over separations, belting and coercives in psychiatry. The staff did not want to use such methods, although it was sometimes, unfortunately, necessary to secure the sick person's life but also the environment's life. Madam President, I would like It can be said that much of the discussion that we have here today is due to recent shortcomings in psychiatry. I myself was violently disturbed when I learned about what happened in Stockholm's child and youth psychiatry, which used the separation and belting of children and young people in an almost routine way. It turned out that much of what was going on there was due to the existence of an unstable, untrained staff group. It is extremely important to ensure that those working in psychiatry feel safe, receive training and have reasonable opportunities to work with sensible methods. The proposal put forward today is a step forward. It will tighten up the monitoring requirements and restrict the routine use of coercive methods. It also includes requirements for methodological development. Nobody wants you to use coercion for nothing. However, I argue – I am perhaps an old mentalist at the bottom – that there are certain unique occasions where, unfortunately, coercion is necessary, not least to secure the patient's – the patient's – chances of survival. In these words, Madam President, I am in favour of the committee's proposal, which I think is a step forward. Psychiatry needs to be developed significantly in the future. I see this proposal as a first step, but there is a great deal more to be done in the future.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-619	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Government proposal Improvements for children in psychiatric care. And the headline doesn't lie. The bill contains important and really urgent improvements for the children who are cared for and staying in psychiatric care. The committee committees that have spoken before me have, in many respects, already explained the content of the proposal, but let me sum up briefly. Among other things, the proposal introduces a separate regulation of the use of certain coercive measures for patients under 18 years of age. The proposal tightens the regulatory framework for when, how and how far-reaching coercive measures may be used. And the conditions for good supervision are strengthened. IVO shall be made aware by means of a special notification of when a patient under 18 is subject to some or all of the coercive measures in the form of clamping, separating or limiting the use of different electronic means of communication on three or more occasions during the care period. I believe and hope, Madam President, that the new provision will be important. The requirement to inform IVO gives the authority the opportunity to quickly investigate whether there are deficiencies in the care that explain why an individual patient has repeatedly been subjected to the serious coercive measures that we are now discussing. And if shortcomings are identified, there are opportunities to address them so that the need for new coercive measures can hopefully be prevented. Madam President, I would like I would like to stress that the word is being prevented. In this debate and in Parliament as a whole, we are of course in full agreement that the focus must be on precisely preventing the need for coercive measures. It is quite obvious to me and the Moderates that the overall objective should be that the children who are cared for and staying in psychiatric care should not have to have their rights and freedoms as severely restricted as they actually become when the methods we are talking about now need to be used. On the part of the Moderates, we support the proposals put forward by the government in the bill. But we lack in the bill the government's assessments of how the need for coercive measures can be prevented and avoided. The fact that the use of coercive measures is now more clearly restricted by law is good, but at least as important, as I said, is the actual work in the healthcare sector to prevent the need for coercive measures from even arising. And the state should support the regions in this important work. In this context, I would like to highlight the need for preventive work on two fronts. Firstly, there is a need for work aimed at preventing the need for compulsory psychiatric care of children at all. This work is particularly concerned with early detection of children who are mentally ill in order to be able to respond quickly to care and treatment, because we know that, with rapid and adequate intervention, it is often possible to prevent more serious mental illness. Secondly, prevention is about preventing situations and needs arising that require clamping, separating or restricting the right to use, for example, a computer or mobile phone. One of the proposals in the bill can hopefully contribute to this, namely the proposal that children in psychiatric care should be entitled to activities and outdoor stay. How important and good this is is there is very good evidence for. What I hope for in the future is that the government really takes on board the views that many consultation bodies as well as parties and representatives in this House have highlighted on the need for preventive measures and methodological development in health care. Of course, in the best of worlds, care should not have to use, for example, clamping. Successful work to develop care and reduce the need for coercive measures needs to be carried out from a clear patient perspective. This is the absolute conviction of me and the Moderates. To be honest, Madam President, there is a good lesson to be done here. National collaboration for mental health, NSPH, which is a partner organisation for patient, patient and family organisations in the psychiatric field, stated in a letter on the proposal that if you are to succeed in systematic quality work you need to emphasise the patient perspective, see the power imbalance between the patient and staff and develop methods based on the experience and knowledge of patients, patients and relatives. NSPH writes:中 Experience shows that it is difficult to reduce the incidence of coercion without investing in inclusion, participation and participation. 中 Parliament, government and, not least, our 21 regions do well to listen to and take on these important points of view.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-630	Madam President, I would like We are now in the midst of a time where almost all the focus revolves around the handling of the covid-19 pandemic. But even though we are currently occupied with the pandemic, the life and everyday life of many is going on exactly the same way as before. For some patient groups treated in healthcare, everyday life is largely the same today as before the pandemic became a reality. In compulsory care, in particular, everyday life continues exactly as usual because treatment times there are often very long. Before my speech today, I have read a great deal of the reports by the Ombudsman for Children on the subject. Several of the reports are based on interviews with children and young people who have experience in forced care and coercive measures. Some children claim to understand that coercive measures are being used but question the scope and manner of coercive measures. Other children describe coercive measures that are not allowed. These are stories that really touch and grab hold, and it becomes clear that this is an area where we need to do more and better. Forced care is a major interference in personal integrity, and it is therefore laid down in international conventions how human rights are to be protected when it is necessary to care for people against their will. This protection requires clear legislation, transparency, documentation and supervision. I am therefore pleased that today we can present a proposal for a decision which is a first step, which clarifies and tightens up the law and which separates the law to apply to patients under 18 years of age. Madam President, I would like For many years, forced care has been discussed, and as the previous speaker said, it is because we have seen major shortcomings. It is clear that we need to take a holistic approach to the whole of compulsory care. This applies to legislation, as we are doing here and now. Today, we are making three important changes, one of which is to tighten the conditions for the use of coercive measures and to shorten their duration. We also introduce a provision requiring healthcare providers to report to IVO if a patient has been repeatedly subjected to coercive measures during the care period. It also introduces a provision that you are entitled to one hour's activities and outdoor stay every day. These are good improvements and a good start. But we must also work in a more long-term way to raise the level of knowledge in the field. It's not enough just to change the law. We need to increase the knowledge of the total. The Center Party has been a driving force for a long time in terms of increased knowledge. We need to strengthen national efforts to develop and disseminate relevant and up-to-date knowledge. The focus also needs to be on developing knowledge support, methods and working methods for healthcare professionals working with children in the psychiatric full-day care, including psychiatric care. We see that there are gaps here. Therefore, I look forward to following the mandate given to the National Board of Health and Welfare, which aims to contribute to increased quality development, a strengthened perspective on children's rights and greater legal certainty within child and adolescent psychiatric care. If we can work in a structured way to increase knowledge and develop methods and ways of working, I also believe that it can help reduce the use of coercive measures, which is the obvious goal. I support the committee's proposal.
i-bdb929557dbeaaae-638	Madam President, I would like What happens if we get sick and do not want any care? Most often the answer is that we will not have to – my body, my choice, my life. It is fundamental in healthcare that care should be based on our own desire to receive care and to receive help. But there are exceptions. It is very important that we improve the law on psychiatric care. Obsessiveness requires extremely careful balance. It's about caring for and helping someone who doesn't want care and help. At the same time, this care may be absolutely necessary to help a severely ill person with a psychosis, depression with suicide risk and strong compulsive behaviour. The purpose is for the sick person to become so much healthier that he himself should want the care. I am pleased that we are now tightening up this legislation, especially for the very youngest. They're the ones who'll get better care. I am absolutely convinced of that. I therefore call for approval of the Government's and the Social Affairs Committee's proposals in this area. I am pleased that children are now given the right to be outdoors and have activities every day even when they are cared for for for severe diseases. I am pleased that electronic communications can be withdrawn up to a maximum of one week and that such a decision can be appealed. You're not supposed to be without justice because you get very sick. A child should be separated from the other children in the ward only for a maximum of two hours at a time and only if the child is so aggressive that it becomes difficult and almost hopeless to care for the other children and when nothing else helps. I am also very pleased that we agree on that. If the intervention is needed for a longer period of time, IVO, the Inspection for Care and Care, should immediately know this. No child should fall between the meshes. As far as the most difficult thing is concerned, I would like to say that if a patient under the age of 18 is in immediate danger and it is obvious that there is no other way, the chief physician should still be able to decide that the patient is strapped, but now for a maximum of one hour. Of course, tension violates the child's integrity, and tension in itself can, of course, harm a person and create very severe traumas. It is a very difficult balance to see if you help or make life even harder. That is why I am also pleased that we are clear about the need to work preventively and to try to avoid tension and coercive measures as far as possible, that health professionals should be there for the entire hour that clamping may be absolutely necessary and that if there is only a few seconds over this hour's time, the health inspection and care inspection should immediately know this. Madam President, I would like In extreme exceptional cases, coercion may be needed in an area that is entirely voluntary, that we want help and support from the common. When nothing else is enough, there needs to be an opportunity. But care should be safe, and this is especially true of care for children. Madam President, I would like With the new legislation on which we agree together, I think the world will be a little better in six weeks' time.
