i-fa4218358311b0aa-4	Madam President, I would like Car support is an important social security benefit, which should exist because disabled people have the right to participate in society in the same way as the rest of us. It should facilitate those who, due to a permanent disability, have significant difficulties in moving on their own or who have difficulties in using public transport – for example, they should be able to get to work by means of an adapted vehicle. In 2017, the ambition was to create a new and modern support for motorists with reduced mobility. The reality, however, was different. On the contrary, there was an increase in costs and even longer processing times at Försäkringskassan for those who needed support to buy an adapted car. The new rules for which cars are considered suitable meant that people were referred to larger, higher and more expensive cars than before. In addition to a clear economic deterioration, the environment is adversely affected. As car support became both more expensive and more complicated since the entry into force of the legislation, the number of persons granted the adjustment has decreased. Payments for adjustment allowances have also fallen considerably. In fact, Madam President, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency spent only SEK 143 million of the SEK 263 million allocated by Parliament to car support last year. So now the government wants to ease the regulatory framework somewhat, and we think that is a good thing. We welcome the proposal to increase the level of supplementary premium A and B, as well as the proposal that it should be possible to obtain an adjustment allowance to lower the floor of a car below the external height of 2,050 millimetres. So there has been an increase that complicates the situation for those who need adapted cars. However, we believe that it needs to be clarified when there may be specific reasons for granting exemptions from the height limit. Madam President, I would like In these times, it may seem that you should not go into petitess. We Swedish democrats are not looking to look for faults or prevent good proposals. However, we want the bill to be as good as possible, and then there are a few things that we want to like about. We believe that the concept of special reasons must be defined in the Government's proposal for an adaptation grant for standard equipment or normally existing equipment. The concept of supplementary equipment should be replaced by optional equipment, since it is the term used in the automotive sector. We want the car support also to be available for specially adapted child seats, so that children with disabilities can travel safely. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of reservation 2, Madam President. Today, the adjustment premium can only be granted for fixed equipment. Of course, this becomes problematic because child car seats cannot be fixed, since the law requires renewal and adaptation of child car seats according to the age and size of the child. Madam President, I would like We think that the proposal is, for the most part, a good one. According to previous estimates by the Ministry of Social Affairs, the new rules may mean that an additional 300 cars per year can be adjusted, and we are in favour of this.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-15	Madam President, I would like My sense of freedom was strong when the driving was done and when my driver's license was in my hand. However, for many people with disabilities a driving licence is not enough to achieve the same feeling. It is also necessary to adapt the car, and this is where the state car subsidy comes in. The car subsidy was reformed in 2017 to make it easier for low-income people to obtain an adapted car, but the reform suffered severe criticism. The 2018 evaluation of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency showed that the processing times had been extended and that applicants were more often referred to buying large and more expensive vehicles than before. For the individual car buyer, it has in many cases, contrary to the intention, meant that it has become more expensive to get an adapted car. We Christian Democrats therefore proposed in a party motion already in 2018 that the government should act as quickly as possible and return to Parliament with suggestions on how car support could work better. I am pleased to say that our proposal received a majority in the Committee on Social Affairs. Unfortunately, however, Mr S. MP, Mr C. and Mr L. and, at the vote in this House, the announcement fell by the slightest margin. About a year later, the government finally acted. Although we Christian Democrats think it has taken too long, of course we welcome the current proposal, which will, on several points, lead to improved opportunities for car support. However, car support still lacks in the case of specially adapted child car seats. I would therefore like, Madam President, to endorse the Christian Democrats' reservation No 2. I would like to give an insight into how life can be for a family with a child with extensive disabilities, precisely to describe why this reservation is important. The parents of the family whose life I will describe have read through and approved my speech that I am giving here today. For the sake of the girl's integrity, I've changed her name. We can call her Ida. Madam President, I would like Ida was born with a rare genetic mutation that results in extensive functional impairment. Her brain is small and underdeveloped. Nerve cells are few, and they have difficulty communicating with each other. Ida also has epilepsy, CP and scoliosis, and her hip balls are not fully developed. She will not be able to learn to speak or to move. Although the eyes have normal function, the brain cannot interpret the visual impressions. It must be evident to every person who meets Ida that he has a great need for help and support 24 hours a day and that it will be so throughout his life. Madam President, I would like When Ida was born almost five years ago, her parents read on Försäkringskassan's website about all the support that existed for people with disabilities and their families. These included rights based on LSS, care allowance and car support. They felt confident that everything would be all right — welfare would provide them with the support they need, and Ida would be able to live a good life. But soon the fight against the authorities began. The fine texts on Försäkringskassan's website turned out to be empty words. Ida has never received state assistance compensation, not for one hour only. After years of applications and appeals she finally received municipal assistance but then only 20 hours a week, barely three hours a day. Madam President, I would like Ida's father describes it as falling into a black hole when he realized that the safety net is breaking in this way. He says that it feels like their family is excluded from society and from welfare. Parents are afraid and anxious about the future. Since the girl's mother quit her job to take care of Ida, they live on only one income. What happens if the father in the family gets sick and maybe loses his job? The bank doesn't give a loan to an apartment or a house. They only have one income. Will they forever be stuck in an expensive rental apartment, or will they ever be able to fulfill Svensson's dream of buying their own house? Economic stress puts a great strain on the family on top of the constant concern for Ida's health and life. And what about the custom car seat? Well, it's necessary for Ida to travel safely, just like any other child. It is certified by doctors, and it costs about $5,000. Madam President, I would like Earlier it was possible to get car support for this extra cost, which is directly linked to the child's disability. However, in a recent judgment, the Supreme Administrative Court states that, according to law, adjustment allowances can only be granted to fixed-mounted devices on the vehicle. Thus, since car seats for natural reasons are not welded in the car, case law has been shifted so far that car seats are no longer covered by the car support. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency therefore rejected the family's application, but at the same time the authority recommended the family to apply for another grant instead – additional cost compensation. The family did that. The problem was that the same authority that recommended that they apply for additional reimbursement rejected the application with the following reasons: The Social Insurance Agency does not accept the cost of a child car seat. It emerges from medical evidence that Ida has difficulty in sitting in an ordinary car seat, but it is not proven that Ida needs the very car seat that you are demanding. Madam President, I would like The decision is unreasonable. A doctor certifies that a specially adapted child car seat is necessary, and it costs about 30 000 SEK, regardless of the model you choose. An appeal is about to be lodged, but the process will take up to one year. The betrayal of prosperity, which the father describes as a black hole, is getting deeper and deeper. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats believe that the eternal struggle that these families are forced to endure must be brought to an end. One step is to change the law for car support so that also specially adapted child seats that are not fixed are covered. In fact, it is reasonable to be able to change the car seat as the child grows. Equally reasonable is it that the family who lives with constant concern, not only for their child's life and health, but also for how the family's finances are to be reconciled, receive help with an additional cost that is necessary for their children to travel safely. Sweden must also work for people with disabilities and for their families.
i-GPxRcPDW1hN8kuySiTKian	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support reservation 2 in paragraph 3. Madam President, I would like Liberals have closely followed the development of, or rather the perfect race that has taken place, in car support and the adjustment allowance since we implemented the latest change as late as 2017. Changes were made, including under pressure from us in the Liberals, in full agreement in this House. They were meant to improve and simplify for everyone with a need. Tragically, however, it has proved to be unworkable at all. The cases are stuck between the authorities and in the decision-making processes that we politicians did not imagine when we made the decision. In the budget negotiations ahead of 2020, the Liberals were given the opportunity to correct aid in financial terms, allowing people with extensive disabilities to once again receive support to buy a safe and efficient car. Today, we are debating the proposal for a decision that we are going to take on Thursday with the regulatory changes resulting from the budget decision. Madam President, I would like For many people with disabilities, the car is a symbol of freedom, of the possibility of self-movement – perhaps more than people who have no experience of functional variation at all. An adapted and appropriate car helps to break isolation, take jobs, visit people, engage in sports and move around in society. The car is often the prerequisite for taking that job that is a little further away and that requires a little more of the skills that you own, or to carry out your sport at a higher level, which requires travel, and thus achieve greater freedom. Madam President, I would like For all families with children with disabilities, it is difficult to describe, just as the previous speaker said, how important the car is for a family in order to live a life like everyone else. In many cases, inaccessible public transport means that car support is very important for many people with functional variations. The fact that we are now changing the regulatory framework again, and not least the adjustment contribution, Madam President, which was introduced as late as 2017, will benefit everyone. Above all, however, it will benefit people with limited economic conditions. We get away from the effect that people with disabilities are forced to buy expensive, fuel-consuming and far too large cars. It will again be possible to make adjustments to cars that the vast majority of the population actually buy and own. People with disabilities should not have to choose a minivan to get the car support. Today's contribution encourages the purchase of expensive, petrol-sucking cars that are not adapted to either size or everyday performance for an ordinary person or family. That is what we are changing today. Madam President, I would like There is no support for the purchase of adapted child car seats in the current rules, and this will not be the case in today's proposal either. It's crazy and dangerous in itself. A custom child seat can cost 40,000 – 50,000 kronor. It is a cost that many families with children with disabilities – yes, any family with children – find it difficult to afford. The adjustment premium under the current provisions, and those which will apply in today's proposal, can only be granted to fixed-mounted devices. There's a court order on it. There is no change in today's proposal on this point – it is an observatory. We Liberals believe that it goes without saying that support should also be provided for specially adapted child seats so that children with disabilities can travel safely. The government must therefore return with a supplementary proposal as soon as possible. Madam President, I would like We took the signals that the car support had broken completely seriously. The way the aid was designed meant more expensive cars, longer processing times and fewer who could use the aid. It wasn't meant to be. In the budget negotiations, the Liberals were given the floor to change rapidly the rules on how aid can be used and to allocate money to the budget properly so that the needs can be met. Today's reform also means that existing companies, often small and highly specialised, that can make road safety and cost-effective adjustments, those that do the job, can now be preserved. In some cases, unfortunately, they need to be restarted because some have had time to close down. It also means that more environmentally friendly and user-friendly cars can once again be considered for purchase. Today, we are pleased and proud of the proposal that is on the table, but the proposal urgently needs to be supplemented with full protection for children in the car as well.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-44	Madam President, I would like In fact, Mikael Dahlqvist would have been standing here in the speaker's chair right now. He is the Social Democrat in the Social Affairs Committee who has mastered these issues. I have to say that this is partly unknown terrain to me. However, with a view to reducing the risk of transmission, Mikael has remained in the forests of Värmland, and I believe that he is quite right in this case, although I will not be able to shoulder his cape. He has more knowledge in this field than I do. However, I have consulted Mikael Dahlqvist on the speech that I intend to make now, Madam President. Today, we are debating a report with legislative amendments which improve the possibilities for car support and which is proposed to enter into force on 1 October 2020. The car subsidy is a benefit aimed at promoting the participation in society of people with disabilities who have difficulties in moving or using public transport. This is an important reform in order for these people to be able to get to work, study and other activities. The Parliament adopted a new law on car support, which entered into force on 1 January 2017. I will be completely honest and say that the legislative changes in this area that were then passed in Parliament were not at all as we intended. The ambitions were good. The law would provide more strong support for economically weak groups and would provide a general increase in support for the acquisition of cars and assistive devices. It would also increase the possibility of acquiring a vehicle with original equipment in order to reduce the need for costly retrofits – a win-win situation for all. Unfortunately, the legislative changes that took place at the time have been lined with bureaucratic hassle on the part of the Social Insurance Agency, which has had a different interpretation from what we decision-makers had. In many cases, it has caused a pure misery for many insured persons. Costs have increased for the individual by making unreasonable demands on the size of the vehicle and so on. Recent statistics also show that far fewer people are looking for car support. That is why today's government proposal is extremely welcome. It will provide better opportunities to tailor vehicles and assistive devices. Acquiring an adapted vehicle is a huge cost to the individual. That is why the increase in subsidies is particularly important. Madam President, I would like What does this report contain? This means that the additional aid A and B will be increased. The government considers that anyone who, as a result of the disability of his or her own child, needs some adaptation of a car more often today than before could be helped. There are also higher demands on the condition and age of the car. Then it is justified to increase the level of compensation for car support.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-51	Another problem has been the need for the height of the car, which has caused the cars to be too large to be fit for purpose. It is now being addressed by introducing an altitude limit. Vehicles shall be capable of being adapted to the traffic environment. Another problem that is corrected is that the adjustment allowance should also be provided for devices that are considered to be standard equipment in the car or for normal additional equipment for the car. The amendment is based on the fact that it has been very difficult to find suitable cars with equipment suitable for the applicant's needs. The adjustment allowance for older vehicles should also be possible by removing the requirement if you already own the vehicle. This will allow adjustments to be made to own vehicles older than four years or more than 6 000 km. This will save money for both the individual and society. Madam President, I would like We will follow this issue closely and see how the new law develops in relation to our ambitions. As I have said before, it is an important reform to increase people's freedom and participation in society. Our political ambition is clear: We Social Democrats want a strong and secure society, each of which will receive help and support based on its needs. I am pleased that my government and the cooperation parties have listened and taken strong steps to get better functioning car support in the future.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-56	Madam President, I would like This House debated car support just over a year ago when last year's motion report on support for people with disabilities was discussed. At that time, a majority in the Social Affairs Committee had supported a proposal for a notice to the government to prepare urgently the follow-up of the reformed car subsidy and then to come back with proposals on how to make car support more effective. However, the Moderates and other parties behind the proposal for the announcement lost the vote in plenary with only one vote, as Pia Steensland presented. Why the government parties, supported by the Center Party and the Left Party, were opposed to a review of the criticisms made against car support in order to improve the same, I find it difficult to understand. In any case, the government returned a year and three months later to Parliament with a proposal for changes. That, of course, was welcome. Before we go into the changes that the government is now proposing and that we Moderates are behind, I want to give a little look back on what happened before spring 2019. In 2017, as several debaters have discussed, new rules on car support came into force in order to improve the conditions for low-income people to purchase a car but also in order to reduce the government's costs of retrofitting cars, by directing more car buyers towards buying larger cars and with more factory-mounted adaptations. Since the legislative change took place in 2017, the criticism of the new system has been proper – massive. Car buyers have warned that the new rules have meant that car purchases have become more expensive. People who have previously received subsidies to, for example, sink a car have been referred to larger vehicles that have been unwieldy and expensive to use, expensive to insure, expensive to treasure and expensive to operate. The new framework also increased the processing times at Försäkringskassan. Overall, the change led to a sharp reduction in car support payments compared with the previous one. Madam President, I would like The need for a revision of the new regulatory framework was therefore quite clear to us Moderates. It is good that the government has now also recognised this and made proposals for improvements. Firstly, the level of the car subsidy is increased. The so-called supplementary premium A is raised from SEK 30 000 to SEK 50 000. What is called a supplementary grant B is raised from SEK 40 000 to SEK 60 000. Secondly, the possibility of an adjustment premium is extended. The requirement for special reasons for the adjustment allowance to be granted for a vehicle over four years old or having rolled more than 6 000 km shall apply only for the first time such a premium is granted. It should therefore be possible to receive grants for further adjustments if needs change and new needs arise. Madam President, I would like I would really like to emphasise and highlight the fact that car support is an extremely important benefit in promoting the participation of people with major disabilities in society. The car is often a prerequisite for being able to work and also get everyday life, parenting and leisure time to work. Therefore, the improvements in car support that are now being made are important and welcome. I support the committee's proposal.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-67	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the car support. For many it may sound like a small question, but for a very large number of people with extensive functional variations, this support is absolutely crucial to having an active and social life, because a car of its own is the only option for getting around at all. The state car subsidy means that people with functional variations can apply for money to cover the cost of adjustments to the car. For adults, it has been about getting equipment to drive their own car. This may involve lowering the floor of the car so that you can move from wheelchair to seat and a range of other solutions. On 1 January 2017, a new regulatory framework was introduced for the state car subsidy – a regulatory framework and a bill that the Center Party strongly opposed. I'm afraid we didn't hear about that. We did it because we saw that it would lead to a series of deteriorations. Since then we have been able to read many black headlines about how car support has been dismantled and how life has become more difficult for many people. Many parts of this are due to the fact that the Social Insurance Agency's applications have since proved to be devastating. Madam President, I would like Försäkringskassan has since 2017 demanded that those who need an adapted car should buy a larger and more expensive car than most can choose to buy. By requiring the cars to be equipped with original equipment, the authority escapes the costs of adaptation measures. By the requirement that a person obtains a minibus, the Social Insurance Agency's costs for installing a wheelchair robot that lifts the wheelchair into the car as well as costs for lowering the car floor. We can't keep doing this. The reductions and regulatory changes from 2017 have had several consequences for both individuals and society. Many have not been able to afford to buy the large car that the Social Insurance Agency thought should be bought. It has been possible to deal with additional costs of up to SEK 350 000. In addition, the large car generates higher fuel costs and significantly higher vehicle tax, which the person should pay. For many people with extensive functional variations, as I said at the outset, their own car is the only option because public transport does not work for them. Therefore, I am pleased that we are now making changes to the law in a positive direction so that we can get back to a sensible car support that allows one to choose a smaller, cheaper and more appropriate car, a car that fits better. I will continue to follow this issue carefully. I do not think we are finished with it, because this is legislation that must constantly follow its time. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I support the committee's proposal.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-76	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Parliament really shows that we are working at a furious pace in this coronan era. Madam President, I would like I really think that it is wise to be careful to draw clear and far-reaching conclusions when in the midst of a crisis. However, some things are quite obvious when it comes to the Swedish handling of the ongoing coronapandemine, such as the government's failure to get large-scale testing started as well as insufficient health care preparedness. When the next crisis comes, we as a country need to be better equipped. The biggest failure in Sweden is, of course, that we have seriously failed to protect our elderly despite the fact that it has been and is one of the most important elements of the Swedish Corona strategy. Nine out of ten who died in covid-19 in Sweden have been 70 years or older, and over 40 per cent of the deceased have lived in retirement homes, in special housing. The responsibility for this failure is, of course, shared. For example, the Government is responsible for the fact that it was not until 30 March decided to impose a restraining order on our retirement homes. We in this House are responsible for ensuring that the legislation governing care for the elderly is both clear and effective, while our 290 municipalities, together with their operators, bear the main responsibility for the activities carried out. Madam President, I would like Why do I start my speech by talking about the Corona crisis? Why am I talking about the far too many deaths in care for the elderly, when this debate is going to be about the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the Inspection for Care and Care? Because I am convinced that the many deaths in the care of the elderly are due in part to shortcomings in the activities, deficiencies which are hopefully detected in supervision or which have, even better, already been detected and remedied. The shortcomings and problems of care for the elderly, which have been exposed by the Corona crisis and are now under intense debate, underline the importance of good supervision. Quality deficiencies in healthcare and care are ultimately about life and death. That is why it is so important that we have effective supervision of healthcare and care. That is why IVO was founded, and that is why IVO needs to be given better opportunities to fulfil its mission. IVO's mission is to contribute through supervision and authorisation testing to health care that is safe, of good quality and conducted in accordance with laws and other regulations. IVO was set up by the then alliance government in 2013 in order to create stronger and more powerful supervision. The creation of an independent inspection authority created better conditions for this. However, the Swedish National Audit Office believes that IVO has not fully lived up to its role as a supervisory authority. That, Madam President, is worrying and something that we must urgently try to remedy. An important explanation that the Swedish National Audit Office points out that IVO has problems taking on its role is that the government has not given IVO stable or long-term conditions. The Swedish National Audit Office therefore makes serious criticism of the government. More seriously, I think it is that the government does not take proper note of the criticism. The Swedish National Audit Office notes, among other things, that IVO's appropriations consisted to a fairly large extent of temporary funds distributed one year at a time. The government's response to this criticism is that in cases where temporary funds have been allocated, the government considers that this has been justified. The argument is similar to the discussions I sometimes have at home with my four-year-old. I ask my son why, and his short answer is often My son's argument in those cases is not very convincing, nor is the government. I and the Moderates agree with the view of the National Audit Office. IVO must be able to plan for stable and long-term operations and staff supply. Stable and long-term human resources provision is a prerequisite for the Authority to recruit and retain the necessary staff for its supervisory activities. Madam President, I would like IVO is an extremely important authority with a three-part vision: to keep track, to create learning and to make care better and safer. It is the government's responsibility to ensure that IVO is in a position to realise its vision. That is why, Madam President, I am in favour of the reservation, which is that the Government should comply fully with the recommendations of the National Audit Office.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-89	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the reservations contained in the report to be approved. The inspection of care and care, IVO, is an important supervisory authority. An example of its tasks is to review activities related to the Social Services Act, the Act on Support and Service to Certain Persons with Disabilities and the Health Care Act. The work of the IVO is very important precisely today, when there is a great need to monitor the activities of the Corona epidemic. IVO is needed to strengthen patient safety and to detect abuses. At the end of May, IVO presented the results of the most recent supervision, and it was noted that since mid-March around 3 000 signs of risk have been received in health care and long-term care. About 40 percent were considered to be of a serious nature. IVO also announced that the proportion of serious deficiencies is increasing and that most indications of deficiencies are related to the Stockholm area. In the Swedish National Audit Office's report, however, the inspection of healthcare and care – a supervisory activity with obstacles – is flagged because IVO also has shortcomings in its role as a supervisory authority. There are problems in the IT environment, there is a lack of efficiency in some areas and so on. Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats think it is good that the government supports IVO with improving several of the parts. It is important for IVO to have the necessary resources and conditions. The government must recognise this and take responsibility for the existence of a stable financial framework for the agency and the conditions for working up an adequate capacity in the best way in terms of structure and staff. The Swedish Democrats also believe that stronger measures are needed for the routine supervision of all retirement homes in Sweden. We can see in these times that in many places there are major deficiencies in the care of the elderly, and the excess mortality during the pandemic is 30% in Sweden and 100% in Stockholm. The Bolund Government stated last week in this House that these were incorrect figures, and I wish the government were right for once in what they say. Unfortunately, however, all citizens, we have a government that has allowed this to happen. We need to take strong action to protect the elderly and to put the elderly in order in Sweden. IVO is an important part of this work. We Swedish democrats protect the best interests of the people of Sweden and want to do everything in our power to create security during this crisis, not least for those who are particularly vulnerable, and to save as many lives as possible. Crisises must not affect how we take care of the groups in society that are in greatest need of help. The government must stand on a secure and solid foundation and be able to protect its citizens. This is part of the community contract. If such fundamental things do not work, I can assure you, Madam President, that Sweden's citizens do not think it is cool or fun to pay taxes. At the beginning of the pandemic, I stood in this House hoping and praying that our nation would not be hit so hard. Unfortunately, the government failed to protect our elderly, and our citizens became those most affected by all the Nordic nations. In fact, we were the fifth hardest hit country in the world. It is quite clear that Sweden was not at all equipped to deal with a crisis of this kind, and thousands are those who have had to pay their lives for the shortcomings of the government. Madam President, I would like We look forward to seeing IVO's future work in the wake of the crisis.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-100	Madam President, I would like The Health and Care Inspection, IVO, is an extremely important authority established at the initiative of the Christian Democrats under the alliance government. A well-functioning and independent supervision of all activities related to the Social Services Act, LSS and the Health Care Act is needed to strengthen patient safety and confidence in the sector. The Authority shall also ensure good opportunities for individuals to complain and report suspected maladministration. The importance of a strong supervisory authority is clear, not least during the course of coronapandemia. Today we are debating a report from the Swedish National Audit Office entitled Inspection for Health and Care – a supervisory activity with obstacles. Unfortunately, it shows that IVO does not fully live up to its role as a supervisory authority. It is important to bear in mind that IVO is still a young authority, and of course it takes time for an authority to find the right forms of activity and the recommendations that are made. Having said that, we Christian Democrats take the assessments of the Swedish National Audit Office very seriously. We regret that in its current letter, the Government chooses not to take measures to comply with all the recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office. As a single party, we Christian Democrats therefore wrote a follow-up motion on this matter. It is gratifying that the previous speaker and their parties support this motion. I would therefore also like to support the reservation contained in the report. I regret that not all parties do. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office believes, among other things, that the efficiency of supervisory activities has been slow, that the sharper sanctioning tools are used to a limited extent and that there is no easy-to-access assessment support. Furthermore, it considers that there are problems in the IT environment and in terms of internal efficiency and access to assessment bases for supervisory decisions and that support schemes need to be developed. This is serious criticism, and it is positive that the government in this part is responding to the recommendations and will take action. But the government should also heed the Swedish National Audit Office's observations that it is difficult to follow the results of the agency's work over time. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that there is no systematic follow-up of how those inspected take on the changes and that it is therefore difficult for the agency to report what has happened after the supervision efforts. Then the whole purpose falls a little bit. The recommendation is therefore to ensure that IVO's reporting of supervisory results can be monitored over time. The government's response states that it will follow the agency's efforts in this area. However, we Christian Democrats believe that the government must take steps to ensure that the results can actually be followed over time. Furthermore, the Swedish National Audit Office considers that IVO has partly lacked the ability to conduct supervision and that the government's economic governance has neither been consistent nor long-term. IVO has had difficulties in recruiting and retaining staff, which can be explained by the fact that the Authority's level of funding has varied over time and that the Authority has at the same time carried out a great deal of development work. The recommendation from the Swedish National Audit Office is self-evident: The Government should provide a stable financial framework for IVO to be able to plan for a sustainable and long-term supply of skills in order to fulfil its supervisory mandate. I very much regret that the government does not heed this criticism. It is essential that the financial framework is adequate and predictable in the long term to ensure that the Authority is well placed to conduct strategic, effective and consistent supervision. This is a priority of the Christian Democrats in our budget, Madam President. The agency is still relatively young and is in development work. In order to ensure that IVO maintains a high level of competence and performs its supervisory tasks satisfactorily, the Government should take the necessary measures to create a stable financial framework. Finally, we Christian Democrats believe that the government should return to the Riksdag in a year's time with a report of the measures taken to give IVO stable and long-term conditions for carrying out its work strategically, effectively and in a uniform manner throughout the country, in accordance with the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations. Sweden's welfare must work throughout the country.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-111	Madam President, I would like I often criticise the previous government – well-deserved criticism, I think. I think that both former Prime Minister Reinfeldt and former Minister for Social Affairs and Health Göran Hägglund deserve criticism on many points, but perhaps not on one point: the inspection was set up for health and social care. I think it was a wise and balanced decision that has helped to develop Swedish healthcare. I see that IVO conducts serious inspections of both public and private activities and contributes to developing welfare in Sweden. They deserve praise for this. I also think it has improved since the division of work between IVO and the patient boards was clarified. This has made the workload of the Inspection for Health and Care more reasonable. Earlier in this debate, several Members have mentioned the ongoing pandemic and the covid-19 crisis. I wasn't going to do that, but I still feel compelled to mention this a little bit. I think you should be careful so far to point fingers and tell them that it or it has done wrong. This crisis is currently in full swing and killing people in a way that I think we all think is terrible. No politicians have deliberately allowed this infection to spread in Sweden. If we end up in such a language, the debate is vulgarized. Then, of course, there are reasons for IVO to inspect how the carers have dealt with the crisis. There are, of course, reasons for the Commission which will eventually be appointed to examine how different levels of our society have dealt with the crisis. Personally, I would like to send you a tip on one thing that you should inspect, namely how it can be that there have been 1 000 deaths in Stockholm Municipality's elderly care. That's four times more than in the whole of Norway! I think that we need to consider both what responsibility national authorities have and how the political leadership in Stockholm municipality has handled elderly care. This is probably said about the current crisis, which I think we will have reason to come back to. As I said, I have a positive view of IVO. Together with Sofia Nilsson and former member Emma Henriksson, I sit on the IVO Transparency Council, and I follow the activities closely. I also think that the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations on many points are justified and correct. We need to work hard to develop a uniform decision-making system that works the same across the country, and we definitely need to improve the digitalisation resources of IVO. In fact, however, I question the criticism of the economic governance of the business. Most of the supplements that have been given to IVO are permanent. Then IVO has sometimes received supplements because they have had temporary assignments and other things. This is a discussion that should be conducted continuously and also handled in the parties' various budget allocations. In their draft budgets, the parties may submit other proposals for budgeting to the IVO if they so wish. But I do not think that the Swedish National Audit Office is right on this point. For this reason, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-119	Madam President, I would like I was almost amazed when a praise came from Mrs Dag Larsson to the former alliance government. It was welcome. It is good that we are broadly agreed that it is important to have an independent, independent authority to supervise care and that we have an ambition to further develop the inspection authority. I hope that Dag Larsson and colleagues in the Transparency Council will make a good contribution to this. I think it is important that IVO is given better economic opportunities to operate and that there is a better long-term perspective and clarity in economic governance. However, I am leaving that discussion and would like to raise another issue, which we have dealt with in this House for several years, namely the importance of making the same demands on public activities as on private ones. Dag Larsson mentioned that IVO does good reviews of both public and private activities. This applies, of course, to one part of the mission, i.e. the oversight mission. However, the licensing mandate only applies to privately operated activities. There, a majority in the Riksdag has actually made an announcement, in 2017 it was well, that there should be corresponding requirements for public activities. The government and government parties have said no to that. My simple question is: Why?
i-NtTes7yaZKPvGk5DxBU4bX	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Hultberg, for the question. We are going to have political debates, and it is important that we highlight the political differences between the political parties, because democracy benefits from it, quite simply. I also believe that the political discussion will benefit from having a fair debate, from not attacking others for what they obviously do not think and from a good tone in the political debate. A fair debate also includes commending political opponents when they have wise proposals or being prepared to consider wise proposals from political opponents. I think it's a good idea to consider licensing. Such a discussion should be possible. Previously, former MP Ylva Johansson was interested in the system that has been built up in Denmark, which authorises both private and public performers. Personally, I think it is an exciting system that one should be able to consider in the future. This is a debate that I am happy to come back to.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-124	Madam President, I would like Of course, I welcome the small opening. I hope that this is an opinion that could be taken not only by Mr Larsson but also by his party and the government. It would be welcome if we could get an order in Sweden where we have a focus on quality and not on operating form. It concerns health care, school and all public-funded activities. I think it would be important to make similar demands on public-run activities as on private ones. The government has dismissed the will of the majority of the parliament because there is a difference because, according to the legislation, municipalities are responsible for social services, for example. With that responsibility comes in some magical way competence and quality, the government seems to mean. But I don't think it's that simple. I therefore believe that it would be important to make the same demands on public-run activities as on private ones. We're not going after companies. Nor should we pursue publicly-driven activities. But we are going to pursue poor quality, and then it is important that the supervisory authority, in this case IVO, be given that opportunity.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-127	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Mr Hultberg. I think this is a discussion that should be held. I'm prepared to bring it to my own party as well. I think we should look at how our neighbours have done, not least Denmark, but I do not think it is just about quality assessments and removing activities that do not live up to acceptable quality, whether they are private or public. I believe that this is also about other things, such as public transparency in all publicly funded activities. Citizens also have the right to know how their tax revenue is spent, whether it be private or public. So I think it is a broader field that should be considered when it comes to these kinds of issues.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-129	Madam President, I would like How nice to be standing here in the speaker's chair again, and what fun to finally debate intellectual property rights! We do that far too rarely, I think. Sometimes I get the question: What is intellectual property really? The simple answer to that is really: all the assets that companies have that are not material. Intangible assets account for approximately 80 per cent of the value of enterprises. It's about patents, trademark protection, design protection – which this wallpaper is an example of – and so on. As intellectual property is a growing part of the value of companies and something that needs to be put more and more focus on protecting, it is very welcome that the new criminal jurisdiction is grossly infringing intellectual property rights. For example, a company paid no less than 40 billion for the Greta Gris brand. It says a lot about how important brands and other intangible values are. I argue that good intellectual property is a prerequisite for continued growth and strong competitiveness in Sweden. That is why it is important that we make these efforts for those who systematically and plannedly exploit intangible assets in a way that is illegal. The current scale of IPR infringements runs from minimum fines to maximum imprisonment for two years. It is about 35 - 40 years since we put these scales of penalties, and a great deal has happened since then. Unfortunately, large-scale and industrially driven intrusion problems have developed, leading to major damage to society as a whole. Madam President, I would like In order to counter this trend and to create room for proportionate penalties for the most serious infringements of intellectual property rights, the government is now proposing specific scales of penalties for intentional serious crimes and their inclusion in all intellectual property laws. Here is the proposal that the sentence should be imprisonment for a minimum of six months and a maximum of six years, and the legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force already on 1 September this year. It seems that the majority of Parliament is behind the proposals, and I welcome that. However, the Swedish Democrats have a reservation that they want the proposed amendment to be evaluated so that it does not target individuals. But the reservation is a clear blow to the air, for it is stated several times in the bill that this applies to intentional intrusions of an industrial nature. So it is not aimed at private individuals. I therefore propose rejecting that reservation. Unfortunately, a majority in the Committee on Economic Affairs is sending an announcement to the government about another intellectual property directive, the copyright directive, an EU directive. This directive was very much debated before it was negotiated and decided in Brussels. All parties in the Swedish Parliament except the Social Democrats voted against it in the EU Board. Sweden's line in the Council was, of course, then to vote against. However, Sweden was only one in six countries that did so, so the directive was passed. We Social Democrats are proud to stand up for the rights of authors online too, and the DSM Directive is about that – to implement the laws and regulations we have in the rest of society also online. You should not be able to get free lunches and exploit people's works without paying for it just because it is done digitally. We do not love all parts of the DSM Directive. We worked hard to get changes through article 15 in particular, so now it looks much better, we think. But, of course, we followed Parliament's will and, as has been said, voted 'no' in the Council. Now there is a great and unique effort to implement this in Swedish law. Since the debate was polarized and there were many excesses and errors, the Ministry of Justice has begun a process called legislation in large groups. Here, everyone who wants to, more than a hundred stakeholders from different directions, participates in order for us to get as wise and good implementation of the directive as possible. I very much welcome this. You will be aware that all Member States will have to implement the Directive in their own right by 7 June 2021. The motion supported by the majority of the Committee on Economic Affairs in the form of an announcement to the Government will make this work more difficult. The Moderates' motion states that they want Sweden to seek to amend the Directive in Brussels. Firstly, there are errors in the exercise. It is said that it creates uncertainty for smaller operators, and it wants it to be wordings in the proportionality directive based on the size of technical platforms. However, this is already inscribed, so it is a blow in the air. However, it is gratifying that the Moderates in their motion look forward to having licensing agreements with organisations representing cultural creators. This is something that the government has worked hard for and also got into the directive. I am pleased that we agree at least on this point. However, I am very concerned about the announcement supported by the majority of the committee. It is inappropriate because it contains pure inaccuracies. It is unrealistic because I have not found a single example of a directive that has been changed before it has even been implemented in the Member States' legal systems. It is also rude, if not disrespectful, to all those who are currently trying to implement this directive as wisely and as well as possible in our Swedish legislation. Madam President, I would like As I said, intellectual property is extremely important, and much is happening in this area. Finally, I would like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 2 and to thank the Green Party and the Left for abstaining from the announcement, even though they also voted against the directive in the European Council. They'll have all the credit for that.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-147	Madam President, I would like For us Moderates, this is an important report on the basis of the Government's proposal to tighten the penalties for the most serious infringements of intellectual property rights. We have also received a majority in favour of an announcement to the government on a revision of the EU Copyright Directive, an issue which the Government Office must now address. I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3, as we see the possibility that strong patents are building blocks for entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship, and also that a modernisation of the regulatory framework takes place on the basis of new media. Madam President, I would like In a modern society, not only products and services change. Many of today's great values are found in ideas and knowledge. It is a development that has been going on for a long time and has now, with globalisation and digitalisation, increased the value of intangible assets. It is today in various network services, functions and systems that the major development steps are taken and the great wealth is created. It is a rapid development and a development in which the legislation has not been followed. We need both improved legislation with penalties that are raised on the basis of the loss of value it actually is to lose an intangible asset. Legislation is still adapted to the fact that theft of assets means, by definition, taking a physical product. Madam President, I would like There is currently a structured and organised crime in this area. In the same way as in other industries, it creates shadow economies that create unhealthy competition for those who comply with regulations and create intangible products. In addition, this could pose a security risk to an open democratic society and open trade. The fact that there is now a strong majority to tighten the scale of penalties for intentional material crime is a good thing. The sentence is now proposed to be between at least six months and a maximum of six years in prison. It is reasonable that a gross theft of an intangible asset, that is, a theft planned and planned in the same way as other serious planned crimes, should be severely punished. Only then can we protect assets and thus also protect those who bought or created this value. Madam President, I would like The world needs more creators of intangible values, and we need to protect them and the ownership of the values they create. The dilemma of politics is to have time to create good, applicable legislation based on the social development that is taking place. This is one such area, an area which, moreover, has a great need to be integrated with legislation within the EU. We also have reservations about the need to push the intellectual property issues more strongly in Europe. Not only software and ideas are part of the intangible values. Among other things, the link tax system needs to be reviewed. Sweden is also a leader in form and design. Here are many of the products and values of the future. According to the OECD, piracy of Swedish products accounts for more than SEK 28 billion annually, which corresponds to 2 per cent of the value in this area. Madam President, I would like We hope that, with more stringent penalties in this area, there will be not only a reduction in the number of crimes but also a change of attitude. Theft in the intellectual property field is as great a crime as other crimes and enormous values come into the wrong hands here. Although there is now some work at the Government Office, we hope that the content of our announcement will eventually gain legal force.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-159	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Olsson! It was nice to hear that Lotta Olsson and the Moderates emphasize that we should protect those who create different forms of values. That's where we're in complete agreement. However, when it comes to demanding that it be revised so soon after the vote on the DSM Directive and before it has even been implemented in national legislation, I wonder how the Moderates think. In what way, do you think, is a directive that has not yet been implemented to be revised? That's my first question. My second question concerns what Mr Olsson said about link tax. What does the honourable Member mean? There is no link tax. What does the honourable Member object to, and what does the honourable Member want to see instead?
i-fa4218358311b0aa-162	Madam President, I would like Now I have to look at my purpose as a politician. It is definitely not doing the job in the Government Office or the job of the officials who are working to make team improvements easier. I think Åsa Eriksson almost persists in that it will now be difficult. It is often the case that when a new regulation has been implemented and sat down it is much more difficult to change. If you want change, you have to run it early and be progressive. We do not think that the government has been sufficiently progressive on these issues. This actually concerns some of our great values, just like soil and forest, in Sweden. A large part of our economy in recent years has come about in this area, so these are hugely important values. When it comes to link tax, many of the systems are old-fashioned. The tax system and legislation are not made based on how we work today. We are seeing the huge change that has taken place now with the Corona crisis. We work from home and go in and use links on a completely different one. How will the legislation be designed so that we have access to a lot of things without putting it behind bars? And how do we do this in a smart way so that at the same time you can gain access to what you have created at the other end? It must of course pay off to produce both knowledge and new design and technology online.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-166	Madam President, I would like I didn't get any wiser. I believe that Mr Olsson contradicts himself in his speech. I agree that, just as in the case of land and forests and other forms of ownership, copyright is very important. However, the changes proposed by the Moderates in their motion on the DSM Directive impair property rights and the conditions for authors. How on earth does Mr Olsson believe that ownership would be strengthened by the revision of the DSM Directive as the Moderates wish? That's one thing. The second is that, as I said, there is no link tax. What the DSM Directive and we Social Democrats want is for authors to be given the right to charge for their work online as well. As a private person, I don't pay anything when I click on a link, but the platform that provides material should be able to conclude agreements with the producer so that it is paid. This is what it is all about, nothing else. There's no treasure. There is also no payment requirement, but the DSM Directive allows for the conclusion of contracts. In addition, people who feel that their materials have been stuffed when uploading on a platform are given the opportunity to question this more quickly and get their material up. I would like to ask Mr Olsson: how on earth can your motion strengthen the authors?
i-fa4218358311b0aa-170	Madam President, I would like What I'm saying may seem a little contradictory. What it's all about is creating new systems for how to credit for what you've created but still gain access to it. Many of the systems are immensely old-fashioned and not adapted. Åsa Eriksson can have a point in what she says about what you can get. One may not be able to access, and this may benefit the large platforms, as it may be difficult for smaller players to make their way. There's a need for a briefing. As with everything else, there is a great deal of legislation in society that is much simpler and that is constantly being revised. I don't understand why Åsa Eriksson doesn't see what we see, that it's really needed. This is something that Sweden has good use of, because we are very good at making products. If you can easily market your products online, you have a great value in it, unlike whether the systems are complicated, difficult and inaccessible. A review is needed.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-173	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating intellectual property issues on the basis of the bill entitled "Strengthened Penalty for the most serious infringements of intellectual property rights". In the report, the Swedish Democrats have two reservations: reservation 1 and reservation 4. More on these soon, but I would like to take this opportunity to ask for the approval of reservation 1. Together with the Moderates, the Christian Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals, we are calling on the government to revise the new EU copyright directive, in which we believe that the provisions relating to upload filters and the so-called link tax should be abolished. Link tax means that digital platforms, which most of us use daily, have to pay a license for linked materials that we users post. No one knows exactly where the borders will go today because there are no court cases. A reasonable concern is that the opportunities to conduct satire, opinion formation and social criticism are restricted. In this context, I would like to highlight that precisely this is something that we in the Swedish Democrats particularly highlight in reservation 4, namely that Sweden should counteract rules in the area of copyright that conflict with the interest of a free internet and a free formation of opinions. The development of the EU copyright directive in this part is worrying and unfortunately, I think, goes in the anti-democratic direction. The issue of so-called upload filters is central from a democratic point of view. With upload filters, digital tools are intended to automatically sift away what is suspected of being protected by copyright. In order for the digital platforms to avoid fines, it is reasonable to believe that algorithms will sometimes remove such things if they are not copyright protected. That's one thing. The second is that the need for upload filters risks becoming a huge competitive advantage for giants such as Google, Facebook and Youtube, as smaller uploaders will not be able to afford to pay for these features. I think that politicians, regardless of party colour, should look with concern at the fact that Facebook and Youtube's monopoly-like position is further strengthened and that those with small adjustments in their algorithms can influence democratic elections by deplatforming or pushing for certain people or messages. Madam President, I would like Now to reservation 1 of the Swedish democrats, which stems from a follow-up motion on the bill Strengthened punishment for the most serious cases of infringement of intellectual property rights. The Swedish Democrats have supported the bill, which proposes to tighten the scale of penalties for the most serious infringements of intellectual property rights in all intellectual property laws. However, we have two clear additional requests. First of all, we already want to decide that the legislation will be evaluated three years after its introduction, in order to ensure that the law will be applied in a reasonable manner and used against precisely large-scale organised crime, not against individuals. In addition to this, we would like to emphasise, overall, that criminal law balances in terms of sanctions must be derived from the principles of proportionality and equivalence. The scale of penalties provided for in the new proposed legislation allows for penalties corresponding, for example, to the penalties for serious sex offences. The now revised scale of penalties for intellectual property rights should therefore be reviewed again in order to respond more broadly to the principles of proportionality and equivalence.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-183	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that on one point I actually agree with Mrs Fransson, and that concerns the problem of the dominance of the major tech platforms and that they are very problematic from a democratic point of view. However, I cannot understand in any way how the honourable Member brings this into line with the DSM Directive. There is nothing in the DSM Directive that makes the platforms bigger or more monopolistic – quite the contrary. The DSM Directive requires platforms to enter into agreements with collecting societies on payment and also strengthens our – citizens' – opportunities to get right if any filters stop legal material. So I do not agree with the honourable Member at all. However, I would like to ask Mrs Fransson the same question that I put to Mr Olsson. What do you mean, link tax? There is no link tax. Please explain this concept to me. I also wonder why some people, such as newspaper subscribers or those of us who have resolved a fee to Spotify, should pay for protected materials but not others. Is it not the case that we all have to pay in some way, or that someone pays – for example a platform – when copyrighted material is used? Or is it that the Swedish Democrats simply think that everything should be free? That is my question to the honourable Member. Then I must also say that the follow-up motion in which you wish to see an evaluation within three years seems completely unreasonable when it is already laid down in the directive that the European Commission will report by 7 June 2026 on the functioning and compliance of the directive. I say that the Swedish Democrats have not even read the evidence.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-188	Madam President, I would like I think in my speech I said what the so-called link tax is. But I can read before again: The so-called link tax means that digital platforms that we use should pay licenses. This is what it is all about. And I do not think that Åsa Eriksson does not understand what I am referring to. It's not called the link tax, but it's the name you use when you talk about it. It is certainly not the case that we in the Swedish Democrats believe that everything online should be free and that we should not combat, for example, the dissemination of copyrighted material, especially with a view to making money from other people's works and so on. That is why we have also supported this proposal on the whole. But the fear of how this may be used is that it may be more difficult to conduct opinion formation and satir. Now it is said from the EU that that is absolutely not the aim. But it's still a sloping plane that we're on. At least I mean it. If we then link texts, the big giants may suddenly use them for their own political agenda and refer to EU legislation. For example, we see Facebook being accused with good reason of having affected the recent presidential elections in the United States.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-192	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Swedish Democrats do not think that everything should be free online, but that those who have created things must actually be paid for their work. I would also like to make it clear that what Mrs Fransson calls a link tax is thus an opportunity for platforms to conclude agreements with, for example, newspaper publishers on payment. There is no coercion; it is an opportunity that exists in the DSM Directive. Then I would like to take this opportunity to make it clear that the honourable Member does not need to be particularly afraid of restricting freedom of expression. That is very clear. If you have read the DSM directive, you can see that it clearly states that there are exceptions for quotation rights, for criticism, for parody and so on. Then the platforms that enter into agreements with, for example, Stim, Sami, Ifpi or which organisations it can be uploading all protected material and using it freely. That is the whole point, that is to say that it will be better for us users and that it will be better for copyright holders. For example, Alphabet, which made a profit of around USD 34 billion last year, is the most advertising revenue. They will have to pay a larger share to copyright holders. I think that's great. Does Mr Fransson agree with that?
i-fa4218358311b0aa-196	Madam President, I would like It is uplifting to see that there are new legal options that work mainly with the new generations' ways of using the internet and digital services, such as Spotify, Netflix and so on. In the long run, I hope there may be some equivalent of Spotify for news, so that you don't have to pay for every newspaper. Of course, then it would be much more attractive to pay for such a service in order to be able to share in all the news and so on. This is a development that I very much welcome. I do not think we are very far apart on this particular issue. Nevertheless, I believe that we can have reason to come back to these issues when we see how this is being applied. That is also why we believe, among others, that we should make a Swedish evaluation of this in three years' time.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-198	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that, because of the current situation, I have jumped in here to have a debate on an issue that I do not work on every day. Madam President, I would like We in the Center Party have long been strong supporters of copyright, which is part of property rights. It is important that cultural creators who create images, films, music etc. get paid enough for their products. With this proposal, the government responds to the proposal put forward by the Center Party for the introduction of what is termed serious crimes into copyright law. That is very positive. In market leaders, over 80% of companies' value is often based on intangible values and accounts for 80-90% of EU exports. In addition, Sweden is above the EU average. Innovation, exports and jobs in Sweden – everything depends on intellectual property rights. At the same time, Sweden is at the top of the list when it comes to infringements of copyright in various forms. Updating the legislation to work together with digital development is crucial for creators and for Sweden. That is why, as I have said, the Center Party has pressed for more stringent penalties for the most serious violations of intellectual property rights. There are currently actors in the digital arena who act systematically, internationally and associated with other serious crime in their infringements of copyright. The level of this criminal activity is in some contexts so deep and transparent that it is difficult to distinguish between legitimate activities. This must be stopped, and the introduction of a new criminal offence is an important step along the way. At the same time, it is also important that young people who share copyrighted material with their friends should not suffer draconian punishment. In order for a crime to be assessed as serious, it must be an organised crime to the detriment of society. We should not hunt individuals who do not know the limits of what is legal to share and what is not. We're going after organized crime. Copyright is facing major changes even after the EU Copyright Directive. We are now eagerly waiting to see the Government's interpretation of the directive into Swedish law. From the Center Party we are concerned about what this interpretation might look like, not least because the government has been so unclear through the process. Madam President, I would like We in the Center Party have repeatedly asked Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson whether he can guarantee that only content that violates copyright will be stopped with the new directive and whether he can guarantee that Swedish citizens' freedom of expression online will not be restricted. We have never received an answer on this issue, and that makes us genuinely worried. Indeed, the much-needed updating of the Copyright Directive has not landed quite correctly. This may ultimately lead to a deterioration in the freedom of expression of the citizens and a deterioration of the conditions for an open democratic debate. It is therefore crucial to have an open debate on the consequences of the directive when it comes to becoming Swedish law. The Center Party also believes that it is important to send a signal to the EU that we from the Swedish Parliament are not satisfied with the copyright directive, and the Center Party therefore considers it appropriate that Sweden should work for a revision of the directive – a revision that guarantees protection of both creators' revenues and citizens' freedom of expression. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to stress the need for the government to come back with the investigation on the private copying allowance that Parliament has already decided on. It is an out-of-date substitute that hinders and increases innovation. The government promised to come back with an investigation in the spring of 2020, but none of this has yet happened. To conclude, I would like to support reservation 5.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-208	Madam President, I would like For many years Sweden has been ranked as one of the world's most innovative countries, and the IPR-intensive companies contribute every third job in Sweden. It is therefore important to modernise intellectual property protection and adapt it to today's reality – in this case to judge the most serious cases. The Left Party has previously supported the committee's position that the government's proposal should be supported, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, there should be a call for action on sanctions in the area of intellectual property. In the light of the committee's reasoning in the last part, we have a specific opinion to clarify our position. The Left Party has no objection to the bill and considers that the proposal is fundamentally good and that the legislation has been designed to be functional. In particular, I would like to point out that the government has made a correct assessment when it has drawn up the proposals, so that the legislative changes are aimed at serious, deliberate crimes and not at negligent acts, as the underlying investigation first suggested. This is very important to us and something we have pointed out in the course of the matter. Today, there is an organised infringement activity that causes major damage to society as a whole, which risks putting aside the bones of individual creators, cultural creators and small businesses. It affects entire industries, where we lose huge tax revenue. I would like to stress that it is important for the proposed legislation to have the intended effect and, in the long run, to combat the large-scale organised infringement activities. I look forward to a follow-up of the legislation and that Parliament will have the opportunity to evaluate it after an appropriate period of time. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-211	Madam President, I would like Liberals think that the government's proposal for stricter penalties for the most serious cases of copyright and trademark infringement is generally good. It is simply time that we were given stronger protection. However, there are, above all, some where we do not share the government's view, and this concerns the new EU copyright directive. While negotiations in the EU are concluded, we believe that the government should work within the framework of EU cooperation to ensure that the new copyright directives are revised. There is nothing wrong with doing a review, and it is much easier to do so before the directives have been fully implemented. There are major problems with the directive, which risks restricting freedom of information on the Internet. This includes the publisher's right to receive compensation when someone links to the material they have published, which is called a link tax. Liberals have opposed this throughout the process, and we oppose such a system. We also see great risks in the fact that the directive hampers free debate and opinion formation. The Internet simply will not be what we are used to or look like today. It is therefore a very good thing that a majority of the committee wants to address a declaration to the government that, within the framework of EU cooperation, the new copyright directives are being revised.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-215	Madam President, I would like I was not going to ask for any more reply, but I was so curious about what Mr Teimouri said. There was a slightly more balanced description of what is sometimes called link tax, but I wonder: Why do the Liberals not want those who have written and published texts to be able to conclude agreements with platforms to get paid when the platforms link to the texts? That's my first question. The second thing that made me press the button to request a reply is that the honourable Member said that the internet will not look like we feel it or is used to – something like that said the honourable Member. In what way? What does the honourable Member mean will change on the Internet once the DSM Directive is in place?
i-Qt8oMeswygVD5phqfBxbZ9	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Åsa Eriksson! First of all, we believe that it will be difficult for smaller operators to conclude agreements. With the big players, such as Google, Facebook etcetera, there is a completely different machine that can do that job. I think it is at least as important to look at the small players as to look at those who have copyright. We therefore believe that there will be problems there, and we simply need a review. The directive is not written for the time we live in today. Then I come to my second part, when it comes to what we see as censorship or as a risk of having problems with freedom of expression. That is where I think the internet we are seeing today will not look the same tomorrow. Of course there will be problems – no system worldwide will be able to say whether or not something is satire and humor, and then the main rule will be to remove it. Then you who have posted whatever it is may be asking to have it published because it is satire or humor. I don't think that's the way to go.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-220	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Teimouri. Then I would just like to say that it is very clear in the DSM Directive that platforms should take measures proportionate to their size, both in terms of cost and in terms of effort. So I do not think the honourable Member needs to be so worried about small platforms. Moreover, there is no coercion to conclude agreements, but it is an opportunity. It is also the case, as I hope the honourable Member is well aware, that new companies – start-ups – are excluded. Start-ups in Europe have also supported the Directive. That there is no system in the world that is perfect, I really agree. This is also the case today – for example Youtube uses filters for uploading, and unfortunately a lot of material is being stopped today that should be allowed to come up. The difference is that today I have no opportunity whatsoever to turn to Youtube and ask them to post my material. That's what I get from the DSM Directive. So no one can guarantee that materials will not be stopped unnecessarily; so far I agree. It could happen. The difference now becomes as follows: In what way are the Liberals opposed to this?
i-fa4218358311b0aa-224	Madam President, I would like I'm still worried about the small players. Although it should be proportionate, there will still be problems for small operators. Just as we have a lot of people who have copyright, there are actors who should be able to implement the directives on the new laws. Moreover, I am still concerned that the general rule will be that you censor first, and then someone who has posted something on the internet will have the opportunity to ask for the material to be re-opened. I think that is the wrong way to go. The directive is written for a time that we have already passed. That is why we need to review it. I do not think this is so much to ask. It is better that we do this review now, before this has been implemented. Then it will be much more difficult.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-226	Madam President, I would like We are debating the important intellectual property issues. The Green Party supports reservation 2 of the report. I will briefly comment on what has been the great debate in this report, namely the new EU copyright directive. Basically, this is a good and important directive. It's a lot about copyright people's right to their work and their product. One example of this is the inclusion of the question of fair compensation for cultural workers, which is something that the Green Party thinks is good. On the other hand, we have opposed the whole directive because it contains elements that we simply do not think are good. This applies above all to what is called the link tax and what is called the upload filter. The reason for this is that these parts are far too far-reaching. They risk being censored, and they risk freedom online. That is why we voted 'no' when this came up in the European Council. But Sweden was voted down, and so we see no point in now coming and trying to destroy and obstinate the implementation of the directive. There is simply a majority for this, so now it should be implemented.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-231	Madam President, I would like I support all the Moderate reservations, but in order to gain time, I only ask for reservation 5. Today we are discussing the climate action plan presented by the government together with the Center Party and the Liberals. As a new climate policy action plan is presented once per mandate, only six additional action plans are presented before 2045, when Sweden will have net zero greenhouse gas emissions. Each individual action plan therefore plays a major role in achieving our climate goals. I therefore regret that the government is lagging behind in terms of major efforts, for example in electrification of both road transport and industry, and that the action plan does not meet the requirements of the Climate Act in terms of measuring the impact of the measures taken. This is a conclusion not only drawn by the Moderates, but also by the experts of the Climate Policy Council in their examination of the Government's action plan. The Moderates require the government to come back with an updated action plan that evaluates the climate benefits of the reforms, so that the policy knows what works and does not work. Only then can we have a climate policy that produces results. Climate change is here and now. Human activity in the last century has caused the average temperature to rise faster than ever. Polaris are melting, and more and more extreme weather is hitting us in the form of floods, droughts and fires. We know enough to know that we need to act. As experts at SNS or economist John Hassler usually say: If we just do the right things, it is a cheap investment compared to the alternative. Then it is also important that we do the right thing in politics, but when the government does not follow up on its own efforts, we go blindly. Ultimately, global action is needed to reduce emissions, but Sweden must also take its share of the responsibility. It was against this background that the Moderates and a majority of the parties in this House agreed on a climate policy framework with the Climate Act, the Climate Policy Council and, above all, the long-term goal that Sweden should have no net greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere by 2045. It is Sweden's contribution – ultimately – to ensure that we reach the Paris Agreement, where the world's countries have agreed to keep the global temperature increase well below 2 degrees and preferably below 1, 5. According to the Climate Act, the Government will present an action plan to the Riksdag every four years. The Action Plan is intended to cover the entire term of office and is probably the government's most important climate policy document. Nevertheless, as I was concerned about, there is a lack of sufficient effort in the government's electrification policy, which is crucial for reducing emissions in both industry and transport. The government wants to set up an electrification commission. It is excellent, but the Moderates have efforts here and now to electrify road transport and help the industry to switch. We invest six times as much as the government in charging infrastructure for passenger cars and ten times as much as the government to switch heavy transport. We are committed to supporting the transformation of the industry and want to see a strategy for carbon capture and storage, CCS and bio-CCS, in Sweden. We also have strong views that the government at a time when the demand for electricity is expected to increase by 60 per cent to 2045 in order for the industry to be able to switch to fossil freedom focuses on shutting down fossil-free power strokes. We need more of both renewables and nuclear power; we do not need to pit different fossil-free forces against each other. But, Madam President, this is not a common climate policy debate. This is a debate about the Government's action plan, how it together leads Sweden to reach its climate targets and how it can be done better. In our follow-up motion, the Moderates present our view of the Government's proposal for the direction of climate policy work. We focus on four areas, which I will describe here today. Firstly, the main shortcoming is that the Government's action plan does not meet the requirements of the Climate Act to account for the actual impact of the measures to reduce emissions. Nevertheless, we know that the government's climate policy, as it stands today, is not enough to achieve the climate targets. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which is responsible for Sweden's official statistics on greenhouse gas emissions, notes that emissions are decreasing too slowly. Seven out of eight of the climate measures implemented in recent years have been condemned by expert authorities such as the Institute of Economic Development and the Swedish National Audit Office as ineffective or as measures that had been implemented anyway. Both climate and bonus – malus, which is the government's biggest investment and together costs just over 4 billion per year, is condemned by the same authorities to be expensive without sufficient emission reductions. Important elements of a results-oriented climate policy are the assessment of implemented and planned reforms in terms of climate benefits. Article 5 of the Climate Act therefore contains a description of what the Climate Action Plan should contain. It mentions the outcome of the emission reduction measures taken and the extent to which agreed and planned emission reduction measures can be expected to contribute to the achievement of national and global climate targets. The Moderates are critical that the government's action plan does not contain this. The criticism is confirmed by the Climate Policy Council, the Expert Authority, tasked with evaluating the Government's climate policy. The annual evaluation concludes that the most serious deficiency is that the government does not account for the extent to which the decided and announced actions, in their parts or as a whole, contribute to the achievement of the climate targets. As a result, the Action Plan does not meet the requirements of the Climate Act in this respect. In addition, the actions are consistently vaguely described and lack a timetable for implementation. ..................................................... The fact that the Government's action plan does not meet the requirements of the Climate Act is serious. Therefore, the Moderates believe that the government needs to return to the Riksdag with an updated plan of action. Secondly, Madam President, the Moderates believe that the Climate Policy Council should be given a new mandate to evaluate the effectiveness of the government's individual reforms. The Council's overall mission is to evaluate the government's policy and the basis on which it is based. On the other hand, there is no clear mandate to evaluate the effectiveness of government reforms. The Council that has been created to evaluate the government's climate policy should, of course, also examine the key reforms. Where reforms are deemed ineffective, the Council should point to alternative reforms that better meet the requirement for efficiency and results. The evaluations will then also serve as a basis for future governments' climate action plans. Thirdly, the Moderates believe that climate policy needs to be better integrated into all policy areas, but that it should not be interpreted as meaning that other societal goals are automatically less important. For example, it is crucial that policies and our social objectives continue to take into account people's needs to travel or business needs for transport, as well as to safeguard jobs and growth. The Government proposes that, in connection with the next review of the respective societal objectives, the Government reformulates the targets so that they are consistent with the climate targets. Here the Moderates agree with the Institute of Economic Development, which in its referrals to the Environmental Objectives Committee writes that a review of relevant societal goals is welcome but that climate goals should not be superior to other societal goals. Fourthly, Madam President, Swedish climate policy must also have an international perspective. The Moderates want an ambitious climate policy at home to reach the climate target by 2045. However, emission reductions in Sweden must also lead to emission reductions globally. The government wants impact assessments to be carried out on the effects on the climate in those policy areas where it is relevant, and that is something that the Moderates welcome. But impact assessments must not lead to a policy in which Sweden lowers its emissions at the expense of emissions increasing globally. It is contrary to the overall objective of reducing emissions globally in order to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. That is why we want to see impact assessments that also include possible effects on global emissions. We also believe that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency should be given a new assignment to report the climate benefit of Swedish exports. Swedish industry is in many ways carbon-efficient; most people can agree on that. And research shows that Swedish exports of goods contribute to reduced global emissions. By crowding out goods that generate higher emissions in manufacturing in other countries, the Swedish industry contributes to the total emissions in the world being lower than they could otherwise be. According to EU figures, increased production in Sweden, which produces one tonne of carbon dioxide, on average would reduce global emissions by twice as much. Sweden is thus exporting emission reductions. An important part of Swedish climate policy is therefore to maintain high growth and competitiveness in Swedish industry so that we can export more climate-smart products. The Moderates want emissions, taking into account the climate benefits of exports, to be measured and monitored in the same way as the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency today measures territorial and consumption-based emissions. We simply want to prevent policy from creating bad conditions for Swedish industry and thus forcing climate-smart production to move to other countries. Finally, Madam President, climate change is here and now, and what we do every year matters. The Moderates take the climate challenge very seriously, so seriously that we cannot accept that the government, in the name of the climate, is scattering billions of projects with at best limited benefits for the climate. Nor can we accept a policy that knocks away the bones of Swedish companies so that production is moved abroad to countries with lower environmental standards and continued high or higher emissions. Then we have made no difference at all to the climate. A new climate action plan will be presented once per term of office, which means that there will only be six additional action plans before 2045, when Sweden will have net zero emissions. Each action plan therefore plays a major role in climate action and in achieving the climate target. Experts in the Climate Policy Council note that the Government's action plan does not meet the requirements of the Climate Act. It's a serious flaw. We therefore want the Government to urgently come back with an updated action plan that sets out how the Government's policies can be expected to contribute to the achievement of the national and global climate targets. It's not enough to want well. Climate policy must be treated with the same efficiency requirements as other areas and give priority to actions that deliver results. Only then can we reduce emissions in real terms and not just in rhetoric. The government's policy reduces emissions too slowly to achieve climate targets. This needs to change.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-263	Madam President, I would like In accordance with the law, the government, with the support parties the Center Party and the Liberals, is now presenting a climate policy action plan. This follows from the legislation we now have. Every four years, such an action plan will be developed for the coming years, but we can note that the government ignores the law. The plan does not account for the extent to which the agreed and announced actions contribute to the achievement of the climate targets. The measures are unclear and usually inconcrete. It is largely about a bunch of different investigations that we will see in the next few years how things go. The Climate Policy Council has also stated that the government is breaking its climate law, so what happens then? Not so much, of course. This is a rather strange piece of legislation. From the SD's side, we think it would be nice if the government started work on returning to Parliament with additions in accordance with this legislation. Madam President, I would like As has been said, the action plan consists largely of less concrete proposals, which today are difficult to assess the cost-effectiveness of and the extent to which they contribute to the achievement of climate objectives. The climate issue and efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are a global challenge and require a targeted approach from all countries in the world. The global dimension of the issue makes climate policy complex. For example, an offensive policy in Sweden that contributes to reduced territorial emissions here does not necessarily contribute to reducing global emissions if these activities move to other markets. This perspective is lacking in the government's action plan, and it is of course worrying. If emission reductions are made in a way that reduces Swedish industry's competitiveness, global climate work will suffer as a result of increased emissions in other countries and a negative impact on consumption-based emissions. There is a high degree of self-contradictory in Swedish climate policy. We have a government that wants to prevent companies from investing in Sweden, such as Preem, where the government also ignores the legislation. At the same time, we know that installations are almost always more low-emission in Sweden than in other countries. It is a bit like wanting to reduce emissions in Sweden at any price, although the price is that emissions in the world increase and Swedish jobs and Swedish growth are damaged. In this context, it is important to think about food production. We produce too little food in Sweden today. Regardless of the rate of technological progress in phasing out fossil energy, agriculture will, according to most assessors, be the dominant source of emissions in the future if it succeeds in reducing in the other sectors. For Sweden and for the world, given the environment-friendly Swedish agriculture, a doubling of food production would be good. However, with the current climate targets, this is unlikely to be possible. Food production can at best remain at the same low level. This was noted by IVA when it investigated how Sweden can best achieve the climate targets. At the time, however, we were not particularly pessimistic about development, but there was quite a lot that was to be recorded in other sectors that we do not really know how to do it. Madam President, I would like The main focus of Swedish climate policy must be on contributing to the reduction of emissions at global level and that the measures are cost-effective in terms of emission reduction per krona. The Swedish climate targets should therefore be redrafted, and any climate policy should be evaluated on the basis of how it can contribute to reducing emissions in the world. It is positive that the Action Plan addresses the importance of industry in reducing emissions in Sweden and the importance of research and innovation. One shortcoming, however, is that the action plan does not address the potential for Swedish industry to contribute to the reduction of emissions through climate-friendly exports. In addition, a large part of Swedish industry under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme, which is statutory to achieve net zero emissions in 2045, is required. Industry under this system is therefore, by definition, more climate friendly than outside industry. Promoting Swedish industry, especially the export industry, should therefore be a priority part of climate policy. Madam President, I would like The Government is seeking support in the proposal for a new focus in climate policy. This is perhaps the most problematic assessment of the action plan. For the Swedish Democrats, it is important to work for a country that stands together, a policy that recognizes that, for example, the car is a question of freedom in a sparsely populated elongated country like Sweden and that the cost of owning and driving a car must be reasonable. For example, we can combine environmental thinking with a good business environment. It is about us being able to invest in school while at the same time having an ambitious climate policy. It's about us taking heights because the defense needs more money in the long term, even after 2025. For example, if we are facing a pandemic, which we are currently experiencing as a result of a previously unknown virus, it is a matter of quickly changing priorities and focusing on saving lives in particular. The government doesn't want to pretend about conflicts of interest. It wants to be nicest in the environmental class and declare that climate policy should prevail over all other policies. It doesn't make sense. If, for example, we are facing a pandemic, we should not spend valuable time assessing how disease protection measures and crisis support for industry are hitting the climate. No, then the focus must be on protecting the health of citizens, something which, of course, has to do with both viruses and money in their wallets. No, we cannot have a dogmatic climate policy. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are opposed to the proposal because it is fundamentally wrong to pursue a social objective above all others. It is important that climate policy is taken into account in the formulation of other policies. However, this must not mean that climate policy should in all circumstances be given precedence over all other policies. Cost-effectiveness in climate work is central to ensuring that Swedish climate policy can be implemented without negative impact on jobs and growth and should be included in proposals for a new direction. Every product that can be manufactured here in Sweden instead of by the Communist Party in China is a contribution to the climate work. In the light of the last sentence, I would like to endorse Amendment No 22.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-276	Madam President, I would like I am very proud and happy to have the opportunity here today to debate and discuss the climate issue in the Swedish Parliament. Being able to decide on an action plan for the environment and climate is so crucial for our future. But what are we supposed to do? We will not be able to talk our way out of this climate crisis. We have to show that there is something we can do. Therefore, it is good that Sweden has the ambition to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country in 2045. The Center Party wants to achieve climate neutrality in Sweden and the EU already in 2040. But the covid-19 crisis has unfortunately led to the fact that most of the major emissions now want to pause or stop the climate work. Some, such as Poland, want to leave the most effective climate tool we have, emissions trading. Others want to pause the largest overall climate effort presented in the EU for a long time – the green one. When these countries say no, Sweden must demonstrate that it is possible to combine growth and conversion in order to reduce emissions. When I started working politically on environmental issues, we talked about the major environmental conference that had just taken place in Rio in 1992. There was talk of sustainable development, and the municipalities employed Agenda 21 coordinators on an ongoing basis. In my municipality wetlands were built, and we were out counting onion frogs. The focus was on biodiversity and energy savings, and much was also on waste sorting. Agenda 21 is precisely aimed at environmental policy for the 21st century. Now we're there. The question is whether we have a policy that can face this new century. What has happened during these 20 years? Yes, today the Agenda 21 coordinator calls himself an environmental strategist. There has been some progress in diversity. This is especially true in Skåne where the stork has come back thanks to all newly laid wetlands. A new technology will cause the light bulbs to turn on and off automatically. But now we are also talking about climate change, about coping with floods and building sufficiently high above seawater levels. Madam President, I would like Climate work can take place in the small, individual household. The Center Party thinks most people want to do the right thing. It is important to shop after season and locally grown to reduce transport and to avoid heating tomato greenhouses in winter. Many entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs have also realised that it pays to work for the environment, who see that the customer wants a climate-smart product. It should be easy to make climate-smart decisions. We want to increase information to consumers when it comes to travel, construction, new car purchases and through mandatory climate labelling on the food we buy. We also want to reduce the regulatory burden in order to make it easier, for example, to install solar cells on the roof. The green line taken by the Center Party is an important step in the right direction, but more work is needed. For example, if you live in an apartment, it should be easier to own a share of solar cells on the roof that can provide the apartment with renewable electricity, while these microproducers increase the resilience of society. Structural measures for the climate are also needed. It is a question of, for example, building a bicycle track network that is really connected. There we can look a little at Denmark. They have come much further with their bike infrastructure. Here, municipalities and regions have a key role to play in community planning to ensure that there are safe ways for everyone to travel in urban and rural areas and that there is good public transport. Environmental thinking in social planning is crucial if we are to achieve the eleventh objective of Agenda 2030 on sustainable cities. The fact that climate action is to take place at all levels, everywhere and at the same time, is something that is highlighted in the action plan that we have on the table. It says: There is a need for a broad commitment and anchoring of society as a whole. That's exactly what I'm trying to describe. It is with the individual, in the municipality, in the regions and in the business community that climate work should take place. The conclusion is that work needs to be integrated into several policy areas. Then the decisions need to be followed up so that we know what their effects are. When we start the economy again after the pandemic, the Center Party wants to ensure that the investments help reduce emissions and create more green jobs. We want to equip our society by investing more in renewables and reviewing our livelihoods of socially important resources. We want to drive innovation and make investments possible so that we can get a good boost on the production of infrastructure and environmental cars, for example. For the Center Party, it is not the car itself that is the problem. It is the fossil fuel and the exhaust gas generated by the vehicles. Growth and the environment must go hand in hand. To achieve the goal of a fossil-free Sweden, we need to increase the domestic production of biofuels. The Center Party believes that our public institutions should take precedence, for example, that municipalities' home help cars should have high environmental requirements. Last week I read that the police unfortunately cannot buy in electric cars because they do not meet the requirements for emergency vehicles. There is of course more to be desired here. Coordination and communication are needed in order to be able to make successful procurements. There are also good examples. Last week, Evolution Road was inaugurated in my nearest town, Lund. It is an electric road project that paves the way for fossil-free transport. There are charging rails that can automatically charge the batteries on electric vehicles that drive on the road. This is one of the clear examples of cross-sectoral collaborations with the municipality, university, industry, Region Skåne and Trafikverket. By investing in new technology, using the climate issue as a springboard and strengthening our competitiveness, we will benefit innovative Swedish companies selling environmental technology in other countries. This applies to several areas. In Sweden today, hydropower, wind power and bioenergy account for more than half of energy production. But that's not enough. New smart technology systems will be needed to store energy. It will then be possible to use 100% renewable energy all year round throughout the country. In conclusion, we need to work on the climate issue at all levels. We need to follow-up our political decisions and enable and push our local and regional politicians to take their climate responsibility in community planning. We need to have cross-sectoral cooperation between the state, region, municipality, industry and academia to turn the transport sector into fossil-free. The Center Party wants to enable the individual to make easy choices for a better climate, invest in new technology and lead the way so that Sweden's companies become more competitive and can emerge stronger from the Corona crisis. We want to make it even more profitable to invest in renewable energy sources and thus take responsibility for a policy for the 21st century. We can then achieve the UN's 13th objective of combating climate change. Madam President, I would like Of course, we are behind all our sports requests. We wish that the action plan would go even further in certain areas. However, we choose to put forward a specific opinion in those parts and at the same time push the government for further action. I would therefore like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved in its entirety.
i-PR7oJ27Qt1xFP2A8WGxDPM	Madam President, I would like In May the record was once again broken in the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. 417 millionths CO 2 was in our atmosphere in May. It was also the warmest month so far measured. One might think that emissions have fallen now during the Corona crisis and that we have finally had some control over the climate crisis. Unfortunately, however, this is not the kind of reduction in emissions that we want. This is the result of industries, businesses and transport being shut down overnight in an uncontrolled manner. What we need is a structured transition to a sustainable society. It is a bit of the idea of the Climate Act and the climate policy framework, which stipulates that the government will once every parliamentary term produce just an action plan for how to make a transition in an organised and structured way. It is precisely this climate policy action plan – the first ever from a government in Sweden – that we are discussing today in this House. We in the Left Party share the government's view that much greater efforts are needed to integrate climate policy into all policy areas and to reduce emissions. We had hoped that this would be the common thread of the action plan. But this action plan is rather a benevolent approach to continued reductions in emissions and with notifications of further investigations, calculations, preparations and so on. Unfortunately, the government chooses to bury the sharpest measures in such things as postponing the future, in further investigations. I would say that we already know essentially what needs to be done. When you set up so many new investigations and let them run for such a long period of office, we in the Left Party believe that we are losing time and political momentum. Nor does the Action Plan set out any ambition to deal with the fair aspects that need to be addressed in a climate transition. A more equal distribution of our common resources is a must if we are to have just a good and fair climate change. It is also the case that it is the richest who influence the climate most by virtue of their consumption and how they live. Then it is also perfectly reasonable for us to have a change that points out responsibility to the groups that affect the climate change most. So in order to succeed and win popular acceptance for a change, there must be a clear justice perspective, and the green dimension must be reconciled with the red one. As was said earlier, there is no concrete calculation in the action plan. There is no estimate of the emissions reductions with the announced measures. It is strange, and it unfortunately strengthens the image that the government's plan is more of a directional decision than of the sharp measures that we need so badly. I took part in the presentation of the Climate Policy Council a few months ago, when they had examined the climate action plan. The striking was the first picture they showed at the presentation. It had the text: The plan is not a plan. This summarises the Left Party's criticism of proposal 2019/ 20:65, i.e. the government's so-called climate policy action plan. In order to make this proposal an action plan that really reduces emissions, we in the Left Party propose no less than 74 concrete reforms in the consequential motion we have put forward on the basis of the bill. I refer to the motion so that I do not have to be too tedious in my speech, but there are still some reforms we are highlighting which I would particularly like to press for. We want a sharper climate target, and we want zero emissions by 2040. We in the Left Party also say that emission reductions must be fully carried out with national efforts and not through the purchase of unsafe emission credits in other countries. We want new owner directives and new government instructions for all state companies and authorities to act fully in line with our new climate targets. The plan announces such things, but it must be presented now. The plan must also contain quantifiable measures so that the measures can be followed up and so that we can see that they really lead to the emission reductions we need. We in the Left Party also propose phasing out climate-damaging subsidies. When the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency made an inventory of all so-called environmentally harmful subsidies, they concluded that it was about SEK 60 billion. The Nature Protection Association made a more detailed evaluation of only the climate-damaging subsidies. It was said that it is about SEK 30 billion that goes to subsidies of increased car driving, tax reductions for industry and aviation, subsidies for meat production and other things that we know are putting a heavy burden on our environment and the climate. We want the sparsely populated areas to be compensated for increased fuel taxes. It is very important to increase fuel taxes, but it is actually possible to find ways of compensating those living in sparsely populated areas with, for example, a conversion aid for their diesel or petrol cars. Perhaps we can have a slightly lower tax on fuel in sparsely populated areas. And, of course, we need a change in travel allowance that is precisely environmentally friendly and that is exploited by those who really need to travel by their own car and not by people who live in big cities, as it is today. We want to set up a state-owned green investment bank, much like the one that was introduced in Britain a number of years ago. In this respect, I would like to endorse Amendment No 13, which deals specifically with this issue. It is also about our pension money having to be managed in a much more sustainable way. We welcome the fact that there are now new investment directives for our AP funds, but unfortunately increased returns are still the overall goal. We still see that the AP funds invest our pension money in fossil companies, in companies that devastate rainforests in the Amazon and so on. We want to ban the exploration of coal, oil and fossil gas. We want a standardization of plastic so that certain types of plastic are completely banned. We want an action plan for reducing meat consumption. We want domestic aviation to be included in the climate target for domestic transport. We want a progressive flight tax. We want to ban new car sales of fossil-powered cars by 2025. We want municipalities to be able to stop the establishment of external shopping centres more easily by amending the Planning and Construction Act. One very important thing is that we want the climate targets to govern the infrastructure planning so that we do not get new motorway projects, as announced, for example, here in the Stockholm region. We need state aid to make public transport cheaper. We want to reduce rail rail infrastructure charges. At the same time, we want a road wear charge for heavy traffic on our roads. The trade agreements we enter into with other countries must be fully synchronised with the Paris Agreement so that they are in favour of reducing emissions. Madam President, I would like I know I have oversold my speaking time, but I just want to end by saying that today we are in a crisis – everyone knows that. But a crisis is also an opportunity. I recall the oil crisis in the early 1970s. Then the price of oil increased by four times in a very short time. What did we do? Well, we energy efficient. We phased out the oil boilers in our homes. We invested in district heating, on renewable energy, on electrification overall. We saw that we were facing a path. We could have continued to rely entirely on imported oil, but we did a great deal to reduce our emissions. Now we are faced with a similar path. Then let's not repeat old mistakes. Now we have an opportunity to transform our society so that we build a society that is good for all people, that is more equal and fair and that stays entirely within the limits that nature has set for our existence.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-313	Madam President, I would like We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but in order to gain time at voting time, I am only in favour of reservation 24. The climate action plan is a topic that concerns. That is very clear, not least in view of the number of requests and reservations contained in the report. With this bill, the government intends, after several years of work, to present a plan for how the climate policy work should be carried out during its term of office. This includes decided and planned actions to help achieve the national and global climate targets. One of the most important questions of our time is thus hoped to be addressed. The Christian Democrats' environmental policy is based on the principle of stewardship. Man has a responsibility to manage finite resources and natural values. We who live now will deliver our earth to the next generation, and that earth will be their home. The policy should therefore, based on the precautionary principle, be designed in such a way that both public, our companies, civil society and individuals are given the opportunity to do the right thing, i.e. to steer towards good governance and sustainable development. The Christian Democrats therefore welcome the bill and much of its content, but not everything. I will not be able to touch on all the points during my speaking minutes but will make a few strikes. From the Christian Democrats' point of view, we would like to stress the importance of the climate issue and underline the value of the policy being able to come together and promote results that enable our society to meet a sustainable future. The proposal's cross-sectoral ambition to integrate the climate perspective into other policy areas is correct and at a general level quite correct. In accordance with the Environmental Objectives Committee, a review of different legislations should also be carried out in relation to the emissions targets. However, in cases of conflict, other social objectives must be valued on an equal footing on the basis of their merits. Only in this way can society develop in a management that is both ecologically, economically and socially sustainable. Unfortunately, this sometimes seems to be forgotten. In several ways, the proposal expresses ambitions to change and develop criticized or condemned initiatives. Unfortunately, something that is consistent with much of the government's policy is also the absence of impact assessments. Reforms are being carried out without having been perceptive of what they really lead to. There is no evidence that they really have the desired effect on the climate, but the important thing seems to be to do something. However, the main deficiency of the bill is the absence of energy policy agreements that can guarantee CO2-neutral energy production corresponding to the strong increase in energy consumption that the bill repeatedly points to. After the shutdown of Ringhals l and 2 five times the import demand for energy during cold winter days, resulting in the promotion of fossil energy sources. Several increased investments in charging infrastructure, electrification of heavy road transport, electric roads, land currents in ports and so on, as stated in the bill, and which are important, are seriously undermined by government-led energy policies. Madam President, I would like In order to avoid climate policy becoming expensive and inhibiting measures, it must be cost-effective and generate results. Too much is at stake for misappropriations to be tolerated. Both the National Audit Office and the Institute of Economic Development have condemned the Government's climate investment investment Climate change for its very high costs per reduced CO2 equivalent. According to the bill, the climate category has reduced CO2 emissions by 1.45 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent per year. In contrast, the net uptake of forestry is 55 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent per year. In addition, agriculture also has a net uptake in relation to emissions. The bill clearly describes the emissions of agriculture but relates in very vague terms to its net uptake. The Christian Democrats were already opposed two years ago to the design of the Climate Act and are still critical. The government assured that changes would take place and thereby increased the Climate Board in the autumn budget. Future evaluations will show whether these changes can justify the potential benefits of climate change. Last year's Almedals week presented a study that pointed out that the climate benefit of the Climate Centre in one year fixes the Swedish forest in one week. Forests are an important part of the transformation, not least as carbon sinks but also for the substitution of CO2 intensive materials. Therefore, it is of the utmost importance that we use our Swedish forest to get as much climate benefit as possible. In addition, we should also invest more in carbon storage or CCS. It helps us reach the temperature target, and the experience of the technology is positive. In addition, we have the geological capacity. Then CCS must not become something that we hide behind in order not to continue with the transition. You can have several thoughts in your head at the same time. We therefore propose to Christian Democrats that a specific allocation be set up for state aid for the development of CCS technologies. Madam President, I would like The proposal contains legitimate ambitions for the establishment of a more effective and effective environmental assessment. The government therefore wants to set up an investigation into how this is to be promoted. This is welcome in view of the fact that the Riksdag announced already during the Parliamentary Session 2016/ 17 that the government would improve the permit process and develop a fast track for companies aimed at achieving significant reductions in their own emissions. Through a fast track for strategic climate-related projects, a permit process shall be shortened to a maximum of 12 months. This has not yet happened, despite previous decisions by the Swedish Parliament. Madam President, I would like Air travel, the technology that more than anyone else makes it easier for people to travel between all the countries of the world, represents a small but growing part of the climate impact. Sweden is an elongated country with great distances where domestic aviation is of great importance, although the government parties want the reality to be different. It's not. Therefore, there is reason to be inspired by Norway, which aims to have the first electric aircraft in commercial operation in two years' time and to have the entire domestic aircraft electrified in 2040. Over longer distances, biofuels, so-called biojets, are probably the most relevant. In order to quickly increase biojet production, we need more approved production routes and more raw materials to make biojets. In Sweden, we can use local raw materials, such as residues from forestry, instead of importing residues from hamburger restaurants in the United States today. The Government believes in the bill that domestic production of renewable fuels should be promoted. Despite this, the government abolished the support for environmental research on the subject that the Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates, introduced in 2018. Madam President, I would like I will end with a point that is not really connected. In the autumn's budget proposal, the Christian Democrats allocated an additional grant to support the roll-out of infrastructure for charging poles. The support should be available to companies, housing associations, private and municipal housing companies and municipalities around the country and should be able to be used for publicly available charging poles for both quick charge and normal charge. The Government's proposal today describes the modestly extensive charging of home support, which enables individuals to seek support for the installation of charging points for electric cars at home. In order to expand this support and allow more people in different forms of housing, the government wants to appoint the appropriate authority to analyse the issue and, if necessary, propose measures to create better access to charging infrastructure for different forms of housing. So far all is well and good in the bill's bread text. However, in the classification, the wording becomes sharper, that the building rules are to be complemented by new requirements for charging infrastructure. In the government's published list of points summarising the bill, one more turn is screwed when it is formulated by adding new requirements for charging infrastructure to the building regulations. The Christian Democrats do not want to impose such a requirement on housing-producing companies. A requirement of this kind bears features of the failed Pump Act where fuel stations were imposed with an ethanol pump regardless of whether or not there was a need for it. Madam President, I would like There are other points that I would have to raise, but I note that I have already oversold my speaking time. I will therefore end by saying that we must look forward, be technological optimists and find constructive solutions. We cannot shut down, ban and back into the future.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-335	Madam President, I would like It is an exciting proposal that we are debating here today. It is based on an agreement between the government, the Center Party and the Liberals. However, the report also contains motions from the general period of exercise, and for that reason I also support Liberals' reservation No 57 on the European Union. In this debate, in addition to myself, two colleagues, Joar Forsell and Helena Gellerman, will also be taking part. The climate issue is something that engages the Liberals very much. Madam President, I would like Emissions do not stop at national borders. That is why we need to find solutions together in the world and within the European Union. Knowledge and technology development contribute to climate-smart solutions that are spread worldwide. The energy industry changes when investments in fossil energy do not pay off and when the drivers for finding the alternatives are strengthened. More people on earth need access to climate-smart energy instead of health-dangerous open fire and fossil fuels. The climate needs the EU. The EU should be a guarantor of the Paris Agreement and show the way forward in climate action, and all EU countries must assume their climate responsibility. Using more fossil-free electricity, for example in cars and industry, is much better than using fossil fuels. Climate investment is needed in, for example, charging poles, cycle paths and railways, and we need more research into climate-smart technologies to reduce industrial emissions. We in the Liberals have a strong belief that many people want to play their part in climate change. But it must be easy to do the right thing. It must be easy to shop climate smart, sort garbage and take a bike, bus or train instead of the car. Environmental degradation and climate threats affect the conditions for all life on earth and do not stop at national borders. That is why we must also work together and internationally. Joint work within the EU is an important means of protecting our environment and nature. Madam President, I would like The proposal we are debating today is the first climate action plan, as many have also pointed out here. It's an important bill. It is also gratifying to see the commitment that the bill raises. This is important in order for us to reach long-term and timed emission targets. The challenge is to see climate change from an overall perspective where all policy areas contribute to Sweden's greenhouse gas emissions being reduced in line with Parliament's objectives. The environmental code and provisions supported by the beams are central to the achievement of climate targets and have significant potential for managing greenhouse gas emissions. A review of the environmental code is a priority in the review of the relevant legislation to be carried out. This applies, in particular, to those parts relating to the testing of activities that give rise to greenhouse gas emissions in Sweden. A more efficient and effective environmental test is needed to enable a faster transition to fossil freedom. Madam President, I would like This is also about town and country. A broad commitment and support is needed throughout society in order for Sweden to succeed with the goal of becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country. An inclusive climate policy takes into account the different conditions that exist in cities and rural areas as well as in different income groups. Rural areas play an important role in the transition to a more circular, bio-based and fossil-free economy. Madam President, I would like The Climate Policy Council has been mentioned several times in the debate. The Council's view is that an effective climate policy needs to be based on legitimacy, trust, fairness and acceptance. We in the Liberals welcome the fact that the Climate Policy Council's report will come back in the annual climate statement in, for example, the budget proposal for 2021. Madam President, I would like Permit processes need to be effective, and shorter processing times are important. We find it exciting and interesting with the thoughts of a green sour cream that will be introduced. As regards the integration of climate policy into different areas, this is a key element in being able to have consequences and impacts in a broad sense. Therefore, climate policy should be integrated into all relevant policy areas and should include a review of all relevant legislation in order to ensure the impact of the climate policy framework. Madam President, I would like The procurement is also central and important and is a great opportunity to drive development. According to the national procurement strategy, Sweden must be at the forefront and continue to be an example of green public procurement. Circular economy is another part that will also affect development. A national circular economy strategy is being developed and a broad review of the regulatory framework for recycling and management of waste and residues will be undertaken to promote innovation and entrepreneurship in the circular economy. Forestry, agriculture and other land use are also of great importance in the ongoing climate work. Sustainable land use is important to achieve the national climate targets. At the same time, long-term carbon sinks need to be preserved over time, biodiversity protected and ecosystem services maintained. The national forestry programme should be developed to further promote forestry and sustainable forestry. For the Liberals, production targets and environmental objectives are always in balance. We in the Liberals want to see a high level of ambition in terms of nature conservation, biodiversity and ecosystem services. We also want to speed up work on fossil-independent agriculture. We welcome the fact that a study will be set up to review measures and instruments to support the development of a more fossil-independent agriculture. As far as the construction sector is concerned, we welcome climate declarations. We note that the large emissions, about 60%, in the construction sector are taking place early in the process. Later in the life cycle, 40% of emissions occur. Climate declarations are therefore important. H is raising the question to the Christian Democrats why they do not think climate declarations are important. In the construction sector, we can make major changes that contribute to climate change, but I note that the Christian Democrats do not support the issue of legislation in this area. Madam President, I would like Arctic ice melts. Extreme weather affects all life on earth. A vital forest is destroyed, insects disappear and the oceans turn into landfills. In order to save the climate and give future generations a cleaner future, we must act now. The first climate action plan we are debating today is an important step in the right direction.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-356	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that there is such a great deal of commitment to the climate issue in Parliament. It is important that there is a majority in parliament that continues to support the climate policy framework and works to achieve the parliamentary goals. In parallel with the deep crisis created by the new Corona virus, the climate crisis is still the destiny of our time. Everyone in this House understands the seriousness of the climate issue, but it may still be worth reminding us why we are here this afternoon and why we are doing this. Reducing emissions is not just about ticking off a list on the road to an abstract climate target. We will do so because greenhouse gases actually affect people's lives. A well-functioning society needs a stable climate. Just think of the fires in Australia a few months ago! Just think of the strange snow-free winter we just left behind! Think of the violent hurricanes that have hit our planet in recent years! A warmer climate makes the reality as we know it become something completely different. Madam President, I would like It is only three years since the Parliament adopted the climate policy framework. Thanks to that decision, we now have a climate law that obliges the government to work towards achieving the climate goals. We have a call for a climate policy action plan and for a climate policy council to evaluate the policy. I am very proud of this framework, which makes us have this debate today. It has also led the government to really push forward positions. Madam President, I would like In December, the Government submitted the first climate action plan to the Riksdag. The action plan is historic, not only because it is the first of its kind, but also because for the first time the government takes a holistic approach to reducing emissions in all parts of society. This is unique in its ambition, in its scope and in that we take a new fundamental approach to the climate being included in everything we do in society. All departments have been involved in developing this product. It is therefore the product of the whole government. In addition, it is based on an agreement with the Center Party and the Liberals. This is positive, as it contributes to a holistic approach and to more people feeling ownership in order to carry out the transition. The action plan contains more than 100, more specifically over 130, measures that the government will initiate during its term of office and which span society as a whole. Some of the actions in the Action Plan have already been announced, but many of the proposals are completely new. A great deal is also where we have tightened up and clarified measures that we have announced in the past. The overall approach of the Action Plan is to integrate climate into all relevant policy areas. That is also what we propose that the Riksdag should support on Wednesday. This means a new basic grip on the climate being included in everything we do, where it is relevant. This will include, among other things, reviewing all relevant legislation so that it moves towards our climate targets and does not slow them down. We will also, in the context of a regular review of social objectives, reformulate them if necessary so that they are compatible with climate objectives. In addition, impact assessments should be carried out in all relevant areas with regard to the climate, and we are reviewing the regulations that regulate this. In addition, we will implement strong measures at cross-sectoral level, but also in key areas such as transport, industry, agriculture and forestry. I would like to mention in particular that we have decided that a milestone should be set for the climate impact of aviation. Emissions from shipping will also be reviewed. We will also review how procurement, which accounts for large parts of Sweden's economy, SEK 700 billion a year, will be able to contribute to the climate change transition. In addition, we are putting forward a large number of measures in the field of transport, including charging infrastructure, rail and renewable fuels. I could talk for a very long time about all the ambitious climate measures that the government is now working on, Madam President, but unfortunately I do not have time for that in these ten minutes. However, I would like once again to welcome the great commitment to the climate issue expressed in the parties' motions. I am particularly pleased that there is broad support for the idea of integrating climate into all relevant policy areas. It is the very foundation for us to reach the climate targets. Many of the members of Parliament highlight the lack of proposals that have been examined. In order to pursue an effective climate policy, well-informed evidence is needed. At the moment, extensive work is under way in various investigations and government assignments to develop sharp measures to reduce emissions. Among other things, the Climate Law investigation can be mentioned here. It shall review all relevant legislation. The study, which analyses a complete phase-out of fossil fuels, can also be mentioned. I would like to emphasise that we cannot begin the important work of reducing emissions to net zero by 2045 by looking at just a narrow sector or at how much emissions will be reduced during this term of office. In this first historic climate action plan, we must ensure that we start by taking stock of all relevant policy areas, ensuring that the climate targets can also be integrated and ensuring that the objectives that exist for all relevant policy areas are consistent with the climate targets. In addition, a major effort is currently being made by Swedish authorities to – to name but a few – produce:
i-fa4218358311b0aa-371	中 how we can introduce differentiated take-off and landing charges with environmental impact on aviation How we secure aid and export credits in the climate. I would also like to remind Members of all the consequential and concrete measures that the government is now developing. The reduction obligation and bonus – malus are two key measures that have been put in place to achieve the objectives of the transport sector. Climate change is estimated to contribute annual emission reductions of 11⁄2 million tonnes. This corresponds to a 3% reduction in Sweden's emissions per year. I would also like to emphasise that the Climate Policy Council itself considers that the measures contained in the climate action plan can contribute to further reducing emissions by one third. It's amazing! Madam President, I would like The Government's climate action plan contrasts strongly with the movements of Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats, which focus heavily on what these parties call the importance of effective climate policy. Nevertheless, their motions lack proposals for measures to achieve climate targets. The answer of these parties is often nuclear power. But new nuclear power does not reduce emissions within this decade. And this is where we have to change. Recently, seven of Sweden's most prominent energy researchers published a report underlining that nuclear power is not necessary to achieve a fossil-free Sweden. I hope that we can now leave that debate behind and focus on concrete efforts to reduce emissions here and now. Madam President, I would like Work to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country continues at a rapid pace. In order to further strengthen the Government's efforts to implement the Climate Action Plan, the Government has established a Climate Board within the Government Office. The Climate College consists of the Prime Minister and the closest ministers concerned. The college will follow up the Government's efforts to achieve the climate targets and coordinate and focus the implementation of the Government's climate policy action plan. In addition to the Minister for the Environment and Climate and the Prime Minister, the College consists of the Minister for Infrastructure, the Minister for Energy, the Minister for Rural Development, the Minister for Housing, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Finance. The College will have regular meetings to be chaired by the Prime Minister. Madam President, I would like Our country will be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. By taking responsibility for the climate, we also take responsibility for our welfare. As we reduce our emissions, our health improves, and along the way sustainable jobs and a sustainable economy are created. It is a perspective that is important to have with us in the situation we are in right now with the Corona crisis. It is crucial that climate change is not now given priority but rather a starting point for recovery in Sweden, in the EU and in the world. The government will focus on major investments in green transition, welfare and jobs.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-381	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for a committed speech. I share the commitment of the Government to these issues. After all, we can see that the government's climate policy does not lead to the emission reductions that would be needed. For example, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency notes that much higher emission reductions per year are needed to achieve our climate targets. It is then important to have a discussion about what action we should take. No, you cannot sit on the answer when it comes to everything, but we in the Moderates think it is important to have a serious discussion about what measures are being put forward and whether they really lead to emission reductions. The Government mentions two of the government's flagships, namely bonuses – Malus and the Climate Scene. However, these are measures that several expert authorities have criticised – not because they do not lead to any emission reductions at all, because hopefully they do, but because they are very expensive in relation to the emission reductions they achieve. It is therefore worrying now that the Climate Policy Council states that the Government does not meet the requirements of the Climate Act in terms of reporting the effects of the measures taken. I therefore have a few questions for the Government. Does the Government think it is a problem that this criticism is made by the expert authority that we have all agreed to review the government's policy? Does the Government see any problems with not living up to the climate law in these parts? Does the Government intend to come back in some part with an account of how the measures now presented are expected to lead to emission reductions?
i-EKn23TF7Qn2yzf4ncnDChE	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Rosencrantz, for the questions! In the best of worlds, we could, of course, state exactly how much emission reductions each action announced in the action plan will lead to. However, this is a very broad approach in which we go through all policy areas. As the government interprets the law, it also means that we return within the framework of the climate supplement in the budget bill, which we will hand over, and in the climate report that takes place there and in the various proposals that we will return to Parliament with. There will be proper impact and impact assessments. It is also important to remember that we have a framework in the drafting requirements of the Constitution. They do not allow us to put forward detailed proposals in products such as this – a climate action plan – which has not been prepared and which we have not investigated the consequences of. I think the criticism that this is just a bunch of investigations that are announced is a little superficial. It is only possible that, according to the Constitution, we prepare the proposals that we are going to present to Parliament. Jessica Rosencrantz also mentioned efficiency and mentioned bonuses – the Malus and the Climate Klivet as flagships. However, she did not mention reduction obligations. It is an important and central reform. There we can make a very careful assessment of how much emissions it will lead to. The government will very soon be back on it. It is interesting that the Moderates are happy to talk about efficiency, but the most effective measure, which all the authorities are talking about, is to increase the CO2 tax. The Moderates want to lower it, and it doesn't make sense. This is not an effective climate policy.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-389	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I welcome whether the government intends to come back in different parts to further describe the outcome of emission reductions. At the same time, I think it should be included in the action plan that the law says should contain precisely that. One can think about what kind of product we are discussing. I do not always say that the Left Party is right in these debates, but they have a point in saying that it starts to look more like a directional decision than a plan when you do not think you need to describe the measures you want to take through their action plan. For me, it is important that the climate policy debate leaves the fine words behind and begins to go down into concrete details on how to achieve emission reductions. I hope that the government will agree with this when it says that it will come back with more concrete follow-ups. This will be a precedent. This is the first action plan to be presented. Most parties in this House agree that this needs to be done. Then it is very important what the product now looks like as it becomes a precedent for future action plans. Many measures need to be taken. We in the Moderates haven't focused our follow-up motion on burping everyone up. Otherwise, we'd stand here and hit various measures in each other's heads. The climate minister mentions, for example, the reduction obligation, which is an extremely important part. There are many of us who are eagerly waiting for it to come into place on, for example, the side of the aircraft. So there are areas where we are fairly in agreement, but for some reason it takes a very long time. I can therefore make a contribution here at the end of the debate. There are a number of issues in which we are very much in agreement. The duty of reduction is one of those. Let us see some action on the part of the government so that we can get one in place on behalf of the aircraft.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-395	Madam President, I would like The objective of the Government and the Swedish Parliament's support is for Sweden to achieve net zero emissions by 2045. It's a very extensive piece of work. It is easy to get shortsighted in the debate and talk about short-term emission reductions when we have to talk about a fundamental paradigm shift. We must move away from dependence on fossil fuels. We must promote renewables. We need to make energy efficient. We need smart electrical systems. We must have a renewable electricity system that gives us very cheap electricity. We also need to invest in energy storage and transmission capacity. All of this is in government policy. What is not in government policy is to make it cheaper to release. Jessica Rosencrantz doesn't even mention the CO2 tax. The Moderates spend 6 to 7 billion on making fossil fuel driving cheaper, and that is not in line with achieving these goals. It is also not in line with the expert authorities and all others who have to some extent criticised the government's policy of not being exactly the most cost-effective. The most cost-effective instrument available is to make it expensive to discharge, i.e. to increase petrol and diesel taxes. The Moderates do exactly the opposite. In addition, the Moderates want to expand new nuclear power. It will not reduce emissions in this decade at all. It's about incredibly long lead times. There are very big problems with the profitability of nuclear power, otherwise there would have been large investors who wanted to invest in nuclear power. However, they do not exist. Unfortunately, the arguments of the Moderates are not connected, but I am pleased that Jessica Rosencrantz is still behind the Climate Act and that we are going to achieve its goal.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-399	Madam President, I would like It is great that the Minister and this plan announce that there will be an interim target of emission reductions for aviation. I would just like to remind you that this is something that we in the Left Party proposed back in 2016 when we were in the Environmental Objectives Committee, where the proposal for a climate law and a climate policy framework were developed. One cannot therefore quite put it forward as a new thing. There was a chance back then. In fact, the proposal could already have been included in the action plan. As I mentioned earlier, the Climate Policy Council said in its criticism that the action plan is not a plan. It does not have a concrete emission reduction plan. There is no proposal on reducing meat consumption, phasing out climate-damaging subsidies, a road wear charge – a concrete proposal on this is, as far as I know, in the Government Office – or new instructions for our authorities to remain fully within the climate policy framework. There are also no proposals for an infrastructure policy based on our climate targets. These were some concrete examples. Isabella Lövin said there are 130 concrete measures in the plan. I think it is an action plan with very good ambitions, but if you look at these 130 measures, you can see that the most is old proposals or new announced investigations.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-403	Madam President, I would like Had there been a majority in the Environmental Objectives Committee for the Left Party's proposal on intermediate targets for aviation, it could also be implemented. But it is easy to sit in opposition compared to taking responsibility for implementing politics, which we are now doing in a government position. When you are outside and in opposition, there are no limits to what you want and what you can say, but if you really want to get a majority in parliament, you have to try to get as far ahead as you can. If we had had the unforgiving attitude of the Left Party, we would have had no climate law today. Then the targets would have been far too bad. You would simply have ignored this. Now at least we have a climate law, which, when adopted, was the world's most ambitious. Then other countries, including Austria, Finland and Denmark, have adopted more ambitious targets. I welcome that. We now need to speed up in Sweden. Then I think it is good if we have both intermediate targets for aviation and targets for consumption-based emissions, which we announce in this plan. With how much will this reduce emissions? The goal is that it will reduce emissions by 100%, or by 85% to 2045. It is not the full responsibility of this government to ensure that we reach that point by 2045. But we are now laying the foundations for future governments to have prepared proposals to continue working on the basis of all relevant policy areas. We shall also have a majority in the Riksdag behind us.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-406	Madam President, I would like My question was how big the emission reductions will be with this plan. I am not getting a concrete answer from the Minister. It is not surprising because this action plan has not made this clear. This is not a real plan of action, but a will-oriented approach with very good ambitions, I would sum it up as one. We will leave that issue, unless the Minister wishes to give me a concrete figure. I think it is very good that the climate issue should be integrated into all relevant policy areas. Sometimes when the minister speaks, it sounds like someone else is in charge. Maybe it's really Annie Lööf and the Center Party that's sitting in the back seat and running the government? I'm not sure. But one thing we know very clearly that the government is in charge of is our authorities and our state companies. The government can give new government instructions to one of our 220 authorities. I am thinking, for example, of Trafikverket, which has an infrastructure policy that does not start from our climate targets – it is planning for new motorways. I am thinking of the Transport Agency, which has amended the regulation on car testing, so that we now set environmental requirements at the absolute lowest level in the European Union. We have the Armed Forces, and here I actually want to point out something good that the government has done. The instructions have been changed so that the Swedish Armed Forces will no longer oppose the establishment of wind farms at sea. This is great, but there is quite a lot more that one could urge the Swedish Armed Forces, the Swedish Procurement Authority, the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Competition Authority and other authorities to do to work towards achieving our climate goals. That is why, Madam President, I would like to ask the Minister whether the government has a plan to give new authority instructions to our authorities to act within the framework of our climate policy framework and our climate law.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-411	Madam President, I would like Yes, if Jens Holm has read the climate action plan, he has been able to see that there are very many such notifications about instructions to our authorities. One of them is that we should have more stringent requirements regarding climate management in public procurement. Another is about transport policy objectives, such as the functional and consideration objectives – the environment and climate should also weigh very heavily in transport planning. So the answer is yes. There is a great deal we can do here. Jens Holm mentioned conversion aid for petrol and diesel cars on behalf of people living in rural areas and may need help to move forward. We have already given a commission to the Konjunkturinstitutet to analyse such conversion support. We work on a lot of fronts. It can be hard to see the trees for all the forest, I was about to say. Otherwise you usually say the opposite, that you do not see the forest for all the trees. It is a very broad approach. If only one or two of these notifications had been developed, they could have been discussed in depth. But as I said, it is over 130 notifications. And it's not just will orientations. This is agreed between the government, the Centers and the Liberals, and we will proceed with those notifications. That goes without saying. As recently as today, Jens Holm has been able to read about how the Prime Minister and I are talking about the climate college that has now been set up and that we see climate change as crucial when we are now building our economy in connection with our recovery from the Corona crisis. This will not lead to companies being forced abroad – quite the contrary. Last year, emissions in Sweden's industry decreased by 5 per cent, while we had strong growth.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-415	Madam President, I would like We are debating today the climate action plan. I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Committee on Environment and Agriculture's proposal for a decision. Climate change is the destiny of our time. The UN Panel on Climate Change's report on the effects of global warming shows very far-reaching consequences at two degrees of warming. Billions of people are at risk of water shortages and floods. Harvests, fish catches and biodiversity are decreasing dramatically. Global warming is taking place at such a rate that ecosystems do not have time to adapt. Man needs a functioning ecosystem. The decisions we make are crucial for the planet and for future generations. The countries of the world have committed themselves, through the Paris Agreement, to limiting global warming to below two degrees and to making efforts to keep the increase to one and a half degrees. Already the global average temperature has increased by about one degree, and the temperature increase continues. In Sweden, the Climate Act entered into force on 1 January 2018. According to it, the government will produce a climate policy action plan every four years. The bill we are discussing now is the first plan, so it is a historic plan. In it, the Government describes how the climate policy work will be carried out during its term of office. It is about a comprehensive climate policy. The plan is based on Sweden's long-term climate goals and the ambition that Sweden will become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. It obviously spans many sectors and areas, such as industry, transport, agriculture, financial markets, forestry, renewable fuels and international climate action. When it comes to climate change, we in Sweden have continued to face major challenges, and we need to accelerate the pace of climate change. The Swedish Parliament has adopted a goal that Sweden should have no net greenhouse gas emissions by 2045 at the latest. To achieve this, major investments and technological leaps are needed. All sectors of society must contribute. But we have a good foundation for Sweden's climate policy, which is based on economic instruments that are gradually changing Sweden. We have strong investment in the whole country through the Climate Act, and we have a new, greener industrial policy with the Industrial Group. We have municipalities, organisations and companies that go ahead. With the climate action plan, we are now taking an important step. With 132 measures, the plan takes a holistic approach to reducing emissions throughout Swedish society. By integrating the climate issue into all policy areas, we will be able to change Sweden. I very much welcome the new climate college, which will have a central role in Swedish climate policy. The Prime Minister, the Climate Minister and six more ministers will ensure that the climate is part of all political decisions – not least when the economy is to restart after the coronapdemine. It shows that we take the climate crisis seriously. Madam President, I would like To achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, all countries must shoulder their responsibilities and reduce emissions. The global trend is that the transition is too slow. We need to do everything we can to speed up progress. What is needed now is a policy of action. Important for the time ahead is that rules of the game will have to be set internationally and nationally, but implementation will generally be local. For Sweden's role as a forerunner, this means that local Swedish leaders in the climate transition, such as municipalities, should share their experiences internationally. At the same time, Swedish actors have a lot to gain from international partnerships and exchanges of experience. The Paris Agreement offers an enormous opportunity to drive the development and growth of green jobs and industries. By acting as a pioneer country and taking advantage of Sweden's excellence, infrastructure and good resource base and early transition to a climate-neutral society, Sweden can be established as a global leader in the technology shifts that are now being made within existing and new industries to transform society into fossil freedom. One example is the ambition to build a resource efficient Swedish battery production. The proposal shows that Sweden will participate in several projects initiated by the European Commission. Another example is Hybrid, the Swedish investment in fossil-free steel. Madam President, I would like In politics, we have a responsibility to create the conditions for a transition in which the whole country is involved. When Sweden is to change, consideration must be given to the different conditions that exist in our cities and rural areas and for different income groups. In densely populated areas, the conditions for walking, cycling and travelling collectively instead of by car are better, while the car will continue to be important in rural areas. On the other hand, rural areas play an important role in the transition as suppliers of climate-smart energy and renewable resources. In this work, both the national electrification strategy and the upcoming bioeconomy strategy become very important. A major responsibility for the transformation has the country's municipalities with sustainable urban development, the development of smart cities, waste management and public transport. Climate change has led to important investments at local and regional level – including 30,000 charging points across the country. And with the urban environment agreements, municipalities receive support to expand public transport. Madam President, I would like Leadership is important to succeed in climate change. It may be a girl who begins alone outside the parliament but manages to awaken a whole world. Leadership is also when Sweden takes the lead and shows that a fossil-free world is not only possible but also benefits our companies and our prosperity. A city can show leadership, as when my hometown Uppsala 2018 was named the world's best climate city. Hard work, tough goals, important investments and reducing emissions were behind the price. The previous winners were Vancouver, Paris, Cape Town and Seoul. Then there was Uppsala. Even in that comparison, a small town in a small nation may be a great leader. Madam President, I would like An effective climate policy needs to be based on legitimacy, trust, fairness and acceptance. The starting point must be a fair climate transition based on solidarity between countries, between regions and between people and where no one is left behind.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-432	Madam President, I would like We have an historic debate today. This is the first time we have a coherent climate action plan for the whole of Sweden's climate policy. There is a solid background to the fact that this plan is now being put on Parliament's table. It really started with the assignment that the Environmental Target Committee was given by the government during the last term of office and that the Environmental Party was the architect behind. After all, we had presented the idea of a climate policy framework a few years before. That is why we are now getting the first climate action plan in place. It's a good lot of politics – over 130 actions. The basis for this is derived from, among other things, the work of the Environmental Objectives Committee and various types of input that we have received from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Climate Policy Council. It is, as I said, a good job. I've been working on this for over a year. It has been a challenge but a very exciting and fun challenge because it is so much politics. The approach in the climate action plan is broad. We reject the idea that the climate would in some way be a sector issue that can be hidden away. This means that all ministers, all ministries and most authorities should be responsible. Everyone should be climate ministers, quite simply. Therefore today's announcement of a climate college is very welcome. It is about institutionalising a radical and rapid pace of reform for the climate. So what's the width? Well, this extends to almost all policy areas. It is about industry, transport, procurement, agriculture, fiscal policy, forestry, all issues relating to fuel, infrastructure, vehicles, research and innovation, and about global cooperation and, in the long term, negative emissions, of course. It is, as I said, a total of over 130 points. It's a solid plan we're dealing with. The width is the obvious strength. This is also what the Climate Policy Council called for. The climate should be seen as a political issue that should permeate all issues. The strength also lies in the fact that this marks the direction of dealing with the climate issue that has dominated other parties for many years. The climate issue has almost been treated as something that the cat has dragged in. You'd rather not have so much to do with the issue. You want to hide it, and you do not want to take the strength that the climate issue deserves and demands of us. Now it changes. The climate is at the heart of politics, and no one should escape responsibility. In substance, the Climate Policy Council notes that this plan is a step forward. This means that we are moving closer to our climate targets. It can be said that there was a basis in the form of a third of the emission reductions since before, much of it thanks to the government's policy during the last term of office. This plan takes steps forward by another third. It is a big case forward, even though there is much work left. Just because the plan is so broad, of course I will not be able to go into all the details. However, there are two important lessons from the process that I would like to highlight here and which relate, among other things, to what other parties have talked about and are driving. The first lesson is that we have now come to terms with the misunderstanding or myth that has spread that an effective climate policy is always a climate policy that, in the debate, has been called cost-effective. This idea is now condemned by the Climate Policy Council. An effective climate policy should be globally scalable, involve technological leaps, be transformative, take into account the impact of distribution policies and benefit groups that are currently socio-economically vulnerable. It takes into account dynamic efficiency, which is not the same as cost-effectiveness, and it takes into account other environmental objectives. It must therefore be borne in mind that an active climate policy also leads us to achieve other environmental objectives, such as fresh air. It should also take into account that we achieve other societal goals, such as positive health effects. These are just a few aspects that can be mentioned when evaluating an effective climate policy. The Climate Policy Council also mentions a number of other factors when it talks about how to develop an effective climate policy. Let me quote directly from the Climate Policy Council's report: An emission-reducing measure that is short-term cost-effective may involve locking into a particular technology that is unable to reach all the way to fossil freedom. Then the next step towards achieving the goal may instead require very large new investments in completely different systems and, on the contrary, increase the cost of conversion. Conversely, a short-term measure can sometimes facilitate cost-effective changes in the longer term. It is therefore also important to consider the long-term results of various instruments and public interventions. ..................................................... This is exactly what it boils down to. Climate policy should be here and now and in the longer term. This means, for example, that when the Moderates try to focus on politics from the national perspective to the global one, it is to increase the cost of Swedish climate policy. That's the consequence. If we are to buy emission credits with dubious climate benefits in other countries instead of making the investments required here in Sweden, this means that we will instead have more expensive investments to make in the future. It is an increase in Swedish climate policy. It is also a violation of the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement is very clear: all regions, all countries, all sectors should be re-assigned. Then it's just as well to roll up your sleeves and do the job and not cost and delay. It doesn't make any money in the end. The second conclusion that I think we should draw is that we should say goodbye to the false climate solution of nuclear power. The right has become a bit like an old radio. The same time and the rest of us are trying to change the channel, and so it kind of jumps back to the same channel time and again: nuclear power, nuclear power, nuclear power. You may not have any other climate policy, but this is the only thing you can throw forward in order to appear credible in having any proposals in the field of climate change at all. It is simply visionless and idealess. The reason why it is not a climate measure is that it takes 15, 20 or 25 years to build a new reactor in Sweden. Just look at Olkiluoto 3 in Finland! It is a fiasco that has been expensive and delayed and is currently competing with the NKS to be the second most expensive building in the world. The Moderates know about the NKS since before. Madam President, I would like We don't have time to wait for these daydreams to come true. Climate emissions must be reduced here and now, and then renewable energy is the solution. We can see that it is also at present. Solar power is exploding and increasing exponentially in Sweden and many other markets. Wind power doubles over the next three years and covers almost one third of Sweden's total electricity production. It is an enormous and spectacular development. The same development and cost reductions are now also taking place on the battery side and for other types of energy storage. I have oversold my speaking time and will try to round off. It can only be quickly stated that when we have asked our authorities what we need to achieve the climate targets, none of them have mentioned the nuclear issue. I think that should be included in this work. The fact is that we do not actually need nuclear power. Nevertheless, it is the most important question of several parties, and I think that is rather shrewd to be a climate policy worthy of the name. Having said that, I can only say that we are on the right track. Two thirds, as I said, we're almost there. Now we need to get to the last third, and I promise that I will do my utmost to do it in the near future. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-451	Madam President, I would like What Mr Lorentz said in the speaker's chair is primarily directed right-wing, so those questions have other parties to answer. What we in the Left Party have done in this context is to raise a follow-up motion with 74 concrete proposals for further reforms that would reduce emissions in Sweden. I welcome the perspective of integrating the climate into all relevant policy areas. Perhaps we can remove the word, because say a single policy area where we should not have to take climate responsibility! But it seems that the financial sector is getting away quite easily in the action plan. I find few concrete proposals that would really reduce emissions from our financial and institutional investors. I am thinking not least of our pension money and of the AP funds. They have been given new investment directives, but even when these directives were presented, the Left Party said that this is not effective. We can see that now. Our AP funds still invest in the major fossil companies – Shell, British Petroleum, Lukoil, Chevron, Gazprom and so on. And recently we were once again reached by information that the Seventh AP Fund, that time, has investments in companies that devastate rainforests in the Amazon. I would like to ask Lorentz Tovatt why, now that you had the chance, you do not put forward proposals for other investment directives for our AP funds so that they comply with the Paris Agreement and have only sustainable investments.
i-25ffj36MZSpbEMGDFBf3Za	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the question! I share the commitment to this and also the need for us to be better and to find more policy in this area. Only the other day came some news that showed that Swedish investors, Swedish banks and also pension funds are investing in the Russian company that is responsible for the catastrophic leak that is going on right now. There is clearly an improvement potential for financial markets. However, the new directives are now in place, and this is a first step. We want to steer this, and now we have taken the first step. I believe that it will have a normative effect, combined with the fact that the EU is also implementing measures for the green taxonomy. It can certainly become more radical, but at least it goes in a certain direction. And it will have some effect on the investments made. We are also doing other things to bring about the transformation of the financial markets. I would like to highlight the green bonds in particular. They will be issued in the coming weeks, and they are by far the most radical in the world in their definition. They will be by far the most green bonds that any investor in the world can invest in, and this will happen on the Swedish market. That is a good step in the right direction.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-459	Madam President, I would like The green bonds are interesting, and they can certainly contribute to a positive flow from large investors. Now I was talking about our pensions, which are, after all, the greatest flow of money that we control. The government can give instructions to our AP funds on how the money should be placed. I really think it is high time to review those investment directives when we see that money continues to go in the wrong direction. Recently, I asked the parliamentary investigation service to find out about how much of the AP funds' investments go to renewable energy. Renewable energy is still a segment that is growing a lot. Less than 1%, I got a response. That says something. Let me say again that when there are investments in some of the world's largest fossil companies, in companies that devastate rainforests in the Amazon, in Siberia, Russia, as Mr Tovatt said just now, something needs to be done. I thought that with such an important document as the climate action plan, we could not ignore the financial markets and the AP funds, our pension money, over which we actually control ourselves. When do we get updated and more sustainable investment directives for the AP Funds? I'd like to ask Tovatt that. In fact, it is the Green Party that has that question in the Ministry of Government. Perhaps it is the party's particular responsibility to be a little credible on this issue.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-464	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the line shift, Jens Holm. I share the commitment and also the frustration about the state of things. But I don't really share the view that too little is being done. Of course, more can be done, but I think the government is still working actively. I mentioned green bonds. Now that I have a line, I can take this opportunity to mention a few more things that the government is doing. Now it has been said that green credits should be important in the reboot after the coronapndemine. This is a good way to stimulate demand in certain types of areas. Jens Holm mentioned renewable energy. It is a perfectly clean area to print up green credits for which the government takes responsibility. Something I would like to look further at, which the government has not yet announced, is to look at other ways of channeling the private flows. Jens Holm raised the proposal for a green investment bank in his speech. I think that's an interesting idea. I would like to look further at green quantitative reliefs. In the past, as part of the export strategy, the government has said that we will soon stop fully supporting fossil export credits. It is also such a step towards simply reducing demand in those parts of the financial market that cover fossil areas. Nevertheless, it is a rather intensive work that is going on within the government. I would be happy to do more in this area in the future.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-470	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that the action plan is in place and that it is such a committed debate in Parliament. The climate issue and climate change are probably, almost certainly, the greatest threat to the freedom and life of individuals that we have ever faced. Of course, for us Liberals it is quite natural to be very involved in the climate issue. If we fail to steer the ship, if we fail to stop climate change and its dramatic consequences, more people will die of starvation. More conflicts will flare up around the world because people in desperation are driven into war and violence. Countries will go underwater. To be concrete, this means in our part of the world that large parts of Mälardalen will end up underwater – if I am to be local patriotic in the speaker's chair. Madam President, I would like I'm hopeful, too. Around the world and in Sweden we see how awareness of the climate issue is increasing. We see how there is an increasing understanding of citizens, voters, because tough measures are needed. This means that politics does not have to be as fearful as it has been in the past. There are also much tougher demands on us politicians to address the concerns that exist. We must ensure that emissions are reduced, that is to say, we must roll back the emissions that have already taken place, and we must make Sweden and the world more resilient. Madam President, I would like Our mission for us politicians will be to respond to the demands and expectations of the citizens. For us Liberals, the basic principle is that each has to stand for its own emissions. What is called 'polluter pays', 'polluter pays', must, of course, be a complete leader in climate policy. But we must also understand that politics cannot do everything, not because I do not think politics should do much, but because I know that the power that exists in business and in people's own actions is often stronger than politics. We shall respond and deliver climate policy, but we must also ensure that we do not stand in the way when companies and innovators themselves are driving positive developments forward. It has been discussed earlier today from the pulpit how the capital market works and how we are to ensure that there are more green investments rather than investments in things that are bad for the climate. It is true that we Liberals have pushed for a green tax exchange with tough climate taxes and to leave more financial space for businesses and people to make green investments. The really big green investments come from the business community. We can see that awareness and commitment among people lead to market forces moving in a greener direction. We see how large institutions that work with investments around the world are changing and investing green instead of brown. We politicians must understand that technology, new innovation, the drive to change, the forces of the market, are often stronger than we politicians can deliver. There may be a need for a push along the way, and it is about that it is right for the releaseer to pay. But we politicians must ensure that regulations are simple enough and that taxes are generous enough for entrepreneurs and so on, so that such an incredibly positive development is not stopped. Madam President, I would like It is often said that we are to be a pioneer of the world. So do I. We are not quite there yet; we still have subsidies for things that are bad for the climate, and we still do not dare to tax emissions fully. But we're on our way. It's just that it's not enough. It is not enough to be a pioneer country. We must also ensure that the world becomes more green, not only by going ahead of ourselves, but also by pushing for political action in order for that to be the case. It is about using trade agreements actively to force other countries to become more green. It is also a question of ensuring that the EU gets proper muscles when it comes to climate action. We are alone in wanting a carbon tax at European level. I understand that it may be a little too unopportunistic for some parties here in Sweden to want this, because there is an Euroscepticism. However, I do not believe that it is possible to achieve our common climate targets if we do not achieve this. I do not think it is any stranger than that we have climate taxes at national level that are paid both in Stockholm and in Lerum and in the rest of the country. Similarly, you could have climate taxes at EU level paid in each country. In the end, it does not matter to the climate who collects taxes, and in the end it does not matter to the individual who pays taxes who collects them. What matters is that we reduce emissions, and what matters is that we have democratic processes. That is what we have when we decide on this, and of course we have it at European level too. Madam President, I would like It is also a matter of ensuring that Swedish innovations are disseminated where we are ahead. There is sometimes an idea in the climate debate that you should not spend so much time trading across borders or selling things because of of course there are products that we sell whose production emits, for example, carbon dioxide. But the relevant thing to look at is what the total CO2 emissions look like. It may be that we produce something here in Sweden that gives less CO2 emissions if it is bought by someone out there in the world than if this someone had bought from another country. For example, if we produce steel better in Sweden than we do in China, it might actually be good for the climate to sell our steel. This is not about patriotism or putting Sweden ahead of others. It is a question of having a realistic climate policy that protects growth and prosperity while at the same time putting pressure on other countries to also develop their climate policy. Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that this climate action plan highlights CCS, carbon capture and storage. That is something we will need, and we will need it very much. If you are to pursue climate policy that is sustainable over time, you need citizens with you. Then you need to make sure that there is a public opinion that is involved in the transition that this entails. This means that we cannot cut growth in any way or curb the economy too much, because then we will have the citizens against us. We need growth and prosperity in order to have prosperity. We need prosperity in order to have police and nurses and to be able to make important investments. Then we will also have to add a high degree of CO2 capture, because we need to ensure that total CO2 emissions are not just net zero but net minus. This will then be a crucial factor if you want a policy that is both politically and climately sustainable. Madam President, I would like With that, I would like to say once again that we support our reservation. However, it is not about the climate action plan itself, but it comes from the general exercise time. We are, of course, behind the bill on the climate action plan.
i-fa4218358311b0aa-487	Madam President, I would like I agree with the Liberals' reservation No 57, which deals with research and nuclear power in the European Union. Today we have debated the climate action plan. In this debate, the Liberals have limited themselves to four committees which are involved, but, as previous speakers have said, all committees are actually affected by the climate. It is important to emphasise that. I, for my part, will speak for the Liberals about the climate impact of transport and touch on some of the measures that we Liberals want to see to reduce that impact. Sweden's goal is to achieve net zero emissions in 2045, and transport is precisely the sector that has received a specific target: by 2030, CO2 emissions from transport will have decreased by 70 per cent compared to 2010. Madam President, I would like Liberals have as their starting point that all modes of transport are needed on the basis of their advantages. It is emissions that we should reduce, not the ability to travel or transport goods. On the other hand, increased transport efficiency can make a significant contribution to reducing emissions. However, the major reductions are caused by electrification and the transition to fossil-free fuels. We believe that those who generate emissions should pay, and we want to avoid subsidies. However, we believe that, in the event of technological leaps and with our tough timetable for 2030, it may be justifiable for a short transitional period to grant certain subsidies in order to speed up the transition. Liberals are also technology optimists and therefore want to invest in research and development so that new technologies in battery technology and hydrogen, for example, can drive the transition. One can say a little roughly that transport, agriculture and industry account for one third of Sweden's carbon dioxide emissions. Focusing on the third of the transport industry, it is found that road transport accounts for about 94% of the sector's emissions. If we are to reduce the climate impact in a short period of time, by 2030, it is clear that there is a need for measures that have a direct impact on road transport. For example, even if we double the amount of goods by rail, the need for road freight transport is reduced by only 10%. However, the transfer from road to rail and shipping, as well as longer and heavier road and rail vehicles, will lead to a significant reduction in emissions. Madam President, I would like Road transport is the sector best suited to electrification. Others, such as shipping and air travel, will for a long time be dependent on liquid fuel. It is therefore essential that the transition to electric road vehicles is rapid so that biofuels can be reserved for those modes where the need is greatest. The electrification of our passenger cars is in full swing. Forecasts say that around 2025 the price of a rechargeable car will be comparable to that of a fossil driven car. Until then, we believe that a time-limited bonus in the bonus – the Malus system is necessary. We also want to see a continued reduction in the benefit value of business cars during the same period, for the simple reason that the majority of all rechargeable cars sold today are business cars. By keeping up this sale, we create a second-hand market of cars at price levels where many more consumers can afford to buy a rechargeable car. Through this system, companies also take a greater share of the depreciation that takes place during the first three years. In order for someone to want to buy a rechargeable car, you need to feel confident that you can charge the car at the dwelling. The Liberals are therefore pushing for a rapid increase in the demand for charging points at multi-residential buildings. The number of charging poles risks in the latter part of the 20th century becoming a limiting factor for electrification of our passenger cars. Although we will see a rapid electrification, the forecast is that only about 30% of the vehicle fleet will be rechargeable by 2030. This means that the need for biofuels will still be high in 2030. Through continued reduction obligation, we create a market for increased production of biofuels. Madam President, I would like The electrification of heavy road transport, which accounts for 9% of Sweden's emissions, is largely seen in two parts. The majority of heavy transport work takes place within a radius of 300 km. Here we see the construction of a static charging infrastructure as a first step to create the conditions for the hauliers to already dare to invest in an electric truck at the next purchase. When a truck is renewed every six years, we have to start now in order to have an effect by 2030. The second step is more complex. It consists of a dynamic charging infrastructure along our busiest roads, known as electric roads. In particular, this technology will have an impact on the target of 2045 on net zero emissions. For other long-distance truck transports, biofuels will be required for the foreseeable future. A functioning charging infrastructure requires interaction between stakeholders. Therefore, the Liberals initiated the electrification commission to speed up the transition. Domestic aviation accounts for about 3 per cent of Sweden's domestic climate emissions. The flight has a challenging climate journey ahead of it. We believe in electric flights for shorter distances regionally. Electricity aviation also has the potential to create a new industry in Sweden, where, for example, Heart Aerospace in Gothenburg has attracted great international interest. However, long-distance flights will need fossil-free liquid fuels for the foreseeable future, which is why we welcome a reduction obligation for aviation fuel. Finally, we believe that carbon capture is needed to compensate for the last inaccessible emissions from aviation. Maritime transport, like aviation, has a challenge in reducing emissions. There are already electrified ferries here today. However, like aviation, liquid fossil-free fuel will be the main propellant, including in the form of electrofuels. However, maritime transport, not least barge traffic, is in itself important for reducing the amount of road transport and thus climate impact. Finally, the development of rail and public transport will be important components for improving transport efficiency and reducing emissions from both road and domestic aviation. Here, it is important to remove bottlenecks in the current system so that we can effectively access the entire string in order to significantly increase capacity. Cycling has many advantages, and the Liberals are behind the expansion of cycle paths. From a climate point of view, however, cycling has relatively little impact on the 2030 target. In cities, cycling mainly provides a relief of public transport, whereas in rural areas it can lead to a slight reduction in car use. Our hope is that when the pandemic subsides, a certain amount of work will continue to be done at a distance, which can continue to reduce emissions. In conclusion, Madam President, the most important effort at the moment is the electrification of road transport, which accounts for 94% of emissions, so that enough fossil-free fuel is available for aviation and shipping to be able to make their transition. At the same time, the conversion requires sufficient production and distribution of fossil-free electricity and fossil-free fuels. Here Sweden is a country with the best conditions. Let us together become a pioneer country!
