i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-4	Madam President, I would like The Corona virus is primarily a health crisis, but no one has escaped the fact that it has led to a very difficult and difficult economic situation. This is why the government and parliament in the spring have taken strong action to suppress the spread of infection, strengthen health care and mitigate the economic effects of the virus. These are historic measures that have been put in place, and today we are here to debate and decide on the ninth supplementary amending budget – the ninth! I know that many times, at least on the nine occasions with supplementary amending budgets, I have talked about the government's economic strategy: First of all, the spread of the disease should be pushed back. Money should not, must not and will not stand in the way of the important work of healthcare and care. Therefore, the government announced already in March that the state will take all extraordinary medical and care costs due to the Corona virus. In addition, we have contributed large amounts of resources to the relevant authorities such as the Swedish Public Health Agency and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, replaced the withdrawal and abolished the requirement for a medical certificate. Welfare in municipalities and regions has received historically large contributions to maintain important social functions such as school, health care, social services and public transport. Today we are deciding on additional measures specifically to protect those individuals who are most at risk of being particularly severely affected by the virus. Persons in certain risk groups who are at risk of serious illness in covid-19 shall be entitled to preventive sickness benefit if they are unable to adapt their work. Some family members in households should also be able to receive infectivity pay in order to contribute to greater protection for people at risk. In order to prevent certain children who have recently been seriously ill from risking infection by the virus, provision is made for temporary parental allowance. In addition, we are introducing measures that allow people who are at risk of losing their sickness benefit because they have received their care advanced due to the pandemic nevertheless to have the opportunity to retain their compensation while waiting for the health care. Since there is no vaccine against covid-19 on the market yet, Sweden may have to sign agreements with several vaccine developers to secure access, for example in the form of pre-purchase agreements. Therefore, the Swedish Public Health Agency's loan framework for emergency investments increases to SEK 2 billion. In order to ensure that there is sufficient access at national level to ambulance flights, an additional SEK 75 million is also proposed in a supplement. Madam President, I would like As has been pointed out many times before, the spread of the Corona virus has also led to an extraordinary economic situation. The government has therefore taken strong measures to mitigate the economic impact on jobs and businesses. The system of short-term lay-off allows many employees to reduce working hours, while at the same time providing the employer with state compensation for salary costs. At present, more than half a million Swedes are covered by the system, which means that jobs can be maintained and competitiveness protected in the long term. Today, we are deciding on additional measures to support particularly affected industries through additions to state-owned companies. The budget, for example, contains a powerful emergency package aimed at aviation. In order to further support SAS, it is proposed today that the Government participate in a recapitalisation of the company with a maximum amount of SEK 5 billion. SAS is important to meet society's basic need for accessibility by air, both here at home and to our surrounding world. Today's decision gives the Swedish state the opportunity and mandate to take the necessary measures to recapitalise the company. In addition, Swedavia is proposed to be added SEK 3.15 billion. Traffic at Swedavia airports, where Arlanda is the largest, has decreased sharply. Through the capital injection, the Government secures a state-owned airport network with good accessibility throughout the country. We also decide on a temporary operating aid of SEK 100 million to regional airports during 2020 to ensure necessary communications throughout Sweden. The Swedish Civil Aviation Authority is also receiving a contribution of just under 1 billion this year due to a sharp decrease in revenue from aviation. But it is not just the aviation industry that has been hit hard by the virus. The cultural sector has also suffered from declining audience revenues. In order to strengthen regional cultural activities, a temporary reinforcement of SEK 150 million is proposed in the so-called cultural cooperation model, a model in which the state, together with the country's regions, jointly finances regional cultural activities. Despite the government's great efforts, however, people have already become unemployed, and more people are at risk of losing their jobs. That is why we have already strengthened financial security and the possibility of a change for those who lose their jobs. Today we also decide on a capital injection to Lernia AB of SEK 150 million. The addition provides Lernia with the opportunity to continue its adult education and staffing activities. Lernia, like the entire sector, will play an important role in meeting the needs of skills provision, conversion, recruitment and matching in the coming years. All in all, Madam President, the direct costs of these nine amending budgets amount to nearly SEK 270 billion. In addition, large amounts of credits and guarantees have been issued. We can afford that because we have strong public finances. During the last term of office, the government invested 35 billion more in welfare. This means that 100 000 more people are now working in our common welfare. We also have 100,000 more seats in the knowledge boost, and we had the lowest public debt since 1977 before entering the crisis. The common strength we have built up can now be used for the benefit of Sweden and its citizens. We are not there yet, but one day Sweden will have made it through this crisis. Then we should also have resources left to continue investing in welfare and in jobs. We will use the strength of the Swedish economy to build a stronger society and a safer Sweden. I therefore support our proposal in reservation No l.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-17	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that if Sweden had not put all the focus on tax cuts for the richest, on reduced asset taxes and on privatising in the way it has done, society would have been much better equipped to face a pandemic like Corona. It is good that we are trying to do everything we can to stop the pandemic. There are many of us who are worried about loved ones. We want them to be protected from the corona, to get through the loneliness of isolation and to get out well on the other side. It is good that many additional amending budgets are being added to try to prevent the impact on the economy. What we should also do when we add additional amending budgets is look at the impact it has on the climate. Today, when I was on a train here, I was able to read a billboard from the Nature Conservation Association. There it is that a third of our bees are about to disappear. The pollination is affected. I don't know how many reports we've got on insect swarms that eat up crops around the world, on forest fires and on countless heat records. Yesterday we could hear in SVT how permafrost in Siberia melts and what impact it has on the climate. Greenhouse gases, methane gas, are released and are at risk of causing large increases in temperature. We could see how large amounts of diesel oil from a cistern had leaked into a nearby river just because the permafrost is melting. Whole communities and large oil tanks and industries have been built on top of the permafrost. Around our world, young climate strikes have taken place. Millions of young people are trying to get decision-makers to face up to their responsibilities. This Parliament is probably not going to do that today. The decision planned to be taken here today is a great betrayal of all young people who are on a climate strike and of all of us who are concerned about the climate crisis in which we live. To then make a decision that you must not stop the expansion of Arlanda through political decisions is, I would say, totally irresponsible. It's a tremendous betrayal. The fact that the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats end up there – parties full of climate-deniers and not exactly known to take responsibility for the climate – is not strange. But the Center Party joining that gang is more than I expected. I would like to say that today the Center Party will leave the green in its party symbol and whatever they say they stand for in relation to the green. It's a big, big betrayal. Of course, the Left Party does not support the announcement that Parliament today intends to make here through the Committee on Finance. It is an announcement that means, as I said, that you should not stop the expansion of Arlanda through political decisions. I want to be able to look the young of the day in the eye. I want to be able to leave behind an earth where even they can live well. We should not strive to drive people on the run through the decisions we make here in the Swedish Parliament. The number of climate refugees is already large, and there will be many, many more. Let us prevent it and do what we can to stop the climate crisis that is going on. The Left Party believes that the capital injection that SAS is now expected to receive should be put together with climate requirements. Since such climate requirements are not included in this supplementary amending budget, the Left Party cannot support the capital injection that is now being introduced. If climate requirements are imposed, we too can support this. For example, we believe that SAS should not fly on routes that take less than four hours to travel by train from Stockholm. We have to face up to our responsibilities. We are going to expand the railway and make sure that it is easy to get to cities near major city centres. We should not favour air traffic. Of course, flights will be needed, not least ambulances and fire planes, and the defence needs airports. Of course, we should protect them and in different ways ensure that they work. But we are not going to expand for passenger traffic any more than we have today. It's more like we're gonna tighten. We should not expand at Arlanda, and we should shut down Bromma. That is why we do not support the addition to regional airports included in this budget either. We think we can have airports, of course, if we now think we need them locally and regionally. But then you will also have to finance it yourself with the municipal or regional tax. We have ten national airports in Sweden that the state is responsible for and sends money to. That's reasonable. If you think you need an airport elsewhere, you can also finance it. We think that funds can be raised if, at the same time, we also decide locally or regionally to close the airport and to have only airports for fire, ambulance and defence. The budget we are debating today is not responsible to the climate. If they did, they would have made more demands on the climate than they would have done. In this way, this budget is a betrayal. Then, of course, there are good parts of this budget, such as the carrier's money. The Left Party was already pushing in March for its introduction. People at risk should not have to go to work and risk being infected by corona. One should be able to stay at home and have financial security and thus protect oneself. Now comes such a proposal. It's very good but very late. We are also behind the capital injection coming to Lernia. On the other hand, we think that Mrs Lernias's activities should be evaluated, not least in relation to labour market policies where there is a great deal to discuss. We also think it is good that there is money to build up emergency stocks. To do as the bourgeoisie did and sell out pharmacies and believe that the market would solve the issue of emergency stocks was not only naive but also a decision full of ideological blindings. But it was also a decision one was well aware of. A great many consultation bodies pointed out the shortcomings of the proposal, but they chose to close their eyes and just go ahead, because somehow the market would still solve this with medical emergency stocks. Madam President, I would like I call for the Left Party's reservation to be approved.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-36	Madam President, I would like The spring that we have now left behind will be written into the history books. A global pandemic has hit the world, and many people have become very sick. The economy of individuals, businesses and society has also been seriously affected, and we are still in the midst of the crisis. In the last few days we have been able to see how covid-19 had a widespread outbreak in Gällivare where the local community has been shaken. The Pandemin is not over– not in Gällivare, not in my hometown of Uppsala and not anywhere else either. Now we are facing a summer when it comes to holding on, holding out and sticking together and that all of us Swedes continue to follow the restrictions, protect the risk groups and do everything we can to prevent the spread of the disease. As politicians, we must also do what we can to save people's livelihoods and secure viable businesses. During the spring, the Government and the Riksdag have worked hard to get reform after reform in place that will respond to the needs that have existed. For Sweden, it is a strength that we have been able to do so in broad political consensus and together have been able to find constructive solutions forward. The Coronapendemy has led to a sharp decline in air traffic. This has created financial difficulties for the partly State-owned SAS. In order for SAS not to go bankrupt, a capital injection is required. The aviation rescue package must contain climate requirements. Together with the January parties, the Green Party has agreed that we should provide money but that it assumes that the company will meet new climate requirements in line with the Paris Agreement and that other owners will also contribute. The Corona crisis has brought to light and made it clear that we must also face the climate crisis. If the requirements are met and the Parliament gives its approval to the package, SAS will be able to receive an additional SEK 5 billion. The addition has not yet been decided, and let me repeat once again that the aid is conditional on strong climate requirements. Madam President, I would like This budget also provides a capital injection to Swedavia. Despite the capital injection, the company is facing a new reality. After ten years of continuous increase in air travel, the coronapandemine is a very large brake. The future will mean even greater changes. Swedavia therefore believes that there is no need for investments that increase Arlanda's capacity. The extension of a fourth runway is therefore not relevant. What effect the pandemic will have on travel patterns and the pace of development in the coming years is too early to say. But the climate crisis is equally acute. Climate change has only just begun. In fact, aviation taxes and investments on trains, along with increased awareness of the climate impact of aviation, reduced flying somewhat even before the Corona crisis. The fact that a majority of the parties in the Riksdag think they know more about the company's investments than the company itself is remarkable. Today, the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals want the Riksdag to decide on an announcement to the government. These parties say that Arlanda's continued development should not be stopped by political decisions. After all, it is now the company itself that has carried out a market-based review, on which the government is based. Many of us listened to Greta Thunberg's summer talk on radio Pl. She urgently repeats what she has said so many times: that we politicians do not have to listen to her, but we have to listen to the researchers. She said, among other things, that I understand that this is both difficult, uncomfortable and boring. And I understand very well that people like politicians or news editors choose to drive their heads in the sand and focus on other things. But you must also understand that we who actually have to live with the consequences of our entire lives cannot afford that luxury. ..................................................... She then referred to a new research report showing that rich countries, such as Sweden, have to reduce their total carbon dioxide emissions by 12 – 15 percent each year starting in 2020 to be in line with the Paris Agreement. Greta Thunberg also said that the response to covid-19 shows that the world can act quickly and forcefully in a crisis. The Green Party is a small party. But we have very strong support from our voters and sympathizers. Some say we had disproportionately great power. Finer praise can't be given to the Green Party. But we have the pressure to do much more. We can now see that the policy we have pursued to reduce the climate impact of aviation has had a positive effect. But let me add as an environmental spokesperson for the Green Party: that is not enough. In order to achieve the climate targets under the Paris Agreement, the phasing-out of fossil fuels must go much faster than it is now. It happens that companies are warning profit in bad times. Now, every company with large climate emissions should be able to change, change and adapt its operations to new lower emission levels, new supply, new markets and a new circular economy. Madam President, I would like Cultural life around Sweden has been severely affected by the Corona virus. Views, exhibitions and concerts have been cancelled. Many cultural practitioners have seen their income disappear. The Swedish parliament and government have taken several measures to save cultural life, including a crisis package of SEK 500 million and a support package of SEK 320 million to support museums and performing arts. In this amending budget, we increase the funding for regional culture by SEK 150 million. Local and regional culture forms the basis for cultural life in local and rural areas around Sweden. Unless cultural life is protected in the difficult situation we are now in, the cultural infrastructure in large parts of the country is in danger of disappearing. That is why this is a very important initiative. While dealing with the direct effects of the pandemic on the Swedish economy, we need to look forward. A green recovery after the coronapndemine is needed to meet the climate crisis. Resistance is the best vaccine against future crises. We cannot afford the climate change to slow down in an economically difficult time after the Corona. That is why we must instead change up and allow the climate change to guide any economic reform. Madam President, I would like I'd like to take this opportunity to wish you and your associates a happy summer. Although Greta Thunberg says that she does not think we should listen to her, but I would like to say to the researchers that I think it is high time Greta Thunberg was invited here to the Swedish Parliament. I also think it is high time that we politicians showed that it is with democracy and politics that we can effectively cope with climate change. To speak a language that economists understand: Business as usual does not work. What is needed is business as unusual. I would therefore like to support the Green Party's and the Social Democrats' reservations.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-56	Madam President, I would like This is extraordinary amending budget No 11, if we are to include all the additional amending budgets that have been in existence this year. The first extraordinary amending budget was initiated by the Moderates at the beginning of this year, long before the crisis was a fact. At that time, the Moderates gathered the opposition, and we provided more money for health care and care for the elderly because the government's efforts were inadequate. The crisis caused by covid-19 is far from over. The situation in Sweden is serious, and the situation in the world is serious. Our health care heroes continue to work day and night for the good of all. They work and work, and many of them will not even get much-needed rest and vacation this summer. Think about it, all of you in the country! Think of those who work and toil for those of us who have the bad luck of being hit a little worse by covid-19 and seriously ill. It's for us they work. We can help them, and ourselves, by reducing the spread of infection. It's everyone's responsibility. It's not all the same. Not everything will be the same. We must help each other, both to reduce the spread of the disease and to ensure that society keeps going. Around the world, scientists are making vaccines. It will be safe and effective and help against covid-19. The world market is in danger of rapidly vacuuming on the available vaccine when it emerges. Here Sweden risks falling behind. In a situation where vaccines come, Sweden may end up in the back of the queue, if we do not do enough. It is ultimately about Sweden securing vaccines for our citizens and ensuring that there is a model for distributing vaccines over the population, so that those with the greatest need get it first. We Moderates are proposing today that we develop a comprehensive vaccine strategy. I regret that the whole parliament or government is not behind it yet. Madam President, I would like Today, the Swedish Parliament will also decide on an infectious carrier's allowance, so that those who are in a risk group can stay home from work. I know that many of you who are in a risk group have spoken to Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, the social policy spokesperson of the Moderates, who is sitting in this Chamber today. I also know that many of you are following today's debate very closely. I would like to send a message to Desirée, Bernt, Anita, Vanja, Eva, Stig from home Umeå and many others who have heard from you. We have seen you, we have heard you and today we are happy to deliver a decision in the Swedish Parliament that means that infectious pay becomes a reality. It's about people who, for various reasons, have a compromised immune system. There may be a decrease in lung capacity. It is also people who have defeated cancer but still suffer after tough treatments and are therefore more vulnerable in covid-19. They work as teachers and taxi drivers. They have jobs that cannot be done from home, and they expose themselves every day to the risk of infection. The Moderates highlighted this already in March. We needed a solution for this group so that one could stay at home without breaking up the private economy. When the government did not listen, the Moderates took the initiative and put forward a proposal in the Social Affairs Committee. I would like to thank all the parties in the Social Committee who made today's decision possible and pressured the government before them. This happened on the Thursday, April 2. Then the committee agreed and sent this signal to the Swedish government. We're finally here. It is very gratifying that today we can give the people who are at risk an opportunity to stay at home without breaking up the economy. If you are particularly exposed, you get compensation when you stay at home. Madam President, I would like A continued expansion of Arlanda is important for jobs and growth throughout Sweden. Sweden is a small, export-dependent country on the edge of Europe that is very dependent on well-functioning air links. Sweden is a rich country and has become so through trade with other countries. The flight is today necessary to secure Swedish prosperity into the future. Arlanda is the whole of Sweden's airport and business. The Minister and spokesperson Per Bolund said last week that the government had agreed to pause the expansion of Arlanda. This was decimated by the other government party. Regardless of who is right or wrong in the government, Madam President, we can say that both parties cannot be right. This is harmful. It is harmful when a government sends conflicting signals and when you do not know what to expect. One can imagine what has happened behind fog curtains in negotiating rooms, but one does not know. Only the government itself can answer that if it wants to. Regardless of this, Swedavia announced the capital injection on the same day as the government to pause the expansion. A government minister said that this was agreed upon. Of course, only the government itself knows exactly what the truth is. When the government is unable to be clear, it is all the more gratifying that the Swedish parliament is able to do so. Now a majority in the Swedish Parliament sends a clear signal to the government, Swedavia and the Swedish people that there is no majority in the Chamber to do arts like these. There is no majority in the Swedish Parliament to harm our important airport Arlanda. Thank you to all the other parties that have participated and contributed to this decision! Now that we are talking about the environment, let me also say something about what the Green Party representative raised. I, too, think it's important. The flight will of course contribute to the green transition. This can be done thanks to Swedish engineering. For each year, emissions per passenger kilometre are reduced. That's good. It reduces emissions. It is Swedish know-how and technology in many of the innovations, inventions and other things that make aviation better and greener. Of course, aviation should also contribute to a green transition. However, Sweden as an export-dependent country depends on operating air traffic throughout the country. Madam President, I would like I'm sorry I'm going to be a little boring for a while. I will read some of the things that the Moderates have pushed through during the spring. On March 18, the Moderates presented proposals for a business case with government interest-rate guarantees. On 25 March, the government adapted itself. On 23 March, the Moderates presented a proposal on state aid for the rental costs of companies. On 25 March, the government adapted to this. On 23 March, the Moderates presented a proposal for the abolition of employers' contributions. On March 25, the government agreed to lower them. On 23 March, the Moderates presented a proposal to reduce interest on tax credits. On 14 April, the government agreed to at least halve them. On April 7, the Moderates presented a proposal for full-time lay-off. On 14 April, the government adapted to this. On 7 April, the Moderates presented a proposal for sales support to save jobs and businesses. On April 30, the government agreed. Last week we were able to decide on this in this House. On 26 May, the Moderates presented a proposal of SEK 100 million in state aid to regional airports. On 14 June, the government adapted to this. Today, Parliament will decide on the necessary support that will enable airports around Sweden to survive. Madam President, I would like Sweden entered this crisis with the lowest per capita growth throughout the European Union. Since Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister in 2014, 27 of the EU's 28 member states have reduced unemployment. It is only in Sweden that unemployment has increased in these years. After the crisis, Sweden had to solve the problems we had before the crisis. However, we must also solve the problems that have arisen in connection with the crisis. Without many of the crisis support that we have decided on in the Swedish parliament, much more jobs would have been lost. Madam President, I would like We Moderates will continue to work constructively to come up with proposals and do everything we can to ensure that Sweden gets through this crisis in the best possible way. We have come up with proposals to reduce the spread of infection. We are now proposing a vaccine strategy. We have produced proposals and pushed for more money for healthcare and care. We have developed proposals to save Swedish jobs and companies. We are still in the midst of the crisis, and much work remains to be done. I wanted to be happy last summer in the debate last week and do so also in this debate to the Madam President, all those who work here in the Swedish Parliament and all the parliamentary committees who have been involved and contributed to the fact that we have got a lot of this in place. But let me be clear that we will probably wish each other happy summer and pleasant autumn a few more times.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-78	Madam President, I would like I'm a little curious about what the Moderates are building their assumptions n about why Arlanda has to be expanded. If you look at Arlanda's environmental permit you can see that there are permits for 350 000 lifts and landings per year. In 2018, 244,000 were made. There are far fewer take-offs and landings than in 2000. The number of flights is thus decreasing. They fell by 2 per cent last year. Domestic flights have fallen by 8%. It is even the case that if Bromma's air traffic were transferred to Arlanda, it would be able to cope with the current capacity. Madam President, I would like In a statement, the World Wildlife Fund says that if you as a politician are to take a stand for the expansion of Arlanda Airport, you should be honest with why you do it – i.e. that you want air traffic to increase significantly. ..................................................... Arlanda Airport can have 90 take-offs and landings per hour. Between 2016 and 2019 it has been up to 73 at most. Why, then, should you take a stand because you cannot politically stop the expansion of Arlanda Airport? We must all take responsibility for the climate. We cannot increase emissions. What do you base your position on, Edward Riedl?
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-81	Madam President, I would like Let me first say that we probably have the same ambition as the Left Party when it comes to changing the whole of society, including aviation. We have listened to Swedavia's assessment and what was then decided on in the Arlanda Council. It is based on a lot of things that need to be done at Arlanda to cope with the increased capacity that others estimate will happen. Neither I nor the Moderates have done their own investigation, but we have listened to those we have to listen to as regards the development of air traffic. It can be seen worldwide that air traffic and air transport are growing rapidly. In fact, just as I described, aviation is becoming greener. For each year, emissions per passenger kilometre are reduced. The global challenge is to increase the number of passenger kilometres in aviation while reducing emissions per passenger kilometre. This means that Swedish engineering must continue to contribute to a green transition, not only in Sweden but throughout the world. You can certainly land differently. But our assessment is that Sweden continues to need good air connections within the country. We know that the Left Party wants to dismantle domestic aviation. We do not believe that the Moderates and some other parties in the Swedish Parliament are possible if you want growth and prosperity in Sweden. In addition, we need to be in good contact with other countries around the world. However, we have not made any own calculations or models for this, but we have listened to those to which we have to listen. In this case, it is about what Swedavia and the Arlanda Council have developed. Among other things, there's a new runway you're talking about. You need better flows inside Arlanda. All of you in Sweden who travel by air know what Arlanda looks like on a regular commuter's day. Much more needs to be done inside Arlanda. The assessment is that it will take about 75 billion in the coming years to make Arlanda the airport and the hub most of us want it to be.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-88	Madam President, I would like I think it is good to stick to the truth in the Parliament's pulpit. The Left Party has not claimed to want to phase out domestic aviation. That statement will have to be made by Edward Riedl. I think he should take it back. However, we believe that unnecessary flights should not be carried out. If you can take the train and travel time is less than four hours, why take the flight? We all have a responsibility, each and every one of us, to transport us in an environmentally friendly way if possible. It is one thing to fly from Pajala here to Stockholm, another to get here from Karlstad or Sundsvall. You can do that easily by train, and even easier if we bet on the train. But now it is true that Arlanda has an environmental permit for far more landings and starts than you use. In her report, Swedavia estimates that aircraft will continue to increase, despite the fact that flights are falling and have decreased. Arlanda does not use its capacity and has not done so. You can even transfer your flight from Bromma to Arlanda without expansion. Why, then, should we expand aircraft and stimulate increased flying? We need to take responsibility for the climate. Surely it cannot be reasonable for us here to make decisions that go in the opposite direction when we see what is happening around our world. I don't know if Edward Riedl closed his eyes yesterday when News was broadcast or if he didn't look at it because it was nice weather. But we can clearly see the consequences of how we live. People have the consequences in their everyday lives, in their water and in their crops. We get them in our forests and around in our surroundings. We are all affected, and the poorest are most affected. We have a responsibility to take, Edward Riedl.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-92	Madam President, I would like Ulla Andersson is absolutely right that I was wrong. I apologize. The Left Party does not want to phase out all domestic flights in Sweden, but most of it. Thank you for that clarification. Of course it should be right in the speaker's chair. We Moderates find it problematic that they want to phase out most of the domestic aircraft, because Sweden is dependent on it. Swedish industry depends on it. Swedish jobs depend on air traffic operating within the country and to other countries. The development that is taking place in the world is that air traffic is increasing very rapidly. This is probably what Swedavia is counting on. I'm not an expert on this. Maybe Ulla Andersson is – it will have to stand for her in that case. But I guess Swedavia looks at the evolution of the world and pulls out the lines in the future. This presents us with two things. The first is to expand the capacity at Arlanda, so that Sweden can manage to become the hub. It is good for the environment, because the alternative is that Swedish travellers who are going to travel the world must get to our neighbouring airports in Helsinki, Oslo or down in Copenhagen. Some people already do this for other reasons, but we need to have a working Arlanda. That's one of the reasons. The second thing we face is to ensure that environmental and climate change takes place in a good way in the world. This happens whatever Sweden does – air traffic is growing very rapidly in the world, especially in Southeast Asia and the Middle East. There we have the great growth in air traffic. My point, Madam President, is that Sweden contributes – Swedish companies, Swedish engineers and Swedish engineering contribute to better aviation fuels and better aircraft engines that are better adapted to the future and to the environment and climate. That's good; there should Sweden be. We're not going to phase out the flight. We're going to make the flight greener.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-96	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are generally in favour of the government's ninth supplementary amending budget, which relates to compensation for risk groups, capital interventions in state-owned companies and other measures relating to the Corona virus. In the bill there is targeted support for SAS and Swedavia, but also support for non-state airports. It is precisely the latter that is particularly gratifying to see, because the Swedish Democrats in the spring, through proposals for committee initiatives in both the Transport Committee and the Finance Committee, have asked for support for non-governmental airports. Sweden is on the surface one of Europe's largest countries, with a length of 1 572 km. From Smygehuk, Sweden's southernmost tip, you can easily get past Rome at the same distance. It places other demands on communications compared to many of our European surface smaller countries. If it is to be possible to live in the whole of Sweden under something so when equal conditions we need access to well-developed flights all over the country. We need it in order to maintain socially necessary transport in the form of fire, ambulance, police and defence aircraft. We are also dependent on flights for private travel and to meet the needs of the business community. The fact that there are airports spread across the country is therefore important for Sweden's growth, for our safety and for our well-being. Madam President, I would like The restrictions on international and international travel imposed by the covid-19 pandemic have hit the aviation industry particularly hard. While the restrictions have been necessary to reduce the spread of infection, they have significantly reduced air traffic, with significant economic consequences for both airlines and airports. The Swedish democrats are in favour of the state now proposing financial support to SAS and Swedavia, as well as to the aid to non-state airports I mentioned earlier. The Swedish aviation industry needs conditions to survive and develop in the long term, which is made more difficult by the government's unclear stance and the reverse of the future flight. If we are to have flights as a means of transport throughout Sweden, the aviation industry must be able to compete on market terms and be able to plan its future capacity needs without shaky political moves. Swedavia's activities in connection with the introduction of the travel restrictions have in principle ceased, while the airports owned and operated by the group will be important when the restrictions ease. Just like SAS, Swedavia needs to be able to carry out its investments without the involvement of politicians. Pausing the projects at Arlanda Airport that intend to add new capacity through a new pier and improved baggage handling is not something the Swedish Democrats see as strategically good when we need to modernise and develop Arlanda. The Swedish Democrats would like to remind you once again that Stockholm Arlanda Airport's future development will be ensured without political hooks. The airport's development is needed for Sweden's competitiveness to remain stable, while Arlanda is important for jobs and growth throughout the country. It is therefore gratifying that the Swedish Democrats have heard in the Committee on the request for Arlanda Airport in our reservation. Madam President, I would like With Midsummer behind us and hopefully a couple of lovely Swedish summer months ahead of us unfortunately lurking very dark clouds on the horizon. Most of it looks insecure. We have the greatest economic crisis in modern times. Unemployment is increasing without control, despite efforts to the contrary. Last night, new disappointing figures came on the rise in youth unemployment. The EU has resumed negotiations for both the long-term budget and next year's budget. In addition to this, a historic upheaval is taking place with huge aid packages to EU countries with poor economies. For Sweden this seems to be very costly. We still don't know if Corona will strike another wave that might be even stronger. Some students warn of a new wave this fall. Some say Corona's here for ten years. Others say we're through the worst. All we know is that Sweden will need to equip for the coming times where even a recession will be a big challenge. The fact that our companies are able to overcome the crisis and thus offer jobs is central to the recovery. The Swedish democrats have constantly called for greater support for companies. Last week, the Riksdag decided to approve the government's restructuring aid to companies that saw a large decrease in turnover. But the aid will only apply for the months of March and April. We have repeatedly pointed out that the crisis is not nearly over and that aid should in any case be extended over the summer. We have pointed out that the aid for March and April alone is completely wrong for some companies. This applies in particular to companies that are seasonal and whose peak season falls after April. One example of affected companies is the amusement parks which yesterday received news from the government. They must not open at all this summer. In any case, with that message from the government, I expect that we will soon see another supplementary amending budget with some sort of conversion aid for companies that have not recovered after April. Another support the Swedish Democrats want to see extended is the temporary reduction in the employer's contribution. Only last week, we tabled a proposal in the Committee on Finance for a committee initiative to extend the temporary reduction in employers' contributions and allow it to run for another two months, that is to say until 31 August. Unfortunately, none of the other parties shared our view of the need. Madam President, I would like This is probably not going to be a normal summer for us MPs. I guess there's a lot of people with me planning to work on, more or less as usual. However, I would like to take this opportunity to wish the third Vice-President and his colleagues a really nice summer. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish my colleagues in the Committee on Finance a nice summer, with more or less work. Above all, I would like to thank the staff of the Committee on Finance who, despite a huge workload during this spring, supported us Members with the same positive attitude and skilful ways as ever.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-112	Madam President, I would like We are now at the end of a completely unique parliamentary term from most perspectives. I would like to start by expressing my thanks and that of the Center Party to all those who have fought hard and urgently to deal with the current pandemic and its harmful effects. I understand what sacrifices it has taken and what it has meant in the form of grief for many. Everyone should know that the work has been going on day and night to ensure that we can do everything we can to counteract the consequences of the pandemic that has taken life, damaged the health of many and at the same time put the Swedish business community under severe pressure. We are now debating the ninth supplementary amending budget. Today, we are taking important steps for the government's corporate portfolio while maintaining socially important infrastructure. We also strengthen the conditions for jobs and companies throughout the country. As a result of keeping the spread of infection in the community down, regional airports have been hit hard when we have significantly reduced air traffic. Sweden is a sparsely populated country with long distances, where aviation plays an important role in travel and transport. Regional airports have an enormous impact on the speed and efficiency of transport that is critical to society. If accessibility to different regions deteriorates, it will have negative consequences for the conditions to operate socially important air transport such as ambulance flights. Accessibility plays a major role for jobs and companies in different parts of Sweden, but also for civil and military preparedness. With the budget we are dealing with today, support for regional airports will double in 2020. At the same time, SEK 900 million goes to the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration in order to be able to maintain important social tasks. The airline SAS expects that the crisis will affect the company well into 2022. It needs support to survive the Corona crisis. Several governments across Europe have recently gone in financially to save airlines. Today, the Swedish State is the largest owner in SAS and as owner will take responsibility for keeping the company alive, together with Denmark and Norway. The budget we are dealing with today therefore includes up to 5 billion in financial support as part of a recapitalisation plan. After the crisis, it is crucial that SAS becomes a long-term viable and sustainable company, because it is actually about taxpayers' money. Madam President, I would like The training and staffing sector will play an important role in the coming years in meeting the needs of skills provision, conversion, recruitment and matching. Rarely have both the labour market and working life changed in such a comprehensive way and for as short a time as now. Each sector has basic skills needs. Companies that are in the position of having to reduce the number of employees can use the time to build on their skills so that they are stronger when we get out on the other side of the crisis. With the proposed capital increase in the budget we are considering today, we take responsibility for the fact that the state company Lernia may have commercial conditions to continue operating while the company can actively contribute to the transformation of the Public Employment Service. Madam President, I would like It is clear to the Center Party that we cannot rule out any measures to save Swedish companies and jobs. But knowing what action is to be taken when is not an easy task. Is it the case that the image of early positive signs that we see in the economy will be strengthened? Can we move on to the next stage in the fight against the disease and invest in more forward-looking measures, in bringing forward investment and in stimulating private investment in business? We must have both thoughts in our heads at the same time. With this amending budget, we are taking further steps to ensure a viable government portfolio, a robust Swedish aviation infrastructure and good conditions for business throughout the country when we get out of the crisis. With those words I would also like to wish everyone a really nice summer!
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-124	Madam President, I would like The Center Party would like to call itself the Green Party. As a vorner for climate and environment, I am very pleased that there are bourgeois parties that claim to want to be green. But how can a Green Party support the Committee on Finance's proposal for an announcement – which you intend to do today, and which Parliament will decide later on – on the extension of the airport? I have earlier today told Edward Riedl from the Moderates that an extension is not needed and that there is capacity left at Arlanda even if the flight at Bromma airport would move there and it closed again. I would like to know why the Center Party wants to increase emissions at a time when we need to do everything we can to reduce emissions.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-128	Madam President, I would like Ulla Andersson of the Left Party raises an important point when she asks me why I want emissions to increase. Of course I don't. There is a difference between emissions and transport. The principle should be that we are in pursuit of emissions and not of transport itself. There are two ways of looking at how we solve environmental problems: development or decommissioning. It is clear that there is a difference between the Center Party and the Left Party in how you look at that question. There is a great deal that can be done to improve the environmental performance of aviation. We have proposed compulsory incorporation of biofuels. The electric flight seems to be developing by leaps and bounds. We have also got into government cooperation a project on minus emissions that can be extremely valuable. Something else that may not be so sexy to talk about but which can be extremely important is a single European sky in which we simplify and shorten the routes within Europe in the air. It can mean a lot. I do not know whether the Left Party still wants to leave the EU. However, international cooperation is extremely important in order to achieve such things. Madam President, I would like If you're going to be able to live all over our elongated land, which is sparsely populated, we need to be able to fly. Industry must be able to develop and generate growth. The Left Party seems to ignore the fact that the cake must be created before it can be distributed, and it is precisely in a free and developing industry that cookies are created. We need to keep both of these thoughts in the air at the same time.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-135	Madam President, I would like In Gävle we had an airport. It took 20 years to get it cut off. The argument was that Sandvik would not make it without the airport. They had 17 mil to Arlanda. Sandvik remains and develops well. There are both options and opportunities to still fly even if you do not expand Arlanda. The examples that Johan Hedin takes up with the involvement of more so-called biofuels in aviation fuel will have no effect before we even need to change. We need to reset now, not in the 20's and 30's. I will read again what the World Wildlife Fund says when they present their report on the future of aviation here in Sweden: If you as a politician are going to take a stand for the expansion of Arlanda Airport, you should be honest with why you do so, i.e. that you want air traffic to increase significantly. That is also what the Center Party is describing. Even if more so-called environmentally friendly ways of flying were to be found, emissions would increase. And why build an airport that does not even now reach the capacity for which it is licensed, but far from it? Then why expand it? Explain it to me! Why build an airport that does not even reach its capacity today? Air traffic has even decreased there; there is less air traffic at Arlanda now than it was 20 years ago, when you had two runways. Explain it to me, for so far you have not succeeded, Johan Hedin! Why should the Center go from green to an emission batch?
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-140	Madam President, I would like I would like to make one point clear to Ulla Andersson from the Left: politics should not interfere unnecessarily. I believe that the main reason why we want to put our foot down on this issue is that there have been such conflicting tasks from the various representatives of the government. When you ask one, that person says that we have basically closed the airport. If you ask another, it says: No, no – we will develop and make sure that we can fly throughout the country. There is a need to clarify the long-term conditions, not least for the business community, so that they know what applies and so that they can make the investments needed to get growth back on track in Sweden when we get out of the crisis on the other side. That is why I think it is important for Parliament to take responsibility and put its foot down on this issue. Then, Madam President, I cannot fail to see this in a broader perspective. It is an ideological perspective with development or decommissioning. History shows quite brutally what the free economy means for welfare development, prosperity development and growth. If you do not believe in it, it is clear that you want to dismantle, but history shows that all the economies that have tried a different system than the free economy not only fail capital in building prosperity, but this also usually leads to quite serious environmental disasters. If you look up and see this perspective, I think Ulla Andersson and the Left Party have a homework to do.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-144	Madam President, I would like In March, Parliament changed its position. The reason was the pandemic. There was reason to do what we can to just not be too close. We would allow physical distance. It was self-evident for the Riksdag to take these measures. At the same time, there are huge numbers of people in Sweden who say that they are forced to take much greater measures because they live with a disease and a health condition that makes them belong to what one might call a risk group. They were forced on their own to take measures that none of us need to take if we do not belong to a risk group. It is people who have recently been transplanted, who have undergone a severe disease, who have impaired lung function or whatever it may be. These are people who can't always work from home. It rarely works for those who are in commerce, for those who are pre-school teachers or for those who are teachers. They are forced to take other measures. I have read many stories from people who have taken out vacations and complacently. They have done what they can to stay away and reduce the risk of covid-19. It is obvious whether you belong to a risk group or are related to someone in a risk group that you do what you can to avoid the disease. This is what individuals have done. But the public has a responsibility to do what we can to prevent the whole of society from getting infected and not getting sick. The strategy includes keeping risk groups away from covid-19. It has been a clear strategy that is, of course, right and proper. But when it comes to the risk groups, it cannot be said that the government has been fast. This may be the eleventh or ninth amending budget, but in the case of risk groups it is the first time – and finally – that we have a proposal on the table. It is about people who are seriously vulnerable and belong to a risk group. The National Board of Health and Welfare has defined the risk groups. But it is also a matter of being related to someone who is at risk. Special caution is needed. It is also about those who are pregnant. Of course, being pregnant is not an illness. But you can belong to a risk group yourself, and above all it is important to ensure that the person who is pregnant and is about to give birth does not bring the infection into the maternity ward. It is therefore important to be able to ensure some kind of quarantine time before giving birth so that you do not bring the infection in. Then we must have a social security system that makes this possible. The Moderates left the proposal in March. Eventually it became a committee initiative, and during this period the government said it was working on something like that. Nevertheless, it felt pretty good, because this was something that all parties seemed to agree that we need precisely because we have decided that risk groups should be protected. Then time passed, and the committee initiative landed in the Social Affairs Committee. On April 16, we were ready to make decisions, and we agreed. We managed to find a common understanding in which groups it is about and what is reasonable to find protection for. We decided that there should be a substitute for extra vulnerable groups and that their relatives could also be included in this. It's also about pregnant women. On 16 April, a united House decided that the government would deliver. And so it is only today that we have a budgetary space that gives us the opportunity for some of this! It has certainly not been a fast process. Sometimes I've wondered if all government officials are in the Ministry of Finance and no one in the Department of Social Affairs. We would have needed more there in order to bring about the important changes that this case is about. Today, a budget decision is taken to provide some EUR 6 billion in compensation to vulnerable groups. But it's really just some we're pretty sure what it's supposed to look like. In the case of relatives and pregnant women, it is very unclear what protection they will receive. There is a small amount of money in the budget decision that lies ahead of us in relation to relatives. What concerns pregnant women is not visible in the proposals. The government is expected to make decisions by this week as everything will enter into force on 1 July. It is clear that, as a Christian Democrat, I am keen for the risk groups to be given the protection they need. I am pleased that we were able to reach agreement in committee. Thanks to all comrades there, who are always constructive and find good solutions! But it'll take way too long before we get there. If you have a strategy for the country to reduce the risk to the groups at risk and make it possible for them to avoid the infection, you do not allow the slowness of the proposals to be developed. Then you go ahead and make sure they get there. That is why, with some sadness, I am standing here today and, as such, I am happy for 6 billion in compensation for extra vulnerable groups. That's a big sum. But it's pretty late. I hope that the government will follow through on Parliament's decisions so that family members can stay at home if they cannot arrange their work that way. This also applies to pregnant women who need to be able to escape the infection at the end of the day or who have a job that involves many close contacts and may therefore need to be at home instead of being exposed to risks. The government needs to ensure that you live up to the strategy you have chosen, that is, to protect risk groups. Today we are taking a small step in the budget decision, but there are a few steps left before I feel that Parliament's decisions have been approved. The government's proposal for a budget decision is good, but close relatives and pregnant women remain. They need to know what to do so that they can ensure that they can also be protected from the infection.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Spring has been marked by the health crisis and the economic crisis we are currently experiencing. Today, Parliament is discussing what is currently the latest supplementary amending budget. It is a typical one because it contains measures that involve both taking responsibility for the health crisis and taking responsibility for the economic crisis. We are today deciding on targeted initiatives for risk groups that need better financial compensation to be at home – you are forced to be at home because of the Corona crisis and the general spread of infection in Swedish society. We also invest in state-owned companies, and we contribute money to SAS, Swedavia, the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration and Lernia, as well as to investments in regional airports. Madam President, I would like For the Liberals, it has been important in the spring to ensure that we manage the health crisis in the best way and to reduce the economic consequences of the Corona crisis. That is why we have pushed for lower social security contributions, for companies to benefit from turnover support and for a lay-off system to hold back unemployment in an economic crisis. It's been important. We have also taken responsibility for ensuring that the groups now severely affected by the Corona crisis, which are forced to go home from work because they are ill, are not financially affected by this. We are taking further steps today with targeted efforts and investments in risk groups. It is important for people to feel secure and for people not to get hurt because of the Corona crisis. Madam President, I would like During this spring, Swedish politics has emerged from its very best side. It has been a time when we have gathered together to solve Sweden's problems together, and it has been a time when we have reduced the political conflicts and the political squabble and instead tried to solve the problems that exist together. It is important, and it is good that Swedish politics has been able to show off from its very best side. The Committee on Finance has sometimes corrected and improved government proposals, and sometimes the committee has jointly improved proposals. Madam President, I would like Today, we want to make it clear from the Liberals that Arlanda is an important part of Swedish business. Arlanda is an important part of the future transport system. The uncertainty that has existed since various government parties in the media have given different information about Arlanda, or whether it is a political decision not to expand Arlanda, is bad for especially those parts of Sweden that have far to the capital. Sweden is an elongated country. It is a long way to get from Lund in the south to Luleå in the north. Sweden depends on export companies being able to export, and many of the large companies operate worldwide. It is therefore, of course, important that there is a well-functioning international airport. In this context, Arlanda is important. Madam President, I would like I would like to wish Madam President and the rest of the podium a happy and pleasant summer. I support the committee's proposal. ( THIRD VICE TALMANN: Thank you for your greetings! )
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-172	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that a majority of the parties in the Committee on Finance share the view of the Swedish Democrats that the Commission's proposal to amend the EU's own resources system is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. The Corona crisis has had a negative impact on the whole of Europe, and there is, of course, a need for supportive action in the future. Unfortunately, the crisis for many countries has become particularly great because they were already involved in mismanaged public finances before the Corona virus. When Sweden voted on membership of the European Union in the autumn of 1994, it was with some uncertainty that I went against the party I had voted for since I was given the right to vote. I voted against. Of course, there were, and indeed there are, many advantages to Europe. Free trade and the opportunity to work throughout the EU were advantages that attracted the referendum. What made me hesitate about Europe was the fundamental issue of democracy. With the EU, a lot of power is transferred to a level that we Swedes really find difficult to influence. That Swedish tax money should finance projects that Swedes do not have the opportunity to influence where, and is, an indigestible fact. As early as 1997, Member States agreed that public debt should not exceed 60% of GDP. That border was agreed as part of the creation of a strong single currency – the euro. Member States outside the euro area are also committed to having no higher public debt than 60%. Sweden has been across that border once – 1999. The euro countries currently have an average national debt of more than 84%, where Greece unthreatingly tops the league with a debt of almost 180% of GDP. And this is not something temporary. Italy, Greece and Belgium have never been close to remaining around 60%. In 2003, we voted on the introduction of the euro. The result was a clear no. The Swedish people like parts of the EU, but more and more people realized that it comes with a high price. Sweden was already at a disadvantage before Brexit against dragons like Germany and France. The government is fighting hard together with Denmark, the Netherlands and Austria to hold down the MFF, that is, the EU's long-term budget for the years 2021 to 2027, at a manageable level. Other countries call us cheap. Talk about biting the hand that feeds you! Sweden has always paid more in fee than we get back. This will be even more felt when the UK levy disappears. Sweden is a generous country; everything else is slander. The next few weeks will determine the future of Europe. Are euro area countries with poorly managed economies to receive huge subsidies or are they to be satisfied with favourable loans? The Swedish Democrats believe that the support programmes are a matter for the euro area countries. Otherwise, the proposals need to be completely revised because they do not focus today on aid to countries hit hard by the coronapandemine – for example, Sweden, which has been hit very hard. Rather, it is a way for the EU to expand its ordinary budget and should be given, in particular, to euro-area countries with poorly managed public finances. We are constantly receiving signals about the urgency of putting the aid packages into the European Union. The fact that we want to decide on astronomically large amounts is, for me, a signal that the European Union wants to tie us up before we know what has happened. There is a great risk that these very rapid negotiations will lead to decisions that will eventually weaken cohesion in the European Union. There is much talk of the EU getting out of the crisis and re-launching its economy. There is talk of the importance of learning from the crisis. Unfortunately, I have heard nothing about the importance of Member States respecting financial agreements, such as the 60% ceiling on public debt. If the euro countries do not deal with their finances, the euro is in danger of losing its momentum altogether. It is not up to Sweden to save the euro, as we currently appear to be forced to do. Finally, I would like to comment on a common position: that Sweden benefits so much from exports to the EU's internal market that it justifies the fact that Sweden has to pay a large part of the EU's fees. The EU's internal market is important. But Sweden is also a country that imports a lot from other Member States. We are an important trading partner for many countries within the EU. During the midsummer weekend I amused myself by looking at which countries we export to in relation to which countries we import from. Norway is our most important exporting country – and not part of the EU. We export almost 160 billion to Germany, but at the same time import almost 270 billion from Germany. The United States and the United Kingdom are other very important markets where we export more than we import. Nor are those countries in the EU. Madam President, I would like Sweden's export companies, and ultimately the Swedish economy, depend on good free trade agreements whether it is with the EU Member States or with other countries. At the moment, negotiations are under way between the UK and the EU. I hope that the EU takes this opportunity to establish good relations with an important neighbour in Europe and to ensure that we get generous trade agreements. We all benefit from this, especially in Sweden.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-190	Madam President, I would like We had a referendum in 2003. The Swedish people then said no to join the monetary union. I think there are many who have enjoyed it afterwards. Who would have liked to be part of monetary union, for example, during the financial crisis? Therefore, it is not reasonable that we should now, through the back door, be subject to a common fiscal policy. That is why it is not reasonable, what is happening now, and the subject we are now examining in terms of subsidiarity. It is therefore a good thing that the committee objects to the question of subsidiarity and that the government's position is so clear. Sweden shall not allow the EU to take out loans to finance an ongoing budget or to provide grants to others. I do not believe that this would be the most effective way to get Europe out of this crisis. I have seen how Europe has saved banks and left people behind. There are many of us who have done so. The Left Party believes that the proposal that is before Parliament and that we are now dealing with in the Committee on Finance is not reasonable. We have tried to influence the government's position on the substance, and we will follow what is happening with great interest. The government is very critical of providing subsidies to countries by taking out loans. It is also critical of lending. We will see what the negotiations eventually land in and what becomes the final position of the Left Party. However, I appreciate the opposition that Parliament is now making to the issue of subsidiarity. We're going to help other countries. We can do this by granting loans to other countries on favourable terms and through exchanges between states. With this, I would like to support the proposal. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish Mrs President-in-Office, the members of the Committee on Finance and, above all, the Finance Committee's office a pleasant summer.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-197	Madam President, I would like Europe is in a serious situation. We have not seen the end of the pandemic, and the economic consequences of the shutdown have been very extensive and serious. In order to get the economic wheels to spin again, we need to make joint efforts in Europe. Since Sweden is an export-dependent country and the EU is our absolute largest and most important market, it is of course very important also for Sweden that the EU gets up to speed. We Social Democrats want strong and effective European cooperation. We believe in joint efforts to solve common problems. We do not think that the proposal put on the table by the Commission is the best way forward in all parts, but it is a positive view of Europe that is the basis for our position. Firstly, improving the functioning and functioning of the internal market is crucial. There, during the crisis, we have seen that there is much more to be desired, and without it, no economic stimulus packages in the world will help. Secondly, there are problems with the recovery package presented by the Commission. There, we need major changes in both size and direction to be satisfied. In essence, to do more of the same things as before the crisis, to distribute resources mainly in the same way as before the crisis, and not to severely limit the extraordinary efforts in time – that is to say, during the crisis – are obvious shortcomings that need to be corrected. In addition, it is the wrong way to go about debting the EU to finance the Union's current expenditure by financing contributions to the Member States through the usual programmes. This is not the way forward, and there is reason to consider whether this is the most effective way of conducting policy. There are therefore good reasons for Parliament to object to this in this reasoned opinion. We are not doing this because we want to see weaker European cooperation. We are doing this because we want to see a stronger and more effective common Europe. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-205	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal in the Committee on Economic Affairs' report concerning the Government's proposal for an extension of the period of validity of the research permit. I do so in those parts where we do not have reservations. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a mining and mineral country with a large supply of ore and minerals, which has contributed significantly to the prosperity we have today. Modern and sustainable society's technical products depend entirely on the availability of metals and minerals. This means that the mining and minerals industry has the potential to become an important part of shaping a sustainable world and products. As an example, I want to highlight the collaboration between SSAB, LKAB and Vattenfall in the Hybrid project, which aims to create the world's first fossil-free steel – completely without coal – and which, if it goes according to plan, can mean a pioneering revolution within an industry that accounts for a large part of global emissions. Therefore, measures to facilitate the mining and minerals industry are important efforts from an economic perspective but also very much from a climate perspective. Madam President, I would like At the same time, it is important to emphasise that Sweden and our surrounding world are in a very difficult situation. Rarely in modern times has so much changed so quickly for so many. Life has been lost, otherwise viable companies have had to be shut down and workers have had to go home on a Friday without a job to go to on Monday. These are, at the risk of repetition, difficult times in which we live. The mineral industry is no exception here. We must continue to plan for extraordinary measures and be constantly in a waking state, with a view to future events and needs. Let me point out, however, that the reality of the post-crisis situation is incredibly difficult to see. The situation in the future is as uncertain as it is difficult to assess. We do not yet know how long the crisis will be and what form it will take. The spread of the virus that causes covid-19 risks hitting the exploration companies hard. These companies are often small and specialized in exploration for potentially extractable mineral deposits. They therefore lack revenues from their own mining production and rely on external capital in order to continue their operations. Due to the current situation, the investment climate is uncertain, and exploration companies are at risk of being very negatively affected by this, which in turn makes the future uncertain for the Swedish mining industry. Therefore, it is important that the Riksdag now supports the Government's measures to facilitate the companies that carry out research activities in Sweden and hence also for the Swedish mining industry. Madam President, I would like The Government proposes to introduce new provisions in the Minerals Act, which mean that research permits that have been extended after it has been shown that there are particular reasons for extension, and which are valid on 1 July 2020, shall be valid for a further year from the date on which the validity would otherwise have expired. Where those authorisations have been extended for a period less than the total duration of five years, the authorisation may be extended, upon application by the holder of the authorisation, for a further period of time, so that the total extension will instead be no more than six years. However, this applies only if the other conditions for extension are met. Madam President, I would like Investigation activities carried out in fields with permits under the second chapter of the Minerals Act may be of a very different scope and nature. It may consist, for example, of magnetic or electrical measurements, geological examinations, sampling, removal of soil and/ or detonation. The type of survey work and the nature of the area will determine whether, in addition to the research permit, notification or authorisation is also required under other legislation, such as the Environmental Code or the Transport Act. Thus, many investigative activities may involve inconvenience and infringement of the rights of landowners and other rightholders. It is therefore worrying to allow a flat-rate extension of all research permits valid on 1 July. This would pose difficulties in overcoming the overall consequences and risk encroaching both on landowners' rights and on the environment for local residents or for nature and animals. The Government proposal states that the vast majority of valid research permits are not covered, but only concerns those research permits where, in the examination of an application, the assessment has already been made that there are particular reasons for the study work to continue for a maximum of five more years. We cannot therefore see any reason for Parliament to address an announcement to the government in accordance with what the motionaries propose. Madam President, I would like When a method of melting iron in blast furnaces was found in the middle of the 13th century, the foundation for national wealth was laid. Since then, Swedish ores and minerals have created jobs and growth throughout the country, not least in those parts of Sweden that have long had a declining population development. And without metals and minerals, today's technological products such as mobile phones, computers and solar cells could not be manufactured, and the future need for green minerals could not be met. The current pandemic has brought great difficulties for both the mineral industry and the wider world. I therefore welcome the steps taken by the Government and the Riksdag to facilitate one of Sweden's most important present but also future industries in a responsible manner.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-218	Madam President, I would like The Left Party believes that the government's proposals are fundamentally good and that action is needed as a result of the Corona crisis. The mining industry is a strategically important industry for Sweden, not least in regions that have previously suffered from high unemployment and emigration. Modernisation of Swedish society that meets future environmental and climate challenges must also mean that the mining industry develops in harmony with other parts of society. We know that our mining industry plays an important role, not only here but throughout the world. In the bill, the government states that aluminum shale has not been included among the exceptions since work is under way in the Government Office to tighten the regulatory framework for the extraction of aluminescent minerals. With our special opinion, I would like to stress the importance of this work and the urgency of it and the fact that a proposal is soon submitted to Parliament so that the break-up of alums can then end in the near future. I also believe that it is important that the Government's proposal for the extension of the investigation permit be followed up and that the objections raised by the Sami Parliament and the Swedish Sami Federation, the SSR, are clearly taken into account. Why? Well, research activities can be quite extensive. It could be drilling, blasting, digging and removal of soil. This means, of course, that an investigation permit, as stated in the reservation, can create inconvenience and infringe the rights of landowners and other rightholders. Given that some activities are already in question today, the extension of research permits should only include those that are affected here and now and where there are particular reasons for extension. Nor should we forget that the permits have been granted under a mineral law that has been criticised by the UN because it does not take sufficient account of the indigenous Sami. The UN Committee on Racial Discrimination has recommended that Sweden amend its legislation in order to give the Sami a greater influence over their territory so that their rights comply with UN conventions. I commend the S, V and MP reservations.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-223	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The Coronandem affects our society in many different ways. The mineral industry is also affected. As it is now, because of Corona, companies have difficulty implementing measures in time before the permits expire. The Government therefore presents a proposal to extend the investigation permit by one year if there are exceptional reasons. Visible reasons include, for example, the fact that some studies can only be carried out at certain times of the year. I want to make it clear that this matter does not fundamentally affect the position of the Green Party in mining policy. We still believe it is important to design products to reduce pressure on the use of primary natural resources. It is also important to work with circulating minerals, working with urban mining, waste mining and the like. It is only in the third place that minerals are mined from the earth's crust, and then it is very important to have a high level of environmental protection and a strong environmental test. The reason why we are behind this proposal is that the Corona crisis has affected the mineral industry as well, and these are the conditions that the industry cannot control. It is important to note in this context that the new provision does not apply to research permits for coal, oil or fossil gas as it states in the January agreement that they should be banned. There is work in progress in the Government Office to produce such a ban, as has been done in the case of uranium. It is also important to note that the proposed extension concerns research permits but not work plans or other types of permits. The mining industry has come up with a proposition that it wants all research permits to be extended by one year regardless of whether there are particular reasons or not. The bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats have taken advantage of this proposal. On the part of the government and the Green Party, we believe that this is inappropriate. It is unreasonable to weigh the interests of industry unilaterally and ignore the other side. On the other side are those who own land and those who use land. It concerns the property rights and reindeer husbandry of Sami villages as well as private landowners and animals and nature. It is important that there is reasonableness and proportionality in this – rhyme and reason. To lengthen all examination permits by one year is not balanced or proportionate. In other words, it is important that there are exceptional reasons. With this, I call for approval of the bill and of the joint reservation of S, MP and V.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-229	Madam President, I would like We are standing right now in the middle of the eye of the storm that no one saw coming. Some may want to think it's blown over, but probably we have a long way to go until we get out on the other side. We have seen a rapidly growing unemployment, layoffs, activities that have been forced to close down and life's work in decline, not to mention the personal tragedies that no political decision will find the solution to. There are many parts of society that have been affected by the current pandemic. Most people have probably felt it in one way or another, and as new insights emerge, it is important that we evaluate and revise our decisions. A good dose of humility could be appropriate. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the future of exploration companies. The government has tabled a bill that the Moderates welcome. It is an important decision that must be taken to secure Sweden's position as a mining nation and the future of exploration companies. The world faces not only the Corona crisis but also the climate crisis. Last spring we stood here and debated mineral policy, and then I highlighted the importance of the Swedish mining industry from an international perspective. The Swedish mining industry is needed worldwide because the climate crisis, like a pandemic, does not recognise any national borders. Sweden has good conditions for becoming a leading country in the mining industry with high competence and strict environmental laws. This is where we create the future. At a time when minerals are needed more than ever to meet the climate crisis, it is of the utmost importance that exploration companies are not lost. The exploration companies are simply key players in the development of a climate-smart future. Madam President, I would like Exploration companies are very vulnerable. The companies are often small and specialized in exploration. Unlike mining companies, they do not have stable revenues that come directly from mining activities but rely on external capital. And, as you know, the international situation is, to say the least, unstable right now. Exploration is the first step ahead of the start-up of a mining operation, and it is a work that must continue in order for the flow of projects not to stop. The work is resource-intensive and cannot be paused, as the companies risk losing both investments and research permits. This makes the situation very uncertain, which is something we now need to remedy. Madam President, I would like The government's proposals are basically good. It is positive that proposals for extensions are on the table. But the proposal misses a lot of actors, as it only includes the permits that are in the last year. The proposal therefore provides extended authorisations only to those who have already obtained their authorisations extended to a maximum number of times. Without the announcement that the committee now supplements, the uncertainty would remain for the majority of the exploration companies, and thus, in general, we would risk Sweden's position as a mining nation. I support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-236	Madam President, I would like The pandemic that is now sweeping the world has not only severely affected the health and well-being of our citizens but also forced a wide range of activities and industries into the bridge. Where possible, the sectors themselves have found solutions, but when legislation puts them on the hook and restricts their ability to overwinter during the Corona crisis, we in this legislature have a responsibility to review it. One example of this is the parts of the mineral law that regulate research permits. The history of the Swedish mining industry extends to pre-Christian times, and the mining industry is today a cornerstone of our export-dependent base industry. The mining industry creates jobs and generates welfare, something we want it to continue to do even after the pandemic. We are also seeing today an increased demand for metals and minerals as a consequence of the fact that many in the world leave poverty and raise their standard of living. Then they begin to ask for goods containing them. At the same time, the EU aims to increase self-sufficiency, not least for reasons of trade and security policy. If this is combined with new technological achievements requiring mining of so-called innovation-critical minerals, it is understood that the mining industry is a future industry. But is there the ore where you just put the shovel on the hill? Is it just to start digging, and that's the way a mine has been established? Of course, it is not so simple, but each mine is based on someone's prospecting, thus actively searching for deposits and making careful studies of the nature of the bedrock and in that work found breakable ores. No mine comes into existence without prospecting, and no existing mine survives without prospecting. Without exploration, the mining industry will cease and thus eventually also the manufacturing industry will cease when it becomes without domestic raw material. The problem is that exploration by its nature is a costly, long-term and time-consuming search for something that hopefully will eventually generate a profit. For this reason, exploration depends on venture capital and investors and is therefore very sensitive to cyclical fluctuations, as the Corona crisis has highlighted in a harsh way. It is also not only for exploration companies to pause the investigation work because the Swedish Minerals Act is designed like this: If a company holding a research permit does not drill, take samples and analyse, the permit may be revoked. This is something that we have pointed out as a problem during the current pandemic and that we wish to change. Madam President, I would like Let me say, therefore, that it is grateful that the government has listened to the important mining industry of the industrial nation of Sweden. The proposals in the proposal we are debating today are essentially a step in the right direction. However, we note that the Government has chosen in its proposal a design that generates, as we see it, a completely unnecessary administrative burden for both licence holders and licence holders. This is something that we are convinced is negative for the industry when it is going to start again after the deep crisis it is now in. Since we Swedish democrats believe in a strong domestic mining industry and protect the image of Sweden as a mining nation, we believe that the restrictions proposed by the government are unfortunate. It is our firm belief that the decision should cover all state of investigation with the exceptions mentioned in our motion, no matter where they are in the process. Fortunately, it is also a view shared by a majority in committee. I therefore call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-247	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal. The mining industry has a huge significance for Sweden, not least in terms of jobs and the economy. In addition, the country's and the world's demand for metals and minerals increases with the green transformation that we see in, for example, the transport industry. While the mining industry generally survives during the Corona crisis, exploration companies fare worse. They stand as the first link in the entire food chain of the industry. The reason why many of the companies are vulnerable is because they are small and specialised, depend on outside venture capital and do not own their own mines. The Corona epidemic has unfortunately led to many financiers pulling their ears and holding back their capital, which of course is felt by these companies. Moreover, it has often been difficult to carry out investigations because the necessary expertise has not been able to travel to the country. In order for a company to be allowed to search for mineral deposits, one needs to have a research permit according to the Minerals Act. In order to maintain and extend it, it must also be possible to demonstrate that an active investigation is being carried out. If you don't, you risk losing your license. In order to alleviate some of the crisis situations of exploration companies, the Government has submitted a proposal for a one-year and automatic extension of survey permits. Unfortunately, it does not cover all companies that have just been authorised, but only those that are in their last year. It is important to protect Sweden as a mining nation based on the assets of metals and minerals that we will need for the transition to a more climate-neutral society in the future. On this basis, it is wise to extend more valid research permits. The Center Party agrees with the government on many parts of the bill, but, as I said, the proposal is too narrow. The mere extension of the authorisation of companies in the final phase of the maximum duration of exploration is not sufficient. Instead, it risks having a negative impact on Sweden as a mining country. The result of the government's proposal is that much of the investigation work done will not be completed. This, in turn, means that lost work risks being lost. In addition, potential development in rural areas where exploration takes place is negatively affected by the fact that potential jobs do not become a reality. Instead, we propose that the government should return by 31 October 2020 with a legislative proposal that extends all investigation permits valid on 1 July by one year at the time they otherwise expire. However, the extension proposal shall not cover exploration permits relating to oil or gaseous hydrocarbons or based on an application for coal or where coal is explicitly indicated in the permit. In conclusion, I would just like to say that ownership is close to the heart of us center parties, but we do not believe that the extension of the current state of investigation by one year is too restrictive for the landowners and other rightholders concerned. However, this should of course also be further highlighted in the impact assessment that legislative work should include. As a mining country, Sweden would lose out on the proposal to narrow the extension to those in the final phase of the exploration period. Everyone has been affected by the current situation. It would be unfortunate to put a stop to those exploration companies which, with their work, actually contribute to enabling a fossil-free future. We can influence this, and that is why we support the committee's proposal. Madam President, I would like With this I wish you, esteemed colleagues in the Committee on Industry, the Office and everyone else a really lovely summer – the serious situation in spite of it.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-258	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved and for the reservation to be rejected. The Coronapandemia has hit hard and will continue to hit society and our companies very hard, and the mining industry is no exception. With regard to the proposal that we are now debating, it is gratifying that the government has returned to Parliament in such a short time with a proposal, but a majority in the Committee on Economic Affairs believes that the government has not been broad enough. Liberals share the government's view that the new law should apply from 1 July 2020, but our view is that all permits should be extended regardless of where they are in the exploration process and what prospecting is involved. However, we share the government's view that the extension should not include research permits for coal, oil and gaseous hydrocarbons. Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of Europe's most important mining countries. Together with the steel and metalworking plants, the mining industry is a large part of the Swedish export industry. Mining is also Sweden's oldest industrial activity. Mining is an important part of Swedish industry and is also a strong export success. Sweden's mining industry is of great importance for the mineral supply in Europe. Of course, Swedish mining industry should take into account different land, nature, environmental and social interests, but we should not be the ones that put a stop to it. In Norrland, the mining industry creates confidence in the future, more jobs and local growth in towns that have previously had a hard time. A job in the mining industry is not just a job in the mining industry. This is one of the industries that generates the most additional jobs in relation to basic activities. Madam President, I would like I'm going to come back to the bill that we're dealing with today. Exploration for mineral resources is the mining industry of the future. It creates future jobs and a belief in the future. This work must continue so that Sweden's reputation as a mining nation is not adversely affected. To allow this, as the government wishes, only to include the state of investigation that is in the very last year is an unjustified restriction. In addition, the extension of all valid research permits would not entail significant costs or additional administrative burdens for the Bergsstatet. I therefore find it remarkable that the government does not support the committee's proposal for a decision. With that, Madam President, I would like to wish the President and the Office a pleasant summer. And I wish the same thing to the Committee on Industry and Industry with a private office.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-267	Madam President, I would like Markus Wiechel has asked questions about the government's strategy against covid-19 now and in the future and whether I will take the initiative for further action in the future. Sweden and the world are going through a historic crisis. We are in the midst of a pandemic of millions of infected people and hundreds of thousands of deaths worldwide. The virus that spreads is previously unknown. There's no way to go about it. We must remember that when discussing these issues. Sweden's strategy against covid-19 aims ultimately to limit the spread of infection in order to protect people's lives and health and to safeguard health care capacity. In this context, sufficient resources for healthcare and a minimised impact on other community activities are of great importance. The measures taken shall be sustainable and based on knowledge and proven experience. It is also important that appropriate measures should be taken at the right time. Therefore, the measures taken are under continuous review. Thus, the goal has always been to reduce the spread of infection, flatten the curve, protect vulnerable groups and reduce pressure on health care. The strategy has not been aimed at achieving flock immunity, as the interpeller suggests. In its national considerations, Sweden has closely followed the assessments and recommendations of the WHO and the ECDC. It is advice that at the same time needs to be adapted to the national context, as different countries have different conditions. Both the WHO and the ECDC have pressed for that very thing. In Sweden, the Swedish Public Health Agency is the expert authority that coordinates, monitors and develops disease protection at national level. The Authority shall also take initiatives in its area of responsibility for measures protecting the population against communicable diseases. This responsibility lies with the Authority both in normal circumstances and in times of crisis. In line with the strategy, the government, authorities and other actors have taken a series of measures against covid-19. The public has taken a great deal of responsibility and followed the advice and recommendations of the authorities. Sweden has once again shown strength in our cohesion. I would like to stress that the work of the government is without prestige. It is part of the strategy to bring in new knowledge, adjust the measures taken and take new measures as the knowledge situation develops. It is true that many have died as a result of covid-19 in Sweden. That is deeply regrettable. My thoughts and those of the government go to anyone who has lost a dear relative or friend. Pandemin has flashed that there is much to do to not least improve care for the elderly in Sweden. It's good in many places – the employees do a fantastic job – but the quality is too uneven. I would like to emphasise here that different regions and municipalities have not only been affected differently, but that there are also many good examples of how the new coronavirus has been prevented from entering retirement homes. In order to tackle the spread of retirement homes, a number of measures have been taken at national and local level, and the number of cases and deaths has fallen sharply. This is important, but our oldest and most fragile will continue to need more attention and support. In conclusion, Sweden is moving into a better situation regarding the pandemic. Now there are more opportunities to further suppress the infection via testing and detection, in line with the overall strategy. The Government has allocated a total of SEK 6.9 billion for this, and entered into an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions. Work is also under way to secure a possible vaccine against covid-19 based on the vaccine strategy presented by the government on 20 May. But this is certainly not the time to let go. The government remains ready to take new measures. The spread of the virus at national and local level must continue to be combated, and everyone must continue to follow the advice and recommendations of the authorities. That's just how we're going to deal with this crisis – together.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-282	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. The Government's response shows that the alleged strategy of the government becomes even more incomprehensible when it is claimed that one has not been looking for any kind of flock immunity. Of course, it has never been explicitly said. But what else is it that one wants to achieve when one allows the infection to ravage freely, or almost freely, in society? You just want to suppress the infection. You don't want to stop it, and you don't want to do what you can to stop it. It is incomprehensible to me, then, that there is no strategy other than to promote a flock immunity, which we do not know at all today. Is it, then, that the disease has been allowed to ravage society for fun? Now, all of a sudden, you're going to do a lot of testing and detection. It's something you should have done from the start. What makes the Government and the Government see that this is the right time? The obvious thing when it comes to managing a pandemic and a virus that is completely unknown is to take it safe for the uncertain. The government has certainly not taken it safe for the uncertain. Instead, it has been pretended that this is just a common flu. Flu goggles have been worn, and at the same time, as I mentioned earlier, they seem to have remained in some form of herd immunity. This has led to the premature and very painful, lonely death of thousands. It can't be explained away by not knowing anything. You should have taken it safe for the insecure. In mid-February, Lena Hallengren said that the national preparedness to manage an outbreak of the Corona virus in Sweden was very good. We know that Sweden was anything but ready. We had a lack of resources, and there was no strategy in the care of the elderly. Society as a whole was not ready for this, and the government was definitely not ready for this. A strategy has been adopted that is more or less in line with the overall international expertise. It is not, as the Government claims in its answer, to base its policy on knowledge and the science that exists. In such cases, I would like to see that science, because the Public Health Authority has so far not reported anything. The public health authority's critics, that is, those who have been right from the beginning, have a lot of research to refer to. Just look at the research on masks: There are over a hundred scientific studies that show why masks and masks help – over a hundred scientific studies! There are so many studies that show that there are asymptomatic and presymptomatic spreads of infection. It's facts and nothing you can just wave away. At the same time, the Public Health Agency has repeatedly been wrong, but they still have the full confidence of the government. I don't understand how it works now, if you're protecting a society where the infection is kept down. I could come back to all the different errors that the Public Health Agency has had. I do not expect it to have been deliberate on their part, but the government should at least put on some other glasses and look at why it has chosen a different path in other countries. Why is Sweden doing so badly? Sweden is doing really badly. The Minister forgot my first question in the interpellation. Does the Minister regret the alleged Swedish strategy? Yes or no.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-288	Madam President, I would like It is not clear what Markus Wiechel wants to say with his interpellation. I must also say that it is unclear how Markus Wiechel views the Swedish strategy. I say this one more time: the strategy is not a flock immunity. The strategy is nothing but to limit the spread of the Swedish disease as much as possible. To completely shut out the virus – a strategy to eliminate the virus from our society in a short time – would be fantastic. I do not think that is possible, and I am basing this on the fact that the hunt for a vaccine is extensive. The whole world realizes that we will not be able to go back to living our lives more normally before we have a vaccine. We will not be able to go back to communities that function normally, as we knew them before the pandemic, because the virus will remain. Of course, there will be no great spread of infection; that is the purpose of the strategy, as I mentioned in my interpellation response. It is about saving both life and health and limiting the spread of infection, making it maximum and protecting risk groups. Before I further respond to what is possible in Markus Wiechels's line, I would nevertheless like to respond to the attacks on Sweden's state epidemiologist that are in the interpellation. I believe that Markus Wiechel knows very well that the state epidemiologist, like the authority, stands by the fact that we have a strategy that we are working on, but that one should constantly evaluate oneself and one's actions. You should learn from what is happening in Sweden and in other countries. I find it very difficult to understand why we should have a language that indicates something other than that. We are dealing with a serious illness, and I think it would be wise for Markus Wiechel to be careful to distort statements by officials in the way that is made both orally and in the written interpellation. I also think it is important that we, not least from this Assembly and also from the Swedish government and other decision-makers really try to understand, although it is very difficult and complicated. By definition, a pandemic means a new virus that spreads around the world, and the possibility of limiting its effects is something we all want to achieve. I would like to emphasise that the measures taken by Sweden are precisely aimed at changing people's behaviour, in the same way as in other countries. They want to reduce mobility, and they want to reduce contacts – to keep people away. They want to keep the virus at a distance through hand hygiene and disinfection and by ensuring in different ways that health care personnel protect themselves when they know that they have direct contact with covid-19. However, I would like to emphasise that comparing countries in the way that Markus Wiechel does gives a false picture. Sweden has been hit hard, like many other countries. Comparing itself with the UK, Belgium, Holland, France, Italy and Spain allows themselves to be done – we have all been affected, and in different ways the infection has come to our countries. Depending on how hard we have been hit, it is clear that we also see the effects. We have equipped Swedish healthcare by not only double but in different parts of the country both three- and quadruple the number of intensive care places. We have cancelled the care that is possible to cancel, which also means that we then have reason to discuss the care debt that is being built up in parallel with this. So I think it is important that we make sure that our authorities and representatives interpret correctly and in a way that enables them to continue to dare to reason, think and describe doubts – and also correct what you feel is gradually learning more about.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-295	Madam President, I would like It sounds to the Government that it is a coincidence that Sweden has been hit hard and today is actually fourth or fifth worst in the world in terms of the number of deaths per capita. I think we should compare different countries, because this is not a coincidence. It is about which strategies different countries have chosen. For example, the UK initially chose a strategy that was similar to that of Sweden and followed the open approach. You can all believe this, but at some point you have to realise that this strategy is not working. It is also a strategy that I find rather difficult to call a strategy, because, as I said, it is very unclear given that no further measures have been taken to reduce the spread of infection more than, for example, in our neighbouring countries – or for that matter, to protect our groups at risk. The risk groups are more vulnerable in Sweden. It's a fact. The reason why so many more people die in Sweden is that the infection is more widespread in Sweden. It's no harder than that. It is simply no coincidence that many have been affected. We have to get back to this with the Public Health Agency. I will not go into detail on what they have said and not; there are many quotations from partly individual representatives of the Public Health Agency but also from its own website. For example, the use of visors or mouthguards on staff may be considered, provided that the quality work of the organisation emphasises that the other measures are the basic and most important, as an additional measure to try to reduce the risk of covid-19 spreading. It is therefore a matter of the Swedish Public Health Agency's guidelines for elderly care. Mouth protection and visor may be considered. What can be considered? That should be a matter of course! Protective equipment that some representatives of the Public Health Authority have in various ways devalued is, I would say, basic if you are to protect the elderly, which should be the most important thing. When it comes to mouthguards, we know that they help – I mentioned earlier that there are countless studies showing it. This applies even to the simplest mouthguards. In Germany, the infection has been reduced by 40 percent thanks to mouth protection, but Sweden does not even consider mouth protection in public places. There are some vague recommendations that a maximum of 50 people should gather in one place and that people should sit far away from each other. The measures that really help are not here. That is the big problem. It is no coincidence that we have so many deaths in Sweden, but it is a pure consequence of the paralysis that this government has shown. I think it's sad. I have respected that the government has had to work during the spring to try to prevent this and that one should have peace and quiet and not have to be held accountable in this way. However, I have not accepted the development I have seen from the beginning. For this reason, the Minister knows very well that, for example, I have submitted a number of written questions to the Government. The minister himself has probably received 20 questions from me about the Corona virus during the spring. I questioned actions by the government that were not good enough and that the virus was not taken seriously as early as early as the beginning of March– it was on 4 March or something like that. As early as February, I saw all this. In fact, the one looking in the right direction could see a number of experts who warned against this as early as January. On January 3, experts knew about the virus's DNA. Even then, tough measures should have been put in place to slow down the spread of the disease and to gain time.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-302	Madam President, I would like Sometimes it is said that hindsight is the exact science. I think we can agree with that. I also think we can agree that there is a time to raise our eyes and also to look ahead – what can we do in the coming months and perhaps in the coming year? Unfortunately, we are in a pandemic that we have not seen the end of. This means, of course, that we should learn from the months that have passed. It feels in many contexts, I think, that it has been a very long time. A lot has happened in Swedish politics. The government has made an enormous number of decisions. The Parliament has also made decisions; it is now well up to nine additional amending budgets. So a lot has happened in a short time. This means that it is short time to get to know a new virus. I would like to remind Markus Wiechel – if it may have disappeared – that the virus was classified as a general and social dangerous virus on 1 February. This has also been confirmed by the Riksdag, which has introduced it into the Disease Control Act through a bill only a few weeks ago. So it was not that Markus Wiechel alone sat with knowledge and knowledge that we were dealing with a dangerous virus. Markus Wiechel is happy to devote his last line to telling us in what ways we should be sure of the uncertainty that he has returned to a few times in order to be a little more concrete. After all, none of us – I repeat this – are giving up measures that we know will have an effect. As far as I am aware, there was one measure that the Swedish Democrats advocated for at least a short time, namely that we should close our primary schools. It was not something that we decided to do, because we did not see that this would have the crucial importance that children do not drive the spread of infection. We have also been able to confirm that it has not contributed to the spread of infection. Other countries are opening up their schools and are rather seeing other measures to maintain distance. It sounds a bit like no action has been taken. Let me remind you that a consequence of the fact that general meetings must not gather more than 50 people has been considerable financial losses for many actors. However, it has also contributed to the fact that people do not meet in the forums where we know that the risk of infection is high, with many people on a small surface. Cultural and sporting events have been able to start, but not with listeners, whom we had all longed for and wanted. Many measures have been taken. Students in higher education and upper secondary education have studied at a distance for almost three months. A lot of people work from home. Public transport has fallen dramatically, and mobility across the country during all our weekends has also decreased dramatically. Let me remind you of this! Let me also devote my last minute to saying that it is no coincidence, Markus Wiechel, how different countries are affected. I recommend reading the analysis that the Swedish Public Health Agency has done about different virus strains. It is very often relevant to compare Nordic countries with each other, and I am happy to do so. The countries are similar in many different ways and have the Nordic model – we choose to call it the Swedish model – for how healthcare systems are structured. However, when it comes to how people travel and what is the reason why the spread of infection comes to each country, it is not certain that it is precisely our neighbouring countries that we are comparing ourselves to. Of course, the way in which the spread of infection comes to Sweden is affected by 1 million Swedes who in four weeks not only travel to but also come back from many different countries, who then do not discover what the spread of infection they have in their communities. Let me also remind Markus Wiechel that it does not look the same throughout Sweden. It is the region in which we find ourselves, which also has a great deal of media coverage, which has been hit hardest. I am talking about the Stockholm region. This matters very much. However, large parts of the country have taken the same measures but have not had the same spread of infection. We also have lockdowns, to which Markus Wiechel may refer, in several countries with devastating spreads of infection and a devastating number of deaths as a result. Care should therefore be taken to draw conclusions on the link between action and impact.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-313	Madam President, I would like There are several things you could do, and given all the written questions that Lena Hallengren has received from you, it feels like she already knows several of the measures that I would have taken if I had had that opportunity. To sum up, it's about a quick shutdown of various things as soon as you found out that this came, to gain time. When you win that time, you can secure strategies for elderly care and ensure that there is enough protective equipment, that people have the training they need and so on. Winning time is all, and that is what the countries in the world that have succeeded in doing. The fact is, here they gave up from the very beginning. At least it seemed so, because all of a sudden it was announced that it does not help to detect or test. Suddenly it was said that we cannot stop this virus. I also don't think it was possible, or possible, to stop it from the beginning – not in Sweden. On the other hand, it would have been possible to stop it radically, which would have saved lives. This may have cost some money, but the fact is that there are studies showing that the cities that have closed down early have benefited both in life and in economic terms. They have managed financially in the long term because they have protected their health. There are various things that suggest that there are differences in Sweden too depending on how different municipalities have handled this. What is common to the municipalities that have succeeded well is that they have gone beyond the Swedish Public Health Agency's recommendations. It is the same when it comes to countries – those who have acted quickly with protective equipment and have not problematised protective equipment have also saved more people. Those are facts. Last but not least, Madam President, I note that the Minister has still not answered the first question in the interpellation.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-318	Madam President, I would like Unlike Markus Wiechel, who has everything clear about how we should have done, how we do and which countries have succeeded, I am more humble in my attitude. It is clear that we should always learn from what we have done, what we have not done and what other countries have done that prove to be working, but let me remind you of something. Anyone who compares the spread of infection and the number of deaths in Skåne with the spread of infection and the number of deaths in, for example, Copenhagen – this is a labour market region that people have travelled within – sees that Skåne is less affected than Copenhagen despite the fact that the same measures have been taken in Skåne as in the rest of Sweden and that Copenhagen has taken the same measures as in the rest of Denmark. When it comes to which countries have actually had lockdowns successfully, I do not want to point out countries that have not succeeded; it is too early. However, to say that the Netherlands, Belgium, the United Kingdom, France, Spain and Italy are countries which, with their lockdowns, have been able to have a much more successful situation for health care or for the rest of the population, I think it is a long way off. Let me also say that the economy has not gone ahead. We have made sure to use our economic muscles to enable people to easily be home from work. We saw how the number of people who used the possibility of sickness benefit increased dramatically when people had mild symptoms when the pandemic was really new in society. I think this shows that people take a great responsibility. However, it is not only based on people taking responsibility. Even if we had done the so-called lockdown which Markus Wiechel did not then advocate but which he is now apparently advocating, health care, care for the elderly and all childcare cannot be shut down. The same applies to police, rescue services, fire brigades and other essential functions such as grocery stores and pharmacies – they do not shut down. I want to say to everyone who listens that we should not be led to believe that it is possible to shut everything down. There are activities – and there are quite a few – that need to be open for society to function. If you have a large spread of infection and the infection has been introduced from many different sources, it becomes much more difficult for those who have a small spread of infection from the beginning.
i-PGYSLG5isEgatEEeRcmPC4	Mr President! Last Friday, EU leaders met at a video conference to discuss the Commission's proposals on the long-term budget and on recovery packages. The negotiations between the EU and the UK and the economic sanctions against Russia were also concerned. Mr President, I would like to Europe is still in a serious situation with a risk to life and health. We definitely haven't seen the end yet. The economic effects of this pandemic have hit the world hard. We agree that joint efforts will be required within the EU to get the wheels to spin again. The recovery package presented by the Commission can play an important role, but it cannot solve economic problems on its own. In order to restore the functioning of the real economy, the internal market and free movement must begin to function fully. Mr President, I would like to In the run-up to the meeting, the President of the European Council, Mr Michel, had identified four issues that need further discussion. The first is the size and construction of the recovery plan. The second is whether aid should be granted in the form of loans or grants. The third concerns matters relating to conditionality and governance. The fourth is the size and financing of the long-term budget, including the issue of discounts. The meeting on Midsummer Eve was in practice a table round where leaders could present their overall positions. But there was no real negotiation, nor was it planned. I put forward common positions from Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands and Austria. We support joint EU action to counter the effects of the crisis. It is crucial to get a strong package of measures in place as quickly as possible. However, it is also important that the measures address the right areas as well as sectors. I underlined the need for crisis-related criteria based on up-to-date statistics. The crisis measures shall be temporary. It is important that the measures are put in place as soon as possible. But they should be completed by the end of 2022. As regards the scope of crisis measures, I said on behalf of the Group that they should be large enough to make a difference, while also taking into account the fact that there are limits to the amount of funds that can be effectively absorbed in the Member States. We believe that the recovery fund should be based on loans and not on contributions to the Member States. In practice, the grant structure proposed by the Commission would mean an increase of almost 50% in the EU budget, and that is not reasonable. An arrangement with loans at favourable interest rates and a long repayment period enables smart investments that lead to more jobs, sustainable growth, increased productivity and increased competitiveness. This will also create the conditions for repayment. Finally, the recovery fund should not be confused with the long-term budget. As far as the long-term budget is concerned, we and our like-minded people still believe that the total volume is too large and that discounts are a prerequisite for agreement. Now there are discounts in the Commission's proposal. There are many countries that are resisting this, so it is by no means clear. But it is good that it is included in the proposal. It is also good that, according to the proposal, the budget is modernised, among other things, through a greater focus on climate and digitalisation. It also proposes a clear link between receiving EU funds and respecting the principles of the rule of law. This is something that Sweden has fought hard for. Mr President, I would like to Overall, the discussion shows that there are still a number of dividing lines as well as a series of groupings on these issues. The main stumbling blocks remain the size and structure of the Recovery Fund and the distribution of funds among Member States. On the issue of the long-term budget, these are largely the same issues discussed in February, namely the size of the budget, the rebates and the distribution between different areas of expenditure. In other words, a great deal of discussion and improvement will be required before an agreement can be reached. It should also be said that the EU's recovery is important for Sweden. I look forward to the continued discussions so that in the long term we can achieve a good balance in both the recovery fund and the long-term budget. The EU's economies can then become stronger and more resilient. Mr Michel will now consult all EU leaders and present a draft agreement within a few weeks. Then we will discuss it at a meeting in Brussels in mid-July. Mr President, I would like to At the meeting, we also had an update of the negotiations between the EU and the United Kingdom. Mr Michel and Mr von der Leyen, President of the Commission, presented their meeting with the British Prime Minister, Boris Johnson. That would have been constructive. There is a common will now to intensify the negotiations this summer in order to try to reach an agreement this autumn. In addition, Chancellor Merkel of Germany provided an update on the implementation of the so-called Minsk agreements. The assessment was that little progress had been made, and the leaders were therefore able to give political backing to the extension of sanctions. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I can also mention the Eastern Partnership meeting that took place on 18 June. European leaders here stressed the strategic importance we attach to the partnership. A formal Eastern Partnership Summit is planned for March 2021. This brings me to the end of the report.
i-uWJmx7TJTq3LfdbDFhPDY	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. The meeting was well as expected, you might think we all think. Nevertheless, I thought it was a certain positive note from the report. Clearly, concessions and positions will be required from all countries to agree on the long-term budget and the recovery package. Sometimes I think it's described as sparing four of us being the problem. I think that Sweden has shown a great willingness to make a great concession. I am thinking of the joint debt that will build up the recovery fund. Sweden has certainly not signed an exact number. I fully share the Prime Minister's view that the amount that is now being talked about is too large. However, we have, in any case, moved from a previous very critical attitude to the view of joint debt. It's not a small transfer for us. The attitude that Sweden has had has had many good reasons. For example, we are not in the euro area. But now I think that Sweden needs to get back properly when it comes to our demands in terms of both the budget and the recovery package. The fact that we may be allowed to retain the rebate that we already have today is not enough. Nor are they really the obvious conditions for all EU countries to comply with the principles of the rule of law. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister about the views of the other countries. Are they ready to move too? I think, as I said in the open consultation, that the transfer we have made should strengthen our position in being able to negotiate vigorously. This applies in particular to the reduction in the volume and modernisation of the budget. We should be able to be tougher in our position right now.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-348	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I share the view that the meeting was just as expected. It wasn't planned to be anything else. Everyone will also understand that if there is to be an agreement at some point, it must be for position transfers from a bit different directions. Otherwise, there will be no agreement, and that would, of course, be dramatic. We have pursued a few things on the budget very clearly. One is the discounts. That is an absolute precondition for reaching agreement at all. Otherwise, we will gradually increase the membership fee considerably, and that will not happen. That's what we said. There we are four very clear, like Germany, who also believe that discounts must remain. I said in my initial report that this is now in the proposal, but it is not therefore said that that is exactly how it is going to be. There are still many who oppose the existence of discounts. However, I hear some former powerful opponents who are still beginning to see that perhaps it is necessary. So we have to stay there and work hard for this. Conditionality is good to me. I also think that modernisation, more in the direction of digitalisation and that we keep in the climate perspective are good ingredients. But when it comes to volume and other things, there is still to be done. Everyone will discuss all these different parameters. We are also pushing for more up-to-date criteria with regard to the recovery fund. What has actually been damaged, and who has been injured? You shouldn't go on historical data or population numbers. There I also feel that there is more sensitivity to the reasoning. But there's still a lot to discuss. We have a long journey.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-354	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I support the Prime Minister's call for negotiations to keep the rebates, so fight on! I want to make it clear that the Moderates' criticism of the proposals is not about a lack of European solidarity, but vice versa. We want Sweden to help, but within the limits of reasonableness. We understand, of course, that Sweden's large exports to EU countries are crucial to our prosperity. That is why it is so important that the budget and the recovery package really go to the right things. It is also important for the recovery package to clarify the funding. First spending and then finding out how to pay is irresponsible, and shooting this on the next generation does not improve. Talking about a number of different EU taxes for solving the refund is not the way. I do not think I received an answer to the question of what the other countries have done to move around. I also wonder if there are more countries than the Frugal Four that would consider looking at the criteria and the construction of the recovery package so that we can bind new loyalties.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-359	Mr President, I would like to As far as European solidarity is concerned, that is true. We have solidarity. We have been net contributors for many, many years, and we have always said that we think it is perfectly okay because Sweden is a country that has relatively higher prosperity. It's true. But it is also the case that during the crisis we did not close borders and did not stop exporting medical equipment. Nearly ten countries ended up doing this. I would remind you that Sweden never did so, but we continued to export in the middle of the crisis. We have set out the major programme of EUR 540 billion presented by the finance ministers in the past. It is wrong to say otherwise, and there must be some limit in this. As far as loans and financing are concerned, the old differences remain. But yes, there are more than F4 who see doubts here - partly for other reasons. On the one hand, we think that this is an unfair distribution and, on the other hand, we think that the EU is given an excessive mandate. But it is not that F4 is completely solo.
i-8EWEDMXwZvBR7qEQdBUxfN	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. I wish to begin by regretting that the government is supporting the establishment of the crisis fund. What the Swedes voted on in the elections on EMU was precisely if we were to belong to monetary cooperation in Europe or not. The Swedes voted against. Sweden would not be financially affected when other countries are driving their economy to the bottom. The government now believes that it is acceptable to use loan instruments in this way in the EU and that countries that find it difficult to borrow money should be helped by other EU countries to lower their interest rates. But this is not the way forward. Italy has had budget deficits in its finances annually for over 50 years. I am not saying no to helping Italy during a crisis, but in that case it should be done bilaterally or via the IMF. It should also be accompanied by clear demands for economic reform. Countries cannot be allowed to drive their economies to the bottom and expect other countries to arrange the loans. When it comes to subsidies, we naturally welcome the fact that the government is saying no to this. What worries us a little is that when you read the media reporting after the meeting, the countries of the South do not seem to be very worried. It is believed that everyone wants a solution and that the negotiations continue. There is simply great hope that this will be a source of peace. I therefore wonder: has the government been clear enough that Sweden is not going to accept the subsidies and that we are not going to accept another EU budget that we are going to pay back on? Has the government been clear about this? Has the Prime Minister said that this is nothing to negotiate about and that we do not intend to accept the contributions? Has it reached the countries of the South?
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-367	Mr President, I would like to If you listen to the criticism that Sweden receives in this regard, I think you can say that it has been achieved. There is a clear disappointment in the discussion that we are not considered to be solidarity enough because we do not support subsidies but want to see loans. On the other hand, the Swedish democrats and the government and most of the other parties have completely different views on the support. We must also understand that without membership of the European Union and the exchange we have of it, we would have had a much worse situation in Sweden. There is a great value in this, and it is clear that there is therefore also a great risk. If big economies are allowed to fall into this, we have a risk. It's not just free to say no. There is also a cost, an alternative cost, to be looked at. As far as the call for reform is concerned, we are clear that we want to see both the criteria for the distribution of what Member States are to receive and that it should go to what actually promotes productivity, growth and competitiveness. That is how we build values that we can then use for different purposes. For us it is important that this is the case. The Commission's proposal is based on linking it to the so-called semester, where countries have already stated what should be done to achieve stronger economies. It is expressed there, and then you should follow it. It will also be based on climate change and so on. It is therefore not entirely free, but I think it remains to be worded more clearly, because you can always make demands on what the money is to be used for. To be continued!
i-UNUPH8NrvWozaeCFJpVU1T	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for reporting back! For the Center Party, we welcome the fact that the government has put forward a number of important issues, on which we also have a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament. We agree that the scope of the future EU budget cannot be allowed to grow unhindered. It is gratifying that the government has pressed for conditionality both in the recovery fund and in the long-term budget. It is important that we ensure that European funds do not go to those who do not respect the fundamental values of the European Union. I also welcome the fact that we are pressing for the recovery fund to be there to repair actual damage. It is not a question of repairing a generally poor economic situation, but of coping with the effects of the crisis. What I would like to ask the Prime Minister is whether he has in any way put forward the importance of the recovery fund, when it is ready and when it starts to work, also working for a green transition and for reforms in the area of digitalisation, for example. Are there any possibilities to connect these two together? As far as the long-term budget is concerned, I would like to hear a little bit about how the Prime Minister is putting forward the demands for modernisation. Much of the budget can be modernised; I think most people agree with that. This also applies to the common agricultural policy. However, many times when we have discussed these issues in recent years in Parliament, it sounds like everything to be saved on should be taken from agricultural policy. Here it is extremely important that we do not get a budget that weakens Sweden's competitive position. We should also remember that it is not just about agricultural aid and agricultural policy, but also about support for regions that face major growth challenges. How has the Prime Minister balanced this?
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-378	Mr President, I would like to It is a strength when negotiating that there is a strong commitment in the Swedish Parliament on these issues. Conditionality is such a question. There I feel that there is strong support. There are some who do not like this, but linking conditionality to the principles of the rule of law is a good thing. There we have been clear, so I feel that we have had success there. Then there was the question of the fund. We have expressed our firm opinion, and that is the Commission's ambition, that it should also be linked to the green. There, the President of the Commission, Mrs von der Leyen, is clear. There are also some Member States that are resisting, but I feel that we have got an ever-widening line for that line, that is to say that it must go hand in hand with the climate change change. That is absolutely necessary. This is something that we have made clear – as well as digitalisation. The same applies to the budget. The modernisation we have been talking about is not just about adding more. First of all, it is a large Member State that is a net contributor who has left the EU. Correcting the mouth after the lunch also means re-prioritising the budget. We have seen that it is possible to transform priorities into more digitalisation, a climate shift and to increase productivity. CAP – agricultural policy – has a clearly stated green perspective. That's good. There are things that can be done again because there is evidence that a lot of money is being spent on large landowners, and that is perhaps not what should be done in the first place. But, of course, Swedish farmers should not be relatively less competitive. It's not a valet of it. We also believe that there can be modernisation of cohesion policy in order to promote more what is the future.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-383	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that it is wrong, in itself, for even larger agricultural units to take part in the EU's agricultural policy. A bigger problem is that Viktor Orbán and people associated with him have been able to lift money out of the system. I think that we can certainly push for this kind of thing to improve. That's where we can cut backs. But it is important that this does not affect the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture. At least we in Parliament agree to strengthen competitiveness. It cannot be the case that it is farmers and Sweden's countryside that should pay for Brexit, although we all understand that it affects the budget work. I have one other question which I would like to include in my speech: in the past we put forward the importance of clear wording, free and rule-based trade and a functioning internal market. It will be absolutely crucial for Europe and especially for Sweden as an export-dependent country to make trade and mobility work. Otherwise it will be difficult to get the economy going. We can't just go in with support packages. How did you put that argument forward?
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-386	Mr President, I would like to I say again that it is not the case that Swedish farmers should lose competitiveness. That's not how changes should happen. But we need to look at all parts of the budget. The four of us focus on the issue of the internal market. Although this aid is provided in some form of fund, it is not that aid alone that makes a difference. The difference is made by means of a sufficiently strong internal market with free movement. That is why we would like to remind you that Sweden is a country that did not restrict freedom of movement during the crisis. We could tell both Italy and Spain that Swedish companies continued to deliver medical equipment to several countries in the midst of the crisis when other countries closed their borders. That is the way to guard and defend the internal market, and that is where we need to go back. The internal market, mobility, digitalisation and climate are the kind of issues that we want to prioritise, and we are clearly expressing this together with the others.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-390	Mr President and Prime Minister Stefan Löfven! There is no doubt that there will be a need for massive investment to get us out of the crisis. It is about investments that increase productivity and competitiveness, reduce climate emissions and maintain demand in the economy. This is primarily a national responsibility, but of course international organisations can also contribute. The European Investment Bank is an excellent tool available at European level. The question is whether the recovery fund is the right method. It is necessary to be able to act decisively, in a targeted and short time if investments are to achieve their intended purpose. This is about paying in money and then applying for them back as loans or grants or strengthening the EU budget. We don't know that yet. It is neither speed nor accuracy that characterises these systems. It will probably be too spread and too late, but there will be quite a lot of money for the EU system. There are really two other things that are happening. The European Commission is taking the opportunity to get the bigger budget it has always wanted. The crisis is used as an argument. Very little of what you should use the money for has to do with the crisis. The second is that the euro area countries have not been able to create a common system of bonds – eurobonds. Now we are trying to transfer joint borrowings at EU level instead, which actually belong at euro level. It has something to do with getting out of the Corona crisis. There are also a number of euro area countries that are heavily indebted and may have problems with future borrowing. That is why it is so important and good that the Riksdag has a clear position and given a clear mandate, and I hope that the Government will stick to this and have a close dialogue with the Riksdag in the future. My question concerns Hungary. Does the Prime Minister think that the situation in Hungary is so serious in terms of democracy and human rights that articles should already be invoked and other options used to reduce payments from EU funds?
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-395	Mr President, I would like to First there was the question of whether there is a need for massive investment, and I think we all agree there. Jonas Sjöstedt and the Left Party then asked whether the fund is the right thing to do. I think it depends on the construction of it. I believe, like Jonas Sjöstedt, that it must be targeted, and therefore the criteria must be clearer; there has been damage here, and then we can get support. The Fund should also be limited in time. That is why we are proposing the end of 2022. Otherwise, there will only be an extension of the budget. I did not intend to pay in the first place to the fund and then to get it back, but to be a matter of borrowing for the European Union. That is why we want to increase the own resources ceiling. On the other hand, there is a commitment from each country, i.e. that this is based on the use of the EU budget and that the Member States guarantee the fund in some way. That's why we want loans, not grants, because the money is going back. I share the view that there is a risk that there will only be a larger budget, and that is what we are opposed to. We've been against it all along, and we don't think it's right. That is why the 500 billion represents almost a 50% increase. Then there was the question of Hungary. It is the Commission that has to follow up whether the Member States comply with the requirements and comply with the requirements of the Treaty. The Commission then carries out the studies to be carried out. I am pleased that the Commission is tightening up the requirements for the future with regard to the funds paid out of both the budget and a possible fund. It makes clear a direction, and there is increasing pressure to do so. That's absolutely right.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-400	Mr President, I would like to I welcome the Prime Minister's answer. I also think it is right to say that the money should be spent during the time that it can actually be useful to get us out of the crisis. I would like to tie in with Magnus Ek's question from the Center Party. Agricultural aid and regional aid are actively used in both Hungary and the Czech Republic to reward those who are loyal to the regime. It distributes agricultural land and distributes aid to oligarchs and landowners. The main participant in the Czech Republic has an important political role to play in the Czech Republic. It would therefore be difficult if aid were to be withdrawn because it goes directly on their system of maintaining political power. I believe that it is primarily a political signal, and it is important for Sweden as a country to be able to say that it has now gone too far in terms of media freedom, with universities closing down and raiding people who write on social media that we think it is time for us to put political pressure. It would be welcome if the Prime Minister could take such a position.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-403	Mr President, I would like to Our view of closing universities and other things has been expressed. We are one of the states that pursue these issues within the framework of the European Union. On the other hand, there is a system of purely legal compliance and requirements, and it is up to the Commission to both follow it and initiate investigations if necessary. There is no difference in substance but possibly in form as to how this should happen. I share the view on agricultural subsidies. I have made it clear on several occasions, both bilaterally and on other occasions, that this was hardly the way it was intended once. That is why we are pushing that we have to redo agricultural aid and not least ensure that there is much more pressure on climate change here too. We will continue to pursue this.
i-SZ3qhJMTsRQCSB95LfNbHB	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. It is important that the EU does the right thing and focuses on its core tasks. That is why we in the Christian Democrats believe that the EU's long-term budget should be prudent and that it should be financed in existing ways, not through new EU taxes. The EU should focus on future challenges such as security and climate, but this must be done by redeployment within the budget. The Christian Democrats want to see a more moderate budget for the next seven years and that Sweden can keep the discount on the EU fee, which is about SEK 6 billion. Mr President, I would like to We are in a deep economic crisis because of the coronapandemy, which has crippled the economy. Millions of people are infected, and hundreds of thousands have died. Together, we can play a role in this crisis and show solidarity with countries particularly affected within the EU by assisting each other with healthcare and medical equipment as well as preferential loans and economic recovery. The European Commission's proposal for a recovery package to help EU countries affected by the crisis is EUR 750 billion, with EUR 500 billion being proposed as grants and EUR 250 billion as loans. It's a huge bet. The Christian Democrats believe that the recovery fund is best designed by means of loans, not grants, and that the support should primarily be directed to those who are most in need and have been severely affected by the pandemic. There is a need to review the repayment period, which extends over three decades. In the EU Board, the Prime Minister was critical of the repayment period for loans, which thus spans 30 years. My question is whether the Prime Minister has been given the floor for a shorter repayment period for the loans.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-411	Mr President, I would like to I can start with that at the end. We had no negotiation at the time, but at the meeting last week all leaders were given the opportunity to express their views of principle. That's why I don't know. It's so that those who really want this, they want as long a refund period as possible. One question is whether it is the Member State or the EU that should repay. Many imagine these 30 years while others say that then you take on so much for generations far ahead that it is not good. Precise position there, I can't say, but we keep pushing for it to be shorter. This should extend to 2022, and then it should be shorter. It'll be too big a commitment if you don't. The core tasks are security and climate, as Robert Halef mentioned. But it is also important for us, at the end of this, to build an even stronger market so that the internal market really works. That's a good thing. That is what I think is so important that we see, because the internal market is extremely economically important for Sweden. We have every reason to contribute to this, not least in the world in which we live now if we think outside the EU-US, China, India and other major players and Russia, the other big neighbour in the East. The fact that we are getting well out of this and that the EU is getting well out of it is of great importance to Sweden. That is why we need to contribute in different ways to find a solution. I share the view that 750 billion are gigantic figures. We already have 540 billion, as the finance ministers agreed in April. Already there are big bets. We want to get this down, and we're discussing the repayment period.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-415	Mr President, I would like to Our economy depends on the EU and benefits from a single internal market with free movement and more. About 60% of Sweden's exports go to the EU. Sweden is a net contributor to the EU and will of course continue to contribute to the EU's prosperity in the future. But an important part of Sweden's fee is the discount of SEK 6 billion. The Prime Minister mentioned that there are some countries that question it. My question to the Prime Minister is: can we expect the discounts to remain and not be phased out during the budget period 2021 – 2027? I would like to take this opportunity to wish the President, the Prime Minister and everyone else a pleasant summer.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-419	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we agree that we should continue to contribute to this. As I said in my report, it is now in the proposal that the rebates remain, that they are not phased out during this budgetary period. This is of course extremely important to us, because otherwise the next negotiations on X years will start from a much worse position. It has been our message all along that discounts are a prerequisite for an agreement at all, and I think it is starting to sink in. But there are no doubt many countries that are opposed to it, so there will continue to be a discussion and a fight on this. I believe, however, that more and more people realise that this is a fundamental requirement. I wish the same to Robert Halef.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-422	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for the report. It wasn't a negotiation. That is what we suspected right from the start – that it would be another opportunity to point out what was already known. But in his last speech here, the Prime Minister once again said that it will be of great importance to Sweden that the EU emerges well from this crisis. There's a deal. It can also be said that the European Union has a great deal to lose if we do not get out of the negotiations well because confidence in the European Union is now beginning to sink in the population. For example, a survey in Italy showed that two thirds of the Italian population did not think that it was getting anything out of membership of the EU. If we start to get on the track that citizens of EU countries no longer think it is added value to be in the EU, then we will all be losers – all of us. That's why this negotiation is very important. It is no surprise to the Prime Minister that the Liberals think so, as we are the most positive European party in this House. Sometimes it doesn't take so much to be, I feel, because when it comes down to it, you want to be there but not really all the way out. Therefore, the Liberals have reported divergent views on the long-term budget and also on the recovery package. We would like to see a much more proactive and investing attitude from the Swedish government. I noted that Mr Michel was nevertheless quoted as experiencing a growing consensus after this meeting. I wonder if the Prime Minister can share with us what the growing consensus is. Are the four frugals also starting to adjust their position? If so, it would be a welcome innovation for a liberal.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-428	Mr President, I would like to The fact that there was no negotiation may seem a little strange, but a prerequisite for negotiation is that you meet physically. We have not yet been able to do that, but next time we can do it. It'll be in the middle of July. Yes, we think it is important that we get out well, but here you have to ask yourself a few questions. To provide grants now, at this stage, would be to borrow for the first time in order to finance current expenditure. It is a very big change of principle that is done then, and I think it is wrong in substance. In addition, I think you need to think about what to do next if you are going to do this and have a repayment period that will start in 2028 and extend over 30 years. We know that within that time there will be more crises and more unforeseen events. Next time, if this principle has once been broken, we will have to borrow more money to distribute. It's a sloping plane that's not good. I think there's a logic in us helping each other. The EU borrows and receives interest. Although the spread has fallen between the southern countries and Germany, there is one point, because it will be cheaper loans. Then we can help each other and invest in the right things to increase productivity, and then you can pay back. I can understand that logic, but we should be very careful. When it comes to a betting attitude, there is no doubt. We want to bet, and we have written several articles and of course other documents in that area to show that we also intend to bet. But when it comes to loans or grants, we have difficulties. I think it's right to hold the loan part. As far as growing consensus is concerned, I do not know exactly what Mr Michel means, but I think he thinks that everyone is saying that we want to try to find a solution. We can't all sit in each corner and say the same thing every time. Finally, then, we have no budget and no functioning Europe.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-435	Mr President, I would like to I very much hope that, in the end, we will begin to discuss a little more negotiation-wise. The Prime Minister is a good negotiator, have we heard? Of course, it is a new principle that we should borrow for the first time in order to provide subsidies. Liberals do not think that contributions are a good method either. But when we're in a situation that's unique--we thought we had crises in the past, but that's nothing compared to what we have before us--it's also time to look at what other means we have to use. Then grants can be part of the solution. If two thirds of Italy's population already feel that the EU does not provide them with any added value, how could they look at the situation if they became even more indebted and did not get out of this crisis at all? Sometimes you have to look at new ways when you're facing a crisis like this.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-438	Mr President, I would like to Again – we have a unique crisis now; it's true. But it is not certain that this is the last unique situation we have. We can have a new unique situation and a completely different crisis in three, five or ten years. Every time we go back to borrowing money to distribute in grants. I don't think that's right. Sure, Italy has a much higher debt than us. However, the Commission has previously said that the debt ratio is not at a tipping point. The debts are different; you have loans other than ten years ago. Moreover, looking at different regions in different countries, half of Italy's so-called NUTS regions actually have a higher average GDP per capita than the EU. This is therefore also a question of regional policy within each country. The question is whether to provide subsidies that may end up in regions that have a higher level of prosperity than some Swedish regions.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-441	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. I welcome the fact that the Prime Minister is so clear that a prerequisite for an agreement is that we still have the discounts. I think this is what will have the greatest impact on the Swedish membership fee. However much you like the EU, there is still a limit to how much of the cost can be placed on Swedish taxpayers. We also have important reforms ahead of us, both to make Sweden sustainable and to get our own economy going. We have to deal with taxpayers' money carefully. Having said that, it is of course important for the whole of Europe to get back on its feet and at the same time to take the opportunity to build a more resilient and sustainable Europe. It is important for reasons of solidarity, of course, but also for purely selfish reasons. Several people here today have pointed out how dependent we are on the fact that the European economy is also starting so that we can sell our cars and other goods to the rest of Europe. But it is also important for security policy reasons and for us to be able to cope with the climate together. As the Prime Minister has also mentioned, Sweden has already agreed to several measures in this direction. We have agreed to instruments that provide loans to Member States that cannot borrow as cheaply, so that they can maintain systems such as short-term lay-offs and so on – a step that was probably quite large for Sweden anyway. And, as I said, we were net contributors to the EU. Yet sometimes it sounds like we are very cheap and do not want to contribute. I do not really think it is okay for the debate to be that way. Many of the initiatives described in terms of climate, digitalisation and research are close to the heart of us Social Democrats. The problem is that there has not been enough re-priority. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what he thinks the discussion will look like. Will there also be room to discuss what the money will be used for, or will there be a lot of focus on who will pay in the forthcoming negotiations?
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-447	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I share the idea of the discount. This is important. Should the rebates be phased out, we would end up in a situation where, I believe, five countries – but taking it with a small pinch of salt – would account for 75% of the net contribution in the EU. It's untenable. Sweden needs the rebate, and that is what the balance is about. We have to say where the border is, but the EU is important to us – both the internal market and the security perspective, which Åsa Westlund mentions. This is extremely important, and we need to see that perspective. Not least when we are talking more about regionalisation than about globalisation of the world economy, it will be extremely important where the European continent stands. Yes, there will also be a discussion about what. We have the demand that the criteria for allocation must be changed so that they are directed towards what has actually happened in the context of the crisis. In terms of what the Commission thinks it should be linked to the semester, which means that all countries already have programmes for what they should be developing in order to move in the right direction. The Commission is very clear that what we are doing now should go hand in hand with the Green Deal. As I said in some previous post, I feel that the support is getting stronger and stronger there. Some are still opposed, but I feel that the support is so strong that that train is running now, in my opinion. That's the way it has to be, that's all. So yes– there will be a discussion even about this. It is important that we take the opportunity to modernise here too. I think we can be even clearer about what should actually be done to strengthen productivity, competitiveness and all this in a global economy so that we can actually get stronger out of it.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-452	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I also welcome the fact that there is a great deal of support for climate action. I think it is a profit for Sweden that has pushed these issues, as well as digitalisation, research and the rule of law, which has been mentioned here before. We must now hold on to the goal so that we can get this in place. My question is a little practical. When does the Prime Minister think we can have a final deal on the ground? We know that the Swedish discounts depend on that we are finished before the end of the year. But we also know that many of the subsidies to be effective and of high quality must be able to start in more detail during the autumn. At the same time, the Member States are very far from each other, and we are hardly the ones in the most rush to get this in place. But I still want to ask the Prime Minister when he thinks we can get a deal on the ground.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-454	Mr President, I would like to That was the hardest question today. I dare not have any idea of this. As I said, there was a consensus. Everyone understands that this will be very bad if we do not find a solution. The Commission and, above all, the President of the European Council, Mr Michel, are now working hard. You will have bilateral contacts with everyone and will formulate a box that will be able to be on the table by mid-July. We can see that if what we hope will last and we can actually meet physically, we will try to grind as much as possible. But I would guess that it will take at least a few such rounds. I do not believe that the negotiations will end in mid-July. There will surely be another box and perhaps another one; I do not know. But we're all working on it as soon as we can.
i-UVn6Addp5RYKrpbhWxKcCa	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. As we have heard, the countries are still far apart, although a certain consensus is beginning to emerge. We hope that the negotiations will be concluded this summer. Now that it is really starting to contract, it is important that Sweden has several priorities at the same time. It is very important to have a responsible economic policy on which all the parties in Parliament agree. It is good that the four thrifts continue on their common line. However, it is also important that the budget and the recovery package are properly contained. Now we have a unique opportunity to steer funds and efforts to solve the climate crisis and to switch the economy from a linear buying-and-slip economy to a circular economy, which slightly reduces pressure on natural resources such as water and biodiversity. It is very gratifying to hear in the re-report that there is increasing support for a green transition and for the climate, although we are still far from what science actually requires in terms of climate. At the meeting of the EU Board before midsummer, I highlighted the importance of a clear focus on green reconstruction and climate and on earmarking money in the long-term budget for the climate. This was not at the heart of the discussions at this meeting because it was not a negotiation but rather that the Member States reported on their positions. But my question to the Prime Minister is: when does the Prime Minister see that it is time to press for this and also to increase the ambitions in terms of climate and green reconstruction, so that it can increasingly draw closer to what science really requires?
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-461	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Amanda Palmstierna, for the question! I think it is important to have exactly that perspective when it comes to what is to be included in a budget and a recovery package. Then everything is in favour of the climate perspective being there. It is no less important now than when we entered the crisis, and it is actually also a lever for the future economy. I can also note that many people understand that. There were others who opposed this before. I think we have had some success here with our like-minded people. We have also expressed that what we say in Sweden is a minimum, and we would like to see more. So, to the extent that we can see that more people are in favour of it, we are already there. We have said that we want to go further. We think you can go further. I also see difficulties because there are some who are left and do not think that we have any opportunities at all to get to grips with this now. I find that argument hard to understand, but it's there. So we have already taken the position that we want to go further. Of course, if we can bring more people along on that line, we will.
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-465	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I would like to emphasise that it is important to press constantly on this issue and constantly push forward the position. I would also like to highlight democracy and the principles of the rule of law, on which I also feel that there is a great deal of agreement in the Swedish Parliament. It is extremely important that there is respect for the fundamental values of the Union. Now we have seen worrying trends in coronatides, but they have also existed before then. There have been different opinions about how sharp the requirements should be. It is very gratifying that we have achieved success on this issue too. My question to the Prime Minister is: what does the Prime Minister think of the way forward when it comes to reaching such strict criteria that they actually make a real difference, so that there is a difference in relation to the current situation?
i-5d544f8f4ce9ce2e-468	Mr President, I would like to Again: We will press to tighten the climate section if possible. As far as the principles of the rule of law and such matters are concerned, we can see that the Commission's proposals are now taking a step forward. We welcome that. We've been on it, along with several others, that it has to be that way. This must be made clear in the regulatory framework, of course, with regard to both the recovery package and the long-term budget. So it's sharper now. There will still be countries that do not think it should be really so sharp, and they may find some way to deal with this or in a way to complicate it, but we will still lie on. We must be able to look the taxpayer in the eye and show that this is being used in a way that favours the principles of the rule of law, democracy and human rights. We will be on for this.
