i-23b655c413f218bc-5	Madam President, I would like Lorena Delgado Varas has asked me, firstly, whether I believe it is business-like to operate a business which, year after year, reduces its share in the market and which now also needs substantial state aid to survive, and secondly, how this decision relates to the articles of association and whether I intend to make any changes in Swedavia's business. The current pandemic has had a dramatic impact on air travel, and air traffic has decreased sharply both in Sweden and globally. Already before we saw a decrease in flying in Sweden. We are in a situation where the prospects are uncertain, and both reduced flying and the pandemic affect the aviation market in both the short and long term. Under current market conditions, Swedavia has carried out an impact assessment of the continued operation of Bromma airport from the company's mission and business perspective. Swedavia's assessment is that under current market conditions it is not commercially justified to operate Bromma airport further. The impact of Swedavia's assessment is currently being analysed in the Government Office. Swedavia AB is tasked with operating airport operations at the ten airports included in the national base supply of airports decided by the Government. The company also has the task of actively participating in the development of the transport sector within the framework of commercialism and contributing to the achievement of the transport policy objectives decided by the Riksdag. Swedavia may not close or transfer, without the approval of the Government, any of the airports included in the national base supply of airports decided by the Government. We as owners have decided on a market-based return target for the company as a whole, and there is no compensation from the State for operating airport operations. The company's operations are conducted on a commercial basis, and the results between different airports are balanced by redeployment of funds within its own operations. The Government has decided to pay out a capital injection of SEK 2.5 billion to Swedavia under the authorisation of the Riksdag. The capital injection will enable the company to fulfil its business mandate, carry out the necessary investments and maintenance in a state airport network that remains attractive and provide the necessary flexibility to deal with the uncertainty of the aviation market after the coronapandemine. The Government considers that the capital injection can be expected to generate a market return and thus be compatible with the market economy investment principle and not to constitute State aid under the EU legal framework.
i-23b655c413f218bc-10	Madam President, I would like What I can see from the answer given to me by Minister Baylan is that it is not intended to bring the closure of Bromma forward. The Minister of Industry will have to correct me if I have interpreted it wrong. This is the message despite the fact that Swedavia's own report states that closure is now commercially justified, that the consequences of closure are manageable and that it even has advantages for Swedavia to do so. As I lifted in the interpellation, flying from and to Bromma gradually decreased even before the pandemic. Yes, the aviation industry is in crisis, but this happened even before. We saw that people began to opt out of flying and that the train travel increased, so why not give the people what they want? Spend resources and time developing train travel, and plan for a substantial reduction in aviation! Swedavia themselves stated that they do not think Bromma will come back to the same level as before, so why not manage our tax money responsibly and invest in the future? Make the changes that are actually easier to make now! In this way, Region Stockholm would have the opportunity to build 30,000 new homes, create more jobs and get less noise and less emissions. The flights that are still needed are allowed to fly to Arlanda. It's like win-win in this situation. Then we would also use the incredibly complicated situation that has arisen after the pandemic to something positive, where we actually see what needs we have and work on the basis of them.
i-23b655c413f218bc-13	Madam President, I would like The situation we find ourselves in has never been in. We have a situation in which, in principle, we in Sweden have since March been in a global pandemic with all that it means not only in terms of human life and human suffering but also with an impact on our economy and society that we have never seen for this long. If we talk about flight operations specifically, it is clear that in the past we have had some short periods where there have been severe reductions, but that for as long as now – and none of us really know how long it will last – this type of disruption is something new. I believe that the September figures for the major Nordic airlines were somewhere between −85 and −95% in the business. It is clear that aviation infrastructure is also affected by this, with all that it means. The aviation infrastructure in Sweden as well as in many other countries is financed by fees, precisely through flights and air passengers. It's a pretty serious situation. It is a situation where, of course, one should be very careful to think about what we are going to do now. As I explained, we are going in with support, and we are doing so on a market-based basis. We are going in with EUR 2.5 billion to ensure that this activity can continue to be open and develop in the future. We have a rapidly changing situation, but in one respect there seems to be a constant: the political parties seem to have roughly the same perceptions of this activity now as they had before. Those who previously thought that you should close Bromma think that you now have the chance; those who previously thought that you should not do so say instead: Take it easy! I'm the minister in charge of Swedavia. Now we have their impact assessment, which was carried out on our behalf. We asked them to do this because you have to turn every stone in the position we are in. You also have to make your best judgements. Then one should have a humility and say that this is of course quite uncertain assessments – none of us know how long this pandemic is going on. None of us know with certainty how the pandemic and the fairly rapid digitalisation that is now taking place because of the pandemic affect travel in the long term. We must try, with our best judgements, to make the best of taxpayers' money, but also to ensure that we have stable access to aviation infrastructure in a sparsely populated country located in northern Europe that has ambitions to be a global nation. Madam President, I would like What I'm saying is pretty clear. We have now received the report. I think that Swedavia, based on the rather uncertain conditions that exist, has done as good a job as you can imagine. Now we analyse it and take it in, but we also broaden the analysis. It is not just about aviation, it is also about how we are going to build our aviation infrastructure. There are also a number of other issues raised by Lorena Delgado Varas. Then we come to a conclusion. Once we have reached that conclusion, of course, we will return to Parliament.
i-23b655c413f218bc-21	Madam President, I would like The closure of Bromma is nothing new, so those plans must still have been considered earlier. I believe that the economy can be saved by the right investments. This can also be job creation in a different way. Maintaining Bromma doesn't give it, as I see it. It is a little worrying that we are not using the opportunity that exists now, because the Bromma flight practically does not exist right now, to take these steps. I do not think we will be able to do that later. I read Swedavia's annual reports for the last few years and found that Bromma airport has become a less significant part of Swedavia's total passenger numbers. In addition, it is clear that the large part of passengers are business travellers. Minister Baylan mentioned a digitisation strategy. You've put a lot of money into it. You invest in digital skills and so on. We will be the best in the world to use digitalisation to our advantage for competitiveness and environmentally sustainable development. With that framework, and if we look at how the pandemic has changed the situation of workplaces around the country, we can see that the government is investing in more people being able to use digital meetings because it is efficient and good environmental development. At the same time, a large proportion of the travellers to Bromma are business travellers. That part will disappear, because who will come after this period, when we have really implemented digital meetings both in companies and in government agencies, to take the flight to have meetings in Stockholm? I believe that this group will be significantly reduced. You work for digital development but at the same time you don't want to let go of the idea of people taking flights to meetings. That sounds a little wobbly. What are we supposed to be doing? What strategy should we have? How are we going to make these different lines of thought go together? Another issue I would like to raise is democracy and transparency. We appreciate, of course, that the government asked Swedavia to do an analysis, but that we politicians only get a summary, I think is unfortunate. There may of course be information that needs to be protected, but surely we can read a little more than a summary.
i-23b655c413f218bc-29	Madam President, I would like This year feels like one of the longest I've been through – March is really only seven months away, but it feels like an eternity since we had a normal situation. During such dramatic events, it is easy to let yourself be drawn away and draw cross - sure conclusions. What we know from previous very dramatic situations where there have been cross-confident conclusions is that it has proved to be a little premature to draw the m. In one respect, it is quite obvious that aviation will be affected. Which way? Yes, there are slightly different opinions. It is clear that the forced digitalisation we are seeing now will have an impact not only on aviation but on our entire society. Does this mean that any need for business flights, or flights, will cease? No. I think it is wrong to believe this in the country in which we all live. I have had the great privilege of living in a little different places in our country, including up in northern Sweden, which has a very large distance and is sparsely populated. For that part of the country, it is extremely important to have access to both aviation infrastructure and flights. It is about quality of life and the freedom to move around but also about economic perspectives. However, we all agree that future flights cannot look like those of the past. The flight cannot continue to operate as if it were in a bubble. Of course, you also have to change; you cannot continue to vomit huge amounts of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. I feel quite confident that both Swedavia and the company where we are the largest owner, SAS, are on that line. There are still quite major challenges, but changing is the right way forward. Madam President, I would like We ordered an analysis. This analysis is currently under consideration at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. We are taking this together with the other colleagues, because it is not just a question of ownership but also of our infrastructure. As Bromma is part of the basic offering, which is regulated by the government, the Ministry of Infrastructure is of course also involved in this. We'll make it as serious and as good as possible. We will take into account the various societal implications that may arise in this context. When we have done it as seriously and as well as possible with the information available and the uncertainty that exists, we will come back with a message.
i-23b655c413f218bc-35	Madam President, I would like This is not only about how the aviation industry wants it to develop, but also about how the government wants it to develop. It is clear that flying will continue, but not in the same amount. I'm a little worried that you don't understand the opportunity that's opening up now. Only these days we could see an advertising campaign from one of the major airlines where you start flying to Sälen or other parts of the mountains and have tourist packages for this. It's a development we don't want– we don't want flying to start being used in this way even domestic. I can understand that you need to take the flight when it is very long and it is not economic or maybe there are connections to be able to get to Stockholm, for example. But we do not want to see an aviation industry that invests in something that has more environmentally problematic consequences for, for example, the mountains. Sometimes I can feel that you use many terms and figures on the paper to point to a green transition. After all, we want to reduce transport emissions by 70% by 2030, but I do not hear that analysis in the answer I have now received from the Minister for Economic Affairs. I hope that the government will give Swedavia a timetable for the closure of Bromma soon and that we will have to take note of the report, at least a larger part of it.
i-23b655c413f218bc-40	Madam President, I would like Swedavia, like myself, has been in Parliament, not least in the Committee on Economic Affairs, and has presented the impact assessment that we are talking about. With the uncertainty that exists, none of us will know what will happen in six months' time or in two years' time. I think we are all walking around hoping that we will soon overcome the pandemic and all the consequences it has for human life, for our health, for our economy and for the hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions globally, of people who lose their jobs. But we are where we are, and then we simply get from the information we have to make the best judgements. And the best assessments of Swedavia and Bromma Airport are of course done by looking at both the actual airport issue and the aviation infrastructure, but also how closure affects society, what the consequences of one or the other decision are. We will carry out such an analysis in an honest and good manner and then come back with a message and a decision so that we can move forward on this issue. The issue of aviation and its climate impact is much greater than the issue of Bromma. I think everyone is aware of that. The flight has to be changed. It is against this background, Madam President, that we are proposing the introduction of a reduction obligation for aviation, that is to say that by means of biofuels, aviation is gradually being forced to reduce its emissions. It is true that we have a fairly rapid development in electrified flights. There is still a long way to go in the case of passenger flights, but there it is also in the pipeline. Of course there are great challenges. We need the flight today and will need the flight tomorrow. But it has to be another kind of flight, and that's what we're going to work for.
i-23b655c413f218bc-44	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me what initiatives I have taken to get the new simplification policy objectives in place, whether I intend to take initiatives for changing objectives compared to today's and what regulatory simplification policy measures I and the government intend to take. I choose to respond to these interpellations in a context, because they are interrelated. Simplification policy is an important part of enterprise policy. It helps to strengthen Swedish competitiveness and create the conditions for more jobs in more and growing companies. It is therefore also important that the government's positions on the objectives and measures of simplification policy are balanced and well-designed. The government's positions must always be prepared before they are decided. This also applies to the government's renewed simplification policy objectives. The starting points for the preparation work are shown in the budget proposal for 2021. The Government intends to return in the near future with decisions on new objectives for simplification policy that promote Swedish competitiveness and the ability to adapt and innovate. The preparation has begun and is ongoing within the Government Office. In preparing the new objectives, consideration is given to the best alternative formulations of simplification policy objectives. The preparation process will determine how the new objectives should be formulated, which is why it is not possible to answer Tobias Andersson's question at present whether the new objectives will be changed compared to today's. As Minister of Economic Affairs, I have taken a number of measures to reduce the costs and constraints that may result from regulation. During the autumn of 2019 I made the simplification journey, which Tobias Andersson mentions. The Government then commissioned the Swedish Agency for Growth to analyse, compile and concrete the comments received. The Swedish Agency for Growth submitted its report on this assignment in June. The Government Office is now working on the proposals made by the Swedish Agency for Growth. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish Agency for Growth to analyse the overall regulation within the food sector for five years in order to identify possible simplifications and to work with regulatory simplifications through digitalisation, including through the development of Verksamt.se, including Serverat. The Government has also set up an investigation to propose simpler regulatory frameworks for micro-enterprises and modernisations in the Accounting Act, such as simplifying the use of cloud services for accounting and digitising the management of receipts and invoices. This constitutes concrete simplifications that can make it both cheaper and easier for companies to carry out their activities and should be possible to carry out without hindering the supervision of the authorities. Modern and effective licensing processes are also an important issue for the government. The government has therefore recently set up an investigation to review the current system of environmental review. The study will propose measures to achieve a more modern and effective test with a particular focus on facilitating investments that contribute to a green transition. I believe that these various initiatives together will help to reduce the hassle and bring concrete simplifications to many different companies.
i-23b655c413f218bc-53	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer from the Government. Of course, I and the Swedish Democrats are in favour of the initiatives in this area mentioned by the Government. As the Minister for Economic Affairs stressed, we are now debating two different interpellations at the same time, as they touch on the same theme. In order not to confuse it far too much for either me or the Government, I will try to divide the interpellations between my contributions. In this speech, I am therefore going to touch on interpellation 51 on regulatory simplification for industry, and I will come back in future contributions to interpellation 50 on new objectives for simplification policy. During the autumn of 2019 Ibrahim Baylan made several study visits to the country with, among others, traders. The government itself called it a small business tour and a simplification journey for more and growing companies. It has, however, been accused of having mostly been an attempt to get good publicity for the Minister and the government without actually aiming to reduce the regulatory burden that has been known for a long time. This is reinforced by the existence of a series of rules which industry has long criticised but which neither this nor previous governments have acted against. This criticism is not likely to be unknown to the government, which is why concrete measures might have been preferred by business rather than a simplification journey. Nevertheless, I believe that the simplification journey was a good initiative, but at the same time I believe that it must now be followed up with concrete measures based on the input that the Swedish Agency for Growth put together and presented to the government in June this year. On this point it has so far been silent from the government, and when the Government was now given the opportunity to enlighten me and other stakeholders, the answer was only that the Government Office is processing the proposals made by the Swedish Agency for Growth. That is, of course, a good thing, but there are several of the problems that have been pointed out before. They have been an unnecessary regulatory burden and have been known for a long time, probably even for the Minister of Economic Affairs before the simplification journey. Whatever the case, I believe that the Minister for Economic Affairs can at least nuance something. How far has work been done? When can the Riksdag be admitted to the work? Is the government interested in any of the proposals? Have any of the proposals been rejected? I don't know, and neither does the Minister for Economic Affairs. Madam President, I would like You will have to excuse all my questions, but I am of the opinion that Sweden's industry deserves regulatory simplification, and it is both in my interest and in my office to try to push the government forward on these issues. One specific proposal on which I would have liked to hear the Minister for Economic Affairs' opinion is the Swedish Agency for Growth's proposal for an improved regulatory process that will lead to less hassle. For a long time, the Swedish Democrats have been problematizing the current regulatory process and have meant that measures need to be taken to bring about a structural change in this area. We can now note that an increasing number of parties are expressing this type of opinion, which is why one can assume that the pressure on the government will increase. Madam President, I would like Now I may have asked more questions than Ibrahim Baylan can answer in a speech. But the interpellation debate is still young, so I think it'll work out.
i-23b655c413f218bc-61	Madam President, I would like It is not only the interpellation that is young but also Tobias Andersson. Hence, one may forgive his rather carefree attitude toward the situation we are in. As is always the case when you start a term of office, we have a programme with a policy that we want to implement. This is usually expressed not least by the Prime Minister through the Government Declaration one and in various documents that the Government proposes to the Riksdag. But my experience of sitting in three different governments and being a member of the Riksdag for almost 15 years is that things happen, sometimes large and sometimes minor. But it affects, and one must always be prepared to take the necessary measures to make the country work. What happened in March this year has neither Tobias Andersson nor I nor anyone else experienced. The global pandemic has had a major impact on our society and on our planet, with human lives lost, contamination that has spread and led to suffering and enormous consequences for our business community. When we went into this in March, I think we all feared that it could be much worse than we have seen since. There was talk of mass bankruptcies for business and of several hundred thousand more people in unemployment. I will honestly say that we put everything else aside at the Ministry of Industry to take on this huge challenge. We worked day and night to develop measures to mitigate the effects on Swedish business and to save Swedish jobs. According to Konjunkturinstitutet, we thus saved several hundred thousand Swedish jobs. We have presented more than a dozen additional budgets, and we have put forward programmes covering 600 – 700 billion of taxpayers' money in direct support and in various types of guarantees and credits. We will continue to focus on this. Why? Because we have to stand together in a very difficult situation. I think you should have some humility. The accusations I hear from Tobias Andersson I have only heard from the Swedish Democrats, but even the Swedish Democrats should at this point have a degree of humility because we are in a difficult position. The programmes we have for both business development and simplification will continue to work with, but everyone must realise that this year the fight against pandemic effects is number one. And it will continue to be so, for it is not yet over. We had all hoped to be able to say that the risk is now gone and that we will not have to see mass bankruptcies and more mass unemployment, but this can neither I, Tobias Andersson nor anyone else promise. Yes, we will continue to work on the development of new objectives and we will continue to work on the simplification journey. However, number one will be to continue to support Swedish companies and save Swedish jobs in the pandemic that is still ongoing.
i-23b655c413f218bc-72	Madam President, I would like I pay attention to the Minister's age discrimination. I personally would never blame the Minister's lack of commitment and meekness on his age. I think there are other factors behind this. I am therefore in favour of this kind of rhetoric in Parliament's Chamber. I would have liked to have debated the various proposals of the Swedish Agency for Growth in more detail, not least the proposals for measures that are already part of the Swedish Democrats' policy, for example regarding hotel permits and a simplified regulatory process – or for that matter our other proposals in this area, for example, concerning an implementing council similar to the Danish and legal requirements for ex post payment of supervisory fees. However, knowing that time is limited, as promised, I intend to move on to interpellation 50 on new objectives for simplification policy. I mentioned in the interpellation text how I, other opposition politicians, business organisations and additional stakeholders were surprised when the government presented its budget proposal – this because we expected to see the new objectives of simplification policy in Category 24 Enterprise. However, these were not found. Instead, the government stated that it intended to come back in the near future with decisions on new simplification policy objectives and that the current targets will govern the government's work in this area until new targets are in place. My written question as to when and how the Minister intends to return to Parliament only answered the Minister by emphasising that work is under way at the Government Office. In reply to my interpellation, the Minister for Economic Affairs is insisting on not providing any further information on the work in this area. Madam President, I would like I have no doubt that work is going on but, at the same time, cannot fail to reflect on the fact that there is some time pressure given that the current targets expire at the turn of the year, as the Minister himself emphasised. Time pressure is exacerbated by the absence of new objectives for simplification policy in the proposal list. Why the government has chosen to deviate from practice by not presenting the new objectives in the budget bill also seems unclear. Has it not been possible to reach agreement between the January parties? What's taking so long? I do not know, Madam President, but I hope that the Minister for Economic Affairs will be able to give a somewhat more reassuring answer than so far. The reason why I ask is that today's goal leaves some other things to be desired, why I want to make sure that the new ones are getting better and really generate regulatory simplification that strengthens the business community – this in order to put an end to today's running costs of regulation, bureaucracy and administration. On this theme, I would like to explicitly point out the need to see the regulatory framework as an important part of Sweden's competitiveness. That is why it is natural for us to measure ourselves against comparable countries, for example by seeing how cost developments stand against the EU average. Can the Minister of Economic Affairs answer whether this kind of benchmarking vis-à-vis other States will be reflected in the proposed simplification policy objectives? Would the Minister of Economic Affairs consider working towards permanent simplification by allowing the Swedish Agency for Growth to measure annually how companies feel that the regulatory framework promotes or inhibits growth and includes it in the simplification policy objectives?
i-23b655c413f218bc-82	Madam President, I would like I have the deepest respect for the parliamentary scrutiny power, and there both written questions and interpellations are an important tool. There is a danger of having written questions and speeches, and that is that, although you get answers to your question, you keep asking for the same thing. But I'd be happy to answer again. Why? Well, there's a pandemic going on, and it's got to go ahead of everything else. Why have we not followed practice? Yes, from March onwards it has been an exceptional year. It has never happened that a government has tabled so many amending budgets in Parliament, and each amending budget has, of course, demanded a rather large contribution from the Government Office. I already replied in my first speech that priority has been to combat the effects of the pandemic. This has been a priority because we have wanted to save Swedish companies and jobs, and we will continue to do so. I think that anyone who somehow looks at reality beyond political rhetoric and the political game probably thinks that is the right priority. I know that the business community does, because I am in close dialogue with the business community. Madam President, I would like Yes, simplification policy is important. It is against this background that I took the initiative last year, and it is against that background that I have asked a number of our authorities to put forward concrete proposals. These we will be able to proceed with, and we are preparing them right now in the Government Office. They don't just touch the Ministry of Enterprise, they touch several departments, and that's how it should be. When we are done with the preparation, we will both make proposals for concrete changes to the business community and come back to Parliament, because we will of course have to come back with new goals. Why has this not happened? Because we've been fighting the pandemic. It's been number one, it's been number two and it's been number three. It will continue to be, because we have not got out of the pandemic, and its major impact on Swedish business is unfortunately not over.
i-23b655c413f218bc-88	Madam President, I would like In purely rhetorical terms, I think that both I and the Minister for Enterprise and Industry see the need to make things easier for business, not least because of the pandemic that exists. That is precisely why I am asking the questions, and that is where I believe the Minister for Economic Affairs is not giving satisfactory answers. It is blamed that it has not been possible to follow practice with new simplification policy objectives and that it has fallen behind in the regulatory simplification work as a consequence of the pandemic. I think that because of the pandemic we must speed up and that because of the pandemic we must do everything in our power to facilitate Swedish business through, among other things, regulatory simplification. Structural changes in the regulatory process have been called for from business organisations. That this would be something that the business community thinks we can take after the pandemic is not correct. On the contrary, it is now possible for us to implement the type of structural change in this area that can allow for a faster recovery and restart following the most drastic impact of the pandemic on business. It is against this background that I believe the Minister for Economic Affairs should give an opinion on the proposals that have been made. We have seen how the Swedish Agency for Growth has presented a number of concrete proposals that we could have worked relatively smoothly to start implementing immediately so that they are in place when we are going to recover in real life. Madam President, I would like I still believe that the Minister for Economic Affairs avoids answering the question when it comes to a couple of proposals for reformulations or new simplification policy objectives. I would like to hear the Minister for Economic Affairs' view on benchmarking, for example, with regard to the regulatory simplification work of other states, as well as on commissioning the Swedish Agency for Growth to regularly submit comments on the simplification work. I believe that there would have been a demand for action, and I am convinced that the Minister has an opinion on the matter.
i-23b655c413f218bc-93	Madam President, I would like I believe that the business community and also the Parliament are much more concerned about seeing proposals rather than just hearing my views. We are working on the proposals, and when they are ready we will present them both to the business community and to the Riksdag. I believe that this will happen in the near future. Madam President, I would like Of course, you can always wish you could do everything. Although we have great resources in the Government Office, they are limited, and once you sit there with responsibility, you have to prioritise. And the priority for the government has been to save Swedish companies and Swedish jobs. We have done this by presenting a large number of additional budgets with support for the Swedish business community and Swedish employees. We will continue to do so if necessary. Let me take an example of how this has really gone a long way. During the time that I have been Minister of Economic Affairs, we have worked intensively with, for example, the tourism industry to develop a long-term tourism strategy for ten years and to strengthen an already fairly strong trend for the Swedish tourism industry, which is developing into a basic industry with a high level of employment in our country. The strategy was ready in March, and the idea was that we would take a decision on it in the second week of March. We have not done this for a very simple reason: a pandemic struck that completely changed the conditions for both the tourism industry and our country and our planet. This does not mean that we have let go of the idea that we should have a tourism strategy, but we have to work on what is happening during the pandemic because it has an enormous impact. I would say this: of course we agree that we need to make changes and improvements, but it is also important to take in reality. And the reality right now is that it is the pandemic and the fight against it that is number one.
i-23b655c413f218bc-98	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I intend to take measures to reduce the vehicle tax on diesel powered vehicles with a Euro 6D Temp or newer cleaning class. The Swedish Parliament has stated that Sweden will not have net greenhouse gas emissions in 2045 and that the greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport, excluding flights, will decrease by 70 per cent by 2030 compared to 2010. The government estimates that the net zero target means that greenhouse gas emissions from several sectors, including the transport sector, will in principle need to be zero by 2045. In order to achieve the target, the conversion to a fossil-independent vehicle fleet needs to be accelerated, and for that to take place the reduction obligation and the CO2 tax are key instruments. BONUS – the Malus system is a complementary instrument aimed at increasing the proportion of environmentally friendly light vehicles in new car sales. Newly produced vehicles with no or low CO2 emissions are rewarded with bonuses at the time of purchase while newly produced vehicles with high CO2 emissions receive increased vehicle tax during the first three years of traffic. There is reason to exempt certain diesel vehicles from tax based on CO2 emissions, but they should continue to be included in the bonus – the Malus system.
i-23b655c413f218bc-102	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We have work to do to reduce CO2 emissions. There are different ways to tackle the problem. What it is really about is to minimise emissions in relation to the work to be done. There are a couple of things in the answer that I would like to move on with. It states that we will decrease by 70% by 2030 compared to 2010. That is a good thing, but I also asked the question how it is that we do not use a technology that is demonstrably reducing emissions. It's the compression-ignition engine I'm talking about. With the new purification technology, there are no problems with nitrogen oxides, which the diesel had as a consequence in the past. The compression-ignition engine is the most efficient way to move a vehicle in terms of combustion technology. It has superior efficiency. The only engine that exceeds the compression-ignition engine is the electric one. The problem is to store the energy and have it with you, if it is rechargeable cars we are talking about, or to be able to power the vehicle directly from the road in one way or another. Whether it is inductive or via a contact line does not matter. But we don't have that technology in place. In our motion, the Swedish Democrats have stated that we want to develop the electric drive for heavy vehicles but also light vehicles in the form of being able to drive the vehicle directly on the road by means of electric energy or having charging in the vehicle itself. But we also see other solutions for driving vehicles, such as hydrogen. During the 2030 journey, we need to grasp all straws in order to reduce emissions. There is a technology there today that is demonstrably effective. I'm from the haulage industry, and I'm trained at YKB. What it is all about is getting a vehicle to move a given distance with a given load and consuming as little fuel as possible. They work very hard in the haulage industry to minimise the consequences of emissions. The diesel engine is currently the only option to achieve the targets. But then it is important to get that engine to work as efficiently as possible. You can look at the possibilities offered by this type of combustion technology. Reducing consumption by 10 percent means saving 3,500 litres a year on a normal combination. 3,500 liters less fuel is thus burned. Every litre that is not fired is an advantage for the climate. For me, therefore, it is incomprehensible that the government is not grasping all variants in order to achieve the climate targets, but instead imposing a tax on a vehicle that is demonstrably having extremely low emissions of CO2 but also on other harmful substances that affect man. I would like to hear a little bit from the Government how you reason when you let go of this opportunity.
i-23b655c413f218bc-111	Madam President, I would like Vehicle governance takes place through two roads. One is fuel taxes and the other is vehicle taxes. There we have clear instruments, both in terms of fuel taxation, the reduction obligation, where we are now raising ambitions, and in terms of vehicle tax. In the vehicle tax we have both the basic vehicle tax based on how much carbon dioxide a car emits and the bonus – malus paid during the first three years. The starting point for bonus – malus is how much carbon dioxide a car emits. It seems that bonus – malus has had a great steering effect, as we see that electricity seems to have made a difference in terms of the proportion of newly purchased cars. Of the new cars now sold are many electric cars. That's good. Since most of us do not buy new cars but used cars, it is good that it will now come out used electric cars on the market. The second part concerns fuel itself and fuel taxation. There we have CO2 taxation on fuel, and we have received a new state aid approval from the EU so that we can now have tax reductions on climate-smart fuels, such as biofuels. That is something we from the Swedish Government have fought hard for in Brussels. In addition, we have the new decision in the budget proposal on the new reduction obligation, which means that everyone who tanks both petrol and diesel will have biofuels in the tank to a greater and greater extent. I think it is a fantastic development that even those of us who have older cars and tanks will have more and more climate-smart fuel in the tank without us having to make any active decisions. That's what's going to run out of the pump. This also makes us less dependent on what happens to the global price of oil and can use more of Swedish produced biofuels. There's something I'm looking forward to.
i-23b655c413f218bc-114	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I get to say as I usually say when I hold my courses: The best fuel is what never burns. Then it is that electricity also has an impact. If we can also reduce the consumption of electricity to move vehicles, that is a good thing. If you look at what it looks like, we have 4 887 904 passenger cars in traffic in Sweden. So they are attached, as it is called. Then there are a number of vehicles that are decommissioned but are used in any case. But we can stick to cars that are on and active in traffic. 40% of these vehicles are older than 11 years. It's 2,150,678 cars. The 2030 Secretariat has a page called Bilberget. Looking at that side, it turns out that if we could only reduce the average age of the Swedish car fleet from 18 years, as it is today, to 11 years, we would reduce emissions by 400 000 tonnes of carbon dioxide. Then we are not talking about a switch to another fuel, but just about a renewal of the car fleet. Emissions would thus be reduced by 400 000 tonnes per year. This corresponds to what the domestic aircraft released in 2017. That's a considerable amount. If we also use new technology in the form of electricity, hydrogen and so on, when renewing the car fleet, the effect will be even greater. But it will take quite a few years before the electricity, so to speak, is rolled out and gives real effect. Then you have to do something else during the journey. The number of newly registered rechargeable passenger cars from January to September this year – those are fresh statistics – was 28,879. This is an increase of 76% compared to the same period last year. It's a fantastic increase. But in the number of vehicles it is not very much. If we consider that this increase would be the same throughout the year, it would take 56 years to replace the older part of the car park. If we were to double this, it would take 28 years to replace the car park. We don't have that time. Now the share of newly registered electric cars is likely to increase. Nevertheless, we are talking about a number of years ahead of time, and we can actually have an effect here and now directly by reducing CO2 emissions. But then it must also be possible for people to buy the cars that offer this opportunity. At present, the tax is far too high. It makes people hesitate to change cars. We do not then get the rate of exchange of the older car park as we wish. That's why we're going to have to deal with old cars with lower emission performance. Then we won't reach the targets. It will be counterproductive with the high tax. Here the government must rethink and make sure to grasp every straw in order to achieve results. The important thing must be the goal, so that we get to where we have decided.
i-23b655c413f218bc-123	Madam President, I would like Of course, we want to achieve the goal, and the government's assessment is that we best achieve the goal by having this bonus – the malus system combined with the ordinary vehicle tax which is also carbon-based – the fact that we are now increasing the reduction obligation and having a carbon tax on the fuel that is fossil. I share the view that it is an important part of renewing the car fleet. It is therefore also important that the cars bought are now environmentally friendly. It's only 10 years until 2030. That is why it is a bonus – the Malus system that we have today is important. You don't have to buy a car that has a malus. The aim of all of this is for those who buy new cars to buy cars that give them a bonus instead, namely environmentally friendly cars that will enable us to reach the goal by 2030. I think we can achieve this better by getting people to buy the good cars than by lowering taxes on those cars that are not quite as good.
i-23b655c413f218bc-125	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. The way we get to the goal is a little bit different. I looked at the Volvo website yesterday. It shows that the cheapest V60 model which is charge hybrid costs 499 000 SEK. It is Volvo's list price on this car. For an ordinary family, there is a lot of money, and most people refrain from investing in a car that is so expensive. If I want a pure electric car from Volvo, the cheapest option is SEK 699 000. What family of children can afford to buy such a vehicle? This means that the development of renewal of the car fleet is slowed down. This, in turn, means that we do not achieve the objectives of reducing CO2 emissions. The 2030 Secretariat has a page where you can work with different measures and see what the effect is. Only by reducing the average age of the car fleet from 18 to 11 years will emissions be reduced by 400 000 tonnes. It is a fantastic development, without actually doing anything other than renewing the car park. If we can then get more electric cars, hydrogen or anything else, it's great, but we have to take out the compass direction and reach the goal. The government doesn't do that at the moment. If you look at the registration numbers, you can see that they are far too low. Although the percentage of vehicles registered is high, the number of vehicles is far too low. It's going too slow.
i-23b655c413f218bc-130	Madam President, I would like Let me start by saying that few families with children buy new cars. Of course, what is important for the vast majority of us who buy second-hand cars is that there are environmentally friendly cars that come onto the second-hand market. It is also one of the purposes of the bonus – the Malus system. Those who choose to buy a petrol - leaking, CO2 emission, often expensive car have to pay a large malus. On the other hand, if you buy an environmentally friendly car, you will receive a bonus, a special support to buy it. There are also significantly cheaper cars that can get a bonus. However, it is a bit difficult to understand how the Swedish Democrats actually get their politics together if they think that we really should achieve the goals. Instead, in the Swedish Democrats' budget motion, they want to reduce the driving forces to drive less and have more biofuels in the tank – partly by wanting to back into the future by making it cheaper to release carbon dioxide, partly by saying no to the reduction obligation. The last one is very difficult to understand. The aim of the reduction obligation is that everyone, including us who drive old cars, should be able to drive on biofuels, which can often be produced in Sweden using the Swedish natural resources from the forest. Instead, they want us to remain dependent on oil coming from the Middle East. It's hard to understand. Here is a fantastic opportunity for us in Sweden to create jobs all over the country, while at the same time thinking about environmentally friendly biofuels. The Swedish Democrats say no to that.
i-23b655c413f218bc-133	Madam President, I would like Roger Hedlund has asked me whether I intend to act in favour of the large group of young people who are outside the housing market. I would like to start by saying that I share Roger Hedlund's concern about the situation of young people in the housing market. Questions about young people's entry into the housing market are a priority for the government, and this concerns both the owned and leased stock. Finansinspektionen has noted that amortisation requirements have contributed to new mortgage holders now amortising more, borrowing less and buying less expensive housing than if the measures were not implemented. The increased amortisation requirement has also reduced the number of new mortgage borrowers with large loans in relation to their income and led to fewer vulnerable households. Furthermore, the amortisation culture that has been established in recent years, together with the mortgage ceiling, has helped to strengthen the economic resilience of h ustains in the context of economic downturns. Nevertheless, it is appropriate to identify the conditions for first-time purchasers in different parts of the country and the extent to which the exemption from the amortisation requirement for buyers of newly produced dwellings is used by creditors and the reasons for it. A special investigator has been tasked with identifying this within the framework of the study "Socially sustainable housing supply". For many people who are going to establish themselves on the housing market, it is often appropriate to rent a dwelling. In accordance with the January agreement, the government has reformed investment support for rental apartments. The investment aid has been granted for some 36 000 dwellings, of which nearly 6 000 are housing for students. The flats built with the investment aid generally have lower rents than new production rents in general. Every eighth apartment produced by means of investment aid shall be allocated to either social contracts or young adults up to and including 30 years of age.
i-23b655c413f218bc-138	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer from the Government. Today we are discussing the possibility for young people to have access to housing. If we look at the current situation, we can see that Boverket has presented figures that 640 000 new homes need to be built over the next ten years. This means at least 64 000 a year, even if you would like more in the first few years to get some sort of balance on the housing market. At the same time, we see that the forecast for the number of dwellings started in 2021 is 42 500. It is therefore not even close to achieving the objectives that need to be achieved in order to achieve a balance in the housing market. For this year, 2020, the forecast is that we will end up at about 48 000 homes started. It is therefore far behind the prospect of catching up on the housing market. Started dwellings will decrease by 9 per cent in 2020 and by a further 11 per cent in 2021. At the same time, we have seen that the Tenant Association's 2019 survey shows that 27 per cent of young people between the ages of 20 and 27 live at home. This is a figure that has increased from 1997, when 15 percent still lived at home with their parents. This is involuntary housing, as the survey also shows that 85 per cent of the 238 000 young people at home want to leave home. There is therefore a great interest, of course, in getting your own home. However, we do not see any major reforms from the government to make this possible for young people. This could have major consequences. You may have to turn down the job you are offered in a place of residence where you are not able to move, or to study. In Bolund's response that we have now received, it is investment support that should be some kind of rescue in this situation. At the same time, we know that many of these homes would probably be built anyway. So it would make no difference. We are talking about 6,000 homes per year in the last six years because of investment aid. There is nothing that can save the situation we see on the housing market, where the number of homes that start up does not correspond to the need. The answer also refers to an investigation that will only come in one year's time and may provide answers to certain questions. Until then, however, it is a year, and that investigation has also led directives not to come up with any cost-driven proposals. Then you wonder how much can actually be constructive in such an investigation. We can also note that the second amortisation requirement has hit very hard on young people who might want to buy their home. Above all, it has meant that these people have a very weak position in the housing market. We are talking about strengthening financial stability in society, but at the same time we must also look at what the alternative is. Today, the government spends billions on investment aid which, at the same time, becomes a burden on the state. Where is it, in fact, that financial stability is being put? At least it has not been possible for more young people to have their own home, and that is what I am asking for in my interpellation. What exactly is the answer? These 6,000 homes that were to be built anyway, in my opinion, are not the answer to how more young people will be given the opportunity to have a home.
i-23b655c413f218bc-148	Madam President, I would like In his speech, Roger Hedlund devotes a great deal to statements that seem to be very little substantiated. In my opinion, this is very, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, rather than actually, very supportive of numbers. Roger Hedlund also misses, or perhaps does not want to admit, that during the government that I represent, much more housing has been built than during any previous government in the last 30 years. It is because we have an active housing policy in which we are making great efforts to get building up. What Roger Hedlund says about these homes now being built with investment aid being built anyway is a lie. There are many facts that support the fact that it is actually a mere invention. For example, the Swedish Municipalities and Regions have assessed the matter and asked those who build these homes about it. They clearly say that it had not been built with the rents that are now coming out, it had not been built with the energy efficiency that is now required to receive investment aid and it had not been built close to the number of homes that are now coming onto the market. There are also other ways to verify this. For example, if you look at new construction, you can see that what has been lost in recent years, such as now under the coronapdemine, is right-of-occupancy construction and not tenancy construction. There, construction is kept up to a very high level. It is because there is an active housing policy and investment aid that means that homes, apartments, which not least young people can afford to ask for. In addition, we have now made changes that will allow one eighth of these homes to be dedicated specifically to social needs or to young people under the age of 30. So it will be clear that it is young people who benefit from these homes. It is important that we make many efforts. The challenges of the housing market are not solved by a single alexander hem, but by many things. Without an active housing policy, we would never be able to match demand to supply. I am proud that we have built much more than any previous government, Social Democratic or bourgeois, has done in recent decades. Investment support now enables us to build and increase the pace of construction. We should remember that one reason why there have not been enough housing built with investment aid is that a budget from the Moderates, which the Swedish Democrats supported, went through. There, investment aid was simply slaughtered, which meant that it could not be paid out. To stand and complain that not enough apartments have been built while actively voting in parliament to stop investment support is a bit strange, Roger Hedlund. We have also made efforts for faster handling of matters and made sure that we build more student apartments, including by commissioning Akademiska Hus to build. We improve competition in the construction market by providing active information to foreign developers who want to establish themselves on the Swedish construction market. We have abolished interest on the amount of the deferral when moving to increase mobility in the housing market. We have increased the construction area you can build without having a building permit from 25 to 30 square meters. This also means that this type of construction is now starting at a higher rate. We are also engaged in an active dialogue, not least through building talks with the actors in the housing market, to ensure that together we can dissolve the knots that exist. Roger Hedlund stands here in Parliament's speaker's chair and claims that the solution to housing market problems would be to scale down active housing policy, thus removing housing policy reforms, and that is a very difficult explanation. We have tried hand-off housing policy for many years, and this has led to a total underinvestment in housing.
i-23b655c413f218bc-157	Madam President, I would like When it comes to increased housing construction, I can give you that it looks statistically like that, Per Bolund. But who pays for this increase? And who's moving into these homes? We have received a residence law that guarantees new arrivals a dwelling on the housing market. It is, of course, the municipalities that are forced to organise these dwellings, and it is the municipalities that have been forced to build them. But who then pays for this? When you don't have a job, you go for support instead. This is, of course, an element 22 with increased costs in society. At the same time, it is also the case that when we have a housing shortage in the housing market, you have to enter the purchased market, although you may not always want it or have those opportunities. It is clear that this also affects housing construction. Of course, it is not entirely possible to ignore the fact that we have had a completely different business cycle since the government of which the Government is a member took office. Of course, these things affect. But what the government does not mention at the same time is that combined with this investment investment initiative – and I and many others believe that these homes would still be built – they want to introduce market rents. There is the residence law, as I mentioned earlier, and there is a desire for a substantial increase in migration. We know that the Green Party is pushing hard in the government to maintain a high level of migration. Looking at the figures on what has been built in recent years, we see that we are not getting more housing as the population increases, but rather going the other way. This active housing policy that Per Bolund is talking about here in Parliament is not so active in practice. It will be a deficit rather than a surplus of housing. We have had a housing shortage for a very long time, and we need a balance in the housing market. Then we cannot continue with this migration policy or housing policy of the government. We believe that it is extremely important to remove the second amortisation requirement in order for young people to have an opportunity to enter the housing market. It is above all that requirement that young people today are not able to take out a mortgage and buy a home. Instead, it has led to the possibility of having to take out a Blanco loan that is much worse than the loans offered before the second amortisation requirement was introduced or of being forced into secondary housing, perhaps even black contracts, which are very expensive. That is hardly the way we want to go about housing policy. This creates increased vulnerability for those who need housing in Sweden today. For those young people who need to go in with a 7 per cent surplus and then a 3 per cent amortisation requirement that the government has added, it is of course not very easy to get the housing calculation together. The Swedish Democrats believe that a housing loan for young people is needed here. There is a need for an opportunity to introduce a loan that could be structured in a similar way to the current CSN. It would provide an opportunity for young people to actually buy their first home. It is an investment that is best made at a young age to become a good investment in the long term. It is also an opportunity to get such a rent that you can enter the housing market and make your first purchase. Madam President, I would like My question to the Government is: When do we get a housing loan for young people?
i-23b655c413f218bc-166	Madam President, I would like I was just waiting for Roger Hedlund to come back to his favourite area and Sweden's democrats, i.e. migration. In the world of Sweden's democrats, it seems that all the problems that exist at all always have to do with the issue of migration. And here it is, of course. On paper, the interpellation is about the situation of young people, but it turns out that it is not really the young people you care about but that you try to limit migration as usual. That is what is always the purpose of everything the Swedish Democrats do in this room, it seems. Otherwise, Roger Hedlund's speculations were not very substantiated by pure inaccuracies. For example, linking amortisation requirements to blanco loans is not justified. If you want to go on facts instead of speculation, you can look at Finansinspektionen's annual evaluation of the mortgage market. There you can see that the proportion of young people among borrowers has actually risen. In 2012, the share of borrowers under 30 who took out mortgages was 10 per cent, and now it is 20 per cent. It can be noted that it has not on average become more difficult for a young person to buy a home and take out a loan. However, we can see that the amortisation requirements have had an effect: you borrow a little less and you buy a little cheaper. Perhaps this is what distinguishes me and the Green Party from Roger Hedlund and the Swedish Democrats. Not only are we satisfied that a young person should be able to buy a home, but we want him to be able to buy and also keep his home even when he finds himself in an economic crisis, for example, or when he or she is affected by illness or unemployment in the household. We know that the rules we have introduced have made a difference. We have got a healthy amortisation culture in Sweden, unlike what it looked like before I took office and Sweden really stuck out like a country where they borrowed but did not amortise their debts. Now we have introduced the amortisation requirements. As a result, households who have bought homes have been able to pay off their loans. It has built up a buffer in its household economy that many households are extremely happy about now that we have been collectively affected by the pandemic and the economic effects of it. It works in several ways. Households get margins when they have lower loans to pay off. Now during the Corona crisis, Finansinspektionen has also made an exception for amortisation requirements because, in this particular type of extraordinary situation, there is flexibility to allow more room for households in economically difficult times. It is simply not consistent with the truth that the proportion of young borrowers has decreased. It is 20 percent, which it has been doing since 2016. It is thus an increase compared to what it looked like during the previous government in 2012. We know that young people's position in the housing market is difficult. It's been a long time. Many other factors also play a role, not least house prices. We know that house prices have changed at a completely different rate than before I took office as Minister of Finance and before the Green Party took over the Ministry of Housing. At that time, housing prices were almost flashing in our metropolitan areas. They increased by 10 to 15 per cent per year. If it is something that closes a young person out of buying a dwelling, it is that house prices go up by 15 per cent while wages go up by only a few percentage points each year. The gap in order to buy a dwelling is getting bigger and bigger. With the Swedish Democrats' song-go policy, the effect would be precisely the one, that is to say that it would be less built, that we would get runaway housing prices and that young people would find it increasingly difficult to buy a home.
i-23b655c413f218bc-175	Madam President, I would like Yes, the Swedish Democrats talk a lot about migration policy. Very much of the social costs are also attributed to migration policy. At the same time, Bolund can only say that the Green Party also talks a lot about migration policy. But they argue the opposite: that migration creates growth and leads to a fine development in society. It is a view of fine development that I cannot quite agree with the Minister for Housing. With regard to the responses given by the Government in the debate, I hear a lot about financial stability. But I don't hear much about what you really want to do to increase opportunities for young people to get a place to live. As far as financial stability is concerned, I can remind Mr Bolund that the Swedish Democrats were the first in this House to pursue the issue of an amortisation requirement. It's been good. Financial stability is important. However, with the second amortisation requirement, it is more the other way round when it comes to the possibility of housing, to create the conditions for young people to enter the housing market and, in the long term, to create financial stability in their own private economy. When we talk about sleazy house prices and the like, I think that the Swedish democrats' proposal to gradually phase out the interest deduction, by 1% per year, would have a better effect on house prices. Rather, the second amortisation requirement completely excludes young people from the housing market in particular. The Swedish Democrats also suggest that a model of tax-deductible housing should be investigated and looked at. It would encourage saving for your home but also bring in the idea of saving. Combined with a favourable housing loan for young people, this would allow young people to enter the housing market. However, I feel that I am not really getting answers from the Minister for Housing in this area. ( FIRST VICE TALMANN: I would like to remind you that we use both first and last names when addressing each other in this House. )
i-23b655c413f218bc-181	Madam President, I would like It has been an enlightening discussion, which turned out to be less about housing policy and more about immigration, as it often happens when you debate with the Swedish Democrats. But it has also been highlighted that we, with the policy of the Swedish Democrats, would come back to an unhealthy amortisation culture where we once again take loans but should not be as eager to pay them back. We would therefore go back to a model that built up great risks in the Swedish economy, but not only in the Swedish economy but also for the individual households. I am old enough to remember the 1990s crisis when that particular situation arose. People had taken very large loans to buy homes. At the same time, Sweden was in an economic crisis. People lost their jobs, could not pay their mortgage payments and interest rates, and had to sell in a declining housing market where prices fell. So the loans were kept, but not with the dwelling. There are people in Sweden who are still suffering because of that kind of policy. It is an irresponsible policy that I could never stand to defend in this House. Unfortunately, however, this is the kind of policy that the Swedish Democrats are now advocating. We do, however, have an active housing policy. We make sure to use resources to find out what is most needed, i.e. rental apartments with a reasonable rent level. So far, we have built more than 36,000 of them. In the budget we have now set aside money to increase the pace of construction. There will be some 7 000 additional housing per year. However, it is important to recall that the rental market complements the purchased stock on the housing market. You have to see it in its entirety. The Swedish Democrats cannot do that. It is also clear that young people can still take out loans. You can buy a home in today's Sweden. According to the surveys available, 95 per cent of those who bought a dwelling in 2015 could now buy a dwelling with the requirements of the government. But we also make demands that make it a buffer in the economy of households and society.
i-23b655c413f218bc-188	Madam President, I would like Lorena Delgado Varas has asked me whether the Swedish Government will raise the issue of political prisoners with the Chilean Government and demand their release. She has also asked whether Sweden will require the Chilean Government to respect the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child by releasing imprisoned children and giving them redress. We have noted and are concerned about data on arbitrary detentions in Chile, including of minors. Over the past year, Sweden has repeatedly raised issues of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in bilateral contacts with the Chilean Government. We have recently and specifically raised issues of arbitrary detention, including of minors. In the EU's human rights dialogue with the Chilean Government, Sweden's ambassador to Chile specifically addressed the situation of detainees. We have also made a number of public statements about the situation in the country in order to underline the importance of full respect for human rights. The Swedish Government expects human rights to be respected in all circumstances and intends to remain a strong voice and actor for the rights of the child. This position drives the government with the utmost conviction in all bilateral contacts with other countries, within the EU, the UN and other multilateral contexts. Chile is a democratic rule of law, and we expect the government to safeguard the rule of law, including the right to have criminal charges investigated and tried in court within a reasonable time. We expect to ensure that detention is carried out only on a legal basis, in accordance with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which Chile has ratified. We also expect the Chilean Government to ensure that no child is illegally or arbitrarily deprived of his or her freedom, under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which Chile has also ratified. At the end of the year, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs intends to publish a report on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Chile. It will also address the right to freedom and personal security and the rights of the child.
i-23b655c413f218bc-193	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. However, I am deeply disappointed that the Minister continues to call Chile a democratic rule of law. The truth is that Chile's prisons contain more than 2 500 political prisoners who have not received or will receive a fair sentence. How about ten years for taking part in protests? The crimes are not investigated, the judges are unreasonable and the evidence is legally insecure. At the same time, state perpetrators go free. In Chile, the state has participated in the creation of torture centres and the murder, rape and maiming of demonstrators. They now have children as political prisoners. How can a feminist democratic government call a state a democratic rule of law when it acts like this against its people?
i-23b655c413f218bc-195	Madam President, I would like Lorena Delgado Varas believes that Sweden does not do enough or is sufficiently clear in its contacts with the Chilean government. I would argue that this is not true. We in Sweden have a tradition of an open and constructive dialogue with our international partners. The government regularly addresses the issue of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in our bilateral relations with Chile. We are not afraid to be clear on fundamental principles and values. This is not something that has changed in recent years, quite the contrary. Like Lorena Delgado Varas, we have noted the worrying information in reports from, among others, the UN, Amnesty and Human Rights Watch. They criticise the use of violence by Chilean police during the demonstrations at the end of last year. They point out that there have been serious violations of human rights. That is why we have repeatedly raised the issue of human rights, democracy and the rule of law with Chilean government representatives, including President Piñera, the Minister for Justice and the Secretary of State for Human Rights. Like Lorena Delgado Varas, we have also taken note of the information on arbitrary detentions in Chile, including of minors. For this reason, we have specifically discussed these issues with Chilean government representatives, by 8 October of this year at the latest. So it was only a few weeks ago. At that time, Sweden's ambassador to Chile participated in the EU's human rights dialogue with the Chilean Government. The issue of arbitrary detention of minors, among others, was then raised with Chile's Secretary of State for Human Rights and the Ministry of Justice. The government will continue to be a strong voice and a player in human rights, democracy and the rule of law. This applies in both bilateral contacts and international contexts. We maintain that Chile is generally a well-functioning democracy in which the principles of the rule of law are largely respected. Since the reintroduction of democracy in 1990, the institutional framework for human rights has been gradually strengthened by constitutional changes and the establishment of state agencies implementing the acquis. Chile is also allied to the defence of multilateralism. Sweden, through the EU and together with Latin American and Caribbean countries, presents a regular resolution in the UN Human Rights Council on children's rights. Last September the resolution was re-presented and this time focused on fulfilling children's rights through a healthy environment. We have also addressed the ban on arbitrary detention in various multilateral contexts. During the last session of the UN Human Rights Council in September 2020, Sweden, through a joint Nordic-Baltic speech, raised concerns about recent cases of arbitrary detention in the world. We called on all states to cooperate with the UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detentions. I cannot therefore agree with Lorena Delgado Varas that the government is not doing enough or is sufficiently clear on these issues. The government is a strong voice and actor in promoting respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. That is why we are pushing these issues with the utmost conviction in both bilateral and multilateral contexts.
i-23b655c413f218bc-202	Madam President, I would like The Foreign Minister mentions the partially open and closed talks that have been held on human rights in Chile. But these talks do not seem to bite the Chilean government, for two more demonstrators were murdered just this weekend during the protests that took place on the occasion of the one-year celebration of the social revolt. Before that, the police threw a 16-year-old boy off a bridge trying to escape from them. During the year, murder has continued. The Secretary of State further says that it is expected that no child will be illegally deprived of his or her freedom. International human rights organisations have stated that the system in Chile is anything but legal and that it is unreasonable to deprive children of their freedom because they have participated in the social protests. I have previously taken up the report of the MR-organisation 18.10. It shows the situation of the imprisoned children. I hope the Minister has taken note of it. I also sent it to the ambassador. The National Human Rights Institute, INDH, has also reported that among the more than 10 000 prisoners from the whole period October to February there were 1 133 children and young people prevented from being released. The report also refers to the children of the Mapuche communities as being particularly vulnerable due to racism and persecution. In conclusion, the release of all children imprisoned as a result of the social uprising is recommended. Of course you can be clear to a government when you talk in closed or open rooms about bilateral jobs and the like, but you also need to show your support to the Chilean people. There the Swedish Government has not been very clear. Nor has it been intended to use any of the tools that can be used to put pressure on the Chilean Government on the political prisoners. Today there are children who have been imprisoned for one year because they have participated in protests. It is about children and minors who are imprisoned in a state that the government calls democratic. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs about something I have asked you in writing. Unfortunately, I have not yet had an answer to it. It concerns election observers for the referendum to be held on Sunday.
i-23b655c413f218bc-208	Madam President, I would like Again, it is not true that the Swedish Government does not forcefully address these issues directly with the President, Ministers and State Secretary face to face in Chile and in talks. We expect human rights to be respected in all circumstances. That is an idea that we are pushing hard. This expectation is also present during the ongoing pandemic. Chile is a country that has been hit very hard by covid-19. We have noted and we are concerned about the data on difficult conditions in Chilean prisons, which Lorena Delgado Varas mentions. Approximately 140 000 people, 16 000 of whom are women, are in the Chilean prison system. Of these, some 30% are imprisoned or detained, often in difficult conditions with overcrowding and lack of access to healthcare. There are also various forms of offensive treatment. Although the police have replaced critical ammunition and received some MRI training, many of the far-reaching police reforms have failed, and new abuses continue to take place. The incident raised by Lorena Delgado Varas, which was about the police pushing down a demonstrating teenager from a bridge in central Santiago, has, of course, torn up wounds from the time of Pinochet dictatorship. It can, of course, increase tensions, as proved the following day at Plaza Italia, the epicentre from which most demonstrations are based. In addition to Sweden's clear attitude to the Chilean government, the Embassy in Santiago has met minors who are accused of crimes during the social protests and are awaiting trial. The Embassy has met family members of the detainees, lawyers and civil society organisations. They are closely following developments in human rights. Having said that, we still believe that Chile is a democratic rule of law, in which the government and the judicial bodies are clearly separated. But we expect and demand that the government do its utmost to improve the system in prison. That's what we talk about time and time again and again. This means that conditions in Chile's prisons must be improved. Inmates must have access to healthcare and protective equipment, which is particularly important during the current pandemic.
i-23b655c413f218bc-214	Madam President, I would like The Chilean Government is not under sufficient pressure from an eye-to-face approach. It has to be done openly. One must use economic tools, among other things, to put further pressure on the Chilean Government, and one must simply openly condemn what is happening in Chile. I call Chile a dictatorship, and I think it is important that we put on the table what it means to be a democracy. A democracy does not respond by murdering, torturing, maiming, raping or imprisoning legal certainty. A democracy does not make dictatorial laws and does not militarise the country. Today, there are areas in Chile that are completely militarised. You are stopped from travelling freely, controlled or simply supervised when you travel within the area. I know, because I experienced it myself when I visited the country in January. I was followed by the police in the southern regions. My meetings in central Chile were not stopped but controlled; people had to tell me why they were there and so on. There is tremendous state control of the country. I hope that the government is clearly on the side of the Chilean people. So far, it has not been experienced. The Minister mentions the bilateral talks, but externally one does not feel that the Swedish Government is giving its support to the Chilean people. In general, I hope that the government will review support for those countries in Latin America that have experienced or are experiencing various coups, such as Bolivia and Brazil. On Sunday there is a referendum in Chile. I hope, of course, that what the popular movements want is achieved, a new constitution, and that people vote
i-23b655c413f218bc-218	Madam President, I would like I do not think at all that the Chilean people do not feel that Sweden has solidarity with Chile. We have had it for decades, and we continue to have it. On the other hand, I note that it is unfortunately the case that the Chilean people do not have much confidence in the political parties in Chile. The opposition is divided. You don't have a united view of what you want with the Constitution. Military forces defend much higher opinion figures than political parties have. It is sad, and I hope that this situation will improve. We have been clear about how we view the situation in Chile, both in our contacts and through public statements. We're a strong voice. We are actively working for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. We are convinced that Chile feels both our solidarity with the Chilean people and our view on these issues, where we criticise the Chilean Government. Of course, we expect Chile's independent judiciary to investigate the allegations of violations that have arisen. It is a process that has already begun. Our embassy follows it closely and visits the parents of those in prison. We also expect the judiciary to examine whether those detained during demonstrations and arrested in accordance with the law have access to medical care and adequate conditions in prisons, particularly as regards minors. We also welcome the agreement between the government and opposition parties to hold a referendum on whether or not to produce a new constitution and how.
i-23b655c413f218bc-221	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaveh has asked under the heading of the Turkish regime's expansive foreign policy a number of questions which I will begin by explaining. She asks whether I and the government intend to demand immediate release of HDP representatives in Turkey's national parliament and municipal assemblies, as well as Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekda. If I and the government intend to demand the release of all political prisoners, as well as lawyers, doctors, researchers, journalists and democrats, if I and the government intend to condemn Turkey for its almost minor bombings by civilians in Iraqi Kurdistan and Syria, where many have been killed and many women raped for fighting Daish/ Isis, if I and the government intend to bring to the EU a condemnation of Turkey's continuing bombings in Iraqi Kurdistan and Syria, and if I and the government intend to raise in the EU and UN the people-worried militarisation of Mr Rojava and Iraqi Kurdistan and Turkey's aggressive behaviour in Azerbaijan, Libya, Cyprus and Greece. The government is very serious about developments in Turkey. This is particularly true of the lack of respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. It is not acceptable for opposition politicians to be detained, detained and replaced on arbitrary grounds. Particularly affected is the Procurdian opposition party HDP. Free opposition is a prerequisite for a democratic and pluralist society. We continuously convey this to Turkish representatives in Stockholm, Ankara and other places where we meet. I visited Ankara last week. At my meeting with Foreign Minister Çavuşo中lu, I raised the importance of respect for fundamental rights and concerns about Turkey's actions in its neighbourhood. I mentioned in particular the vulnerable situation of elected representatives, particularly Kurdish politicians, human rights defenders, minorities and trade union representatives. I said that the Swedish Government takes arrests seriously. I also did this publicly in the media. In Ankara, I also met with the party leaders of HDP, Mithat Sancar and Pervin Buldan, as well as CP's party leader Kemal Kılőçdaro. We discussed, among other things, the arrest of opposition politicians. J ag expressed Sweden's support to influence developments in Turkey by peaceful and democratic means. I also met civil society organisations to talk about specific challenges in the areas of freedom of expression, the rule of law, LGBTI and women's enjoyment of human rights and trade union rights. Sweden also acts locally to pay attention to the vulnerable situation of change actors. The Swedish foreign authorities in Turkey are monitoring trials, for example against imprisoned oppositional and elected parliamentarians. This applies, for example, to trials that have taken place against the two leaders of HDP, Figen Yüksekda中 and Selahattin Demirtaş, as well as Osman Kavala. We have called for their release in various contexts. In the EU context, Sweden has highlighted in particular the fact that more mayors from the HDP party have been detained and replaced recently. We also highlight Turkey's human rights violations in the context of international fora such as the EU and the Council of Europe. The interpellant mentions Turkey's actions in Iraq and Syria. It is very worrying that Turkey's relations with Kurdish groups continue to deteriorate, including from a regional perspective. The government has clearly condemned Turkey's military offensive in Kurdish-dominated northeastern Syria in the autumn of 2019, which caused great suffering in areas recently liberated from Da i sh. Both Sweden and the EU have condemned the Turkish military offensive on Syrian territory. It is a violation of the UN Charter's prohibition of violence and is contrary to international law. It has played Da i sh in the hands, had great humanitarian consequences and disrupted and complicated the UN-led political process. The Kurdish group and minorities in the region, such as Assyrians, Syrians and Yazidians, must be protected. We are calling for Turkish withdrawal. Turkey's military activity in northern Iraq has serious consequences for civilians in the region as well as for regional security, including in Syria, the eastern Mediterranean, Iraq and Libya. We also raise this with Turkish representatives. As far as Azerbaijan is concerned, the European Council has recently made a clear statement against external interference in the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan and has given its full support to the meetings of the OSCE Minsk Group. Sweden supports this statement.
i-23b655c413f218bc-229	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for an ambitious and very clear answer! Thank you for also resisting the attacks you received at the meeting with the Turkish Foreign Minister. There is a real need for courage and solidarity with the struggle for women in relation to Turkey's aggression against the Kurds, particularly in Rojava and against the Kurds in Turkey. It is women who are fighting side by side with their brothers and fathers in the fight against Daish and Islamism and for democracy and human rights. It's important. It is also very important to mark against Turkey's expansive and aggressive foreign policy against many countries in the region. It also wants to extend its policies in other countries. This applies, for example, to the conflict in Azerbaijan and Armenia. The regions where Turkey today operates are already conflict-filled. Already thousands of people are on the run every day both within their own countries of origin and in other countries. That is why I think it is very important that Sweden, as a country but also within the EU, should make a stronger mark against Erdo中an's aggressive policy. He doesn't care much about what others say. He commits crimes in his own country and against his own people. He has imprisoned 5,000, most opposition politicians, elected representatives of the HDP and their leaders. Now, according to Erdo中an, immunity is to be lifted for seven members, and Pervin Buldan is one of those on his list. Erdo中an's goal is to simply ban and ban HDP. He wants a majority in Parliament to change the Constitution in order to give him more power. The only thing that now stops it is HDP. It is oppositional and does not want to be with CHP. Mr Erdo中an wants a majority to change Turkey, which is why he wants HDP not to exist. Historically in Turkey it was a party in which Kurds and socialists were present. First they are put behind bars and bars, and then the party is banned. They are arrested and tortured in prisons and so on. I very much hope that the Foreign Minister will demand the release of the politicians who are today needed in Turkey. Selahattin Demirtaş, Figen Yüksekda., all the members, mayors, municipal politicians and councillors are needed in a democratic Turkey. Last autumn we had a debate in this House. The Foreign Minister promised to publicly demand the release of all and in particular of Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekda. My question is: will the Minister for Foreign Affairs continue in public today in this House to demand that they and the politicians in HDP be released?
i-23b655c413f218bc-239	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with Amineh Kakabaveh that developments in Turkey continue to be deeply worrying. I made this very clear and the importance of respect for human rights and the rule of law when I met with Foreign Minister Çavuşo中lu this week. Opposition politicians, journalists, trade unionists and civil society activists are still in detention on undue grounds. As late as September, further arrests of opposition politicians were made. This has been clearly and publicly criticised by the government on several occasions. In our talks with representatives of Turkey, we clearly emphasise that free opposition, respect for human rights and the rule of law are a prerequisite for a democratic society. Our criticism relates not least to the situation of the pro-Kurdian opposition party HDP and its former party leader Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekda We demand their release – as I am now saying again officially in this House – and have put it in different contexts. It is also a prerequisite for developing Turkey's relationship with the EU. I mentioned the vulnerable situation of elected representatives, and in particular Kurdish politicians, human rights defenders, minorities and trade union representatives. I also said that the Swedish Government takes the detentions that have been carried out seriously. As I mentioned, in Ankara I also met with the leader of the HDP, Mithat Sancar and Pervin Buldan and the leader of the CP's party, Kemal Kılőçdaro. We discussed, among other things, the very vulnerable situation of opposition politicians and the many detentions that have taken place. I expressed Sweden's support for our being able to influence developments in Turkey by peaceful and democratic means. I also met representatives of civil society organisations in a number of areas. They were trade unions, women's organisations, LGBTQ people's organisations and lawyers' organisations. Their stories are very upsetting to listen to. Even through our embassy and our Consulate General in Istanbul, we show solidarity with and support for opposition politicians and human rights defenders. We do this, for example, by monitoring trials. We have also been involved in ensuring that other countries pay attention to these cases and attend trials. We have called for their release in various contexts. I have also drawn attention in the European context to the investigations that have been initiated against politicians and people who have criticised Turkey's military offensive in north-east Syria.
i-23b655c413f218bc-248	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your report. I am very pleased and commend the Foreign Minister for the courage she has had and the work she is doing for human rights, women's rights and the rights of the Kurds in Turkey, Syria and so on. We know that the terror stamping of the PKK is really the root cause of the conflict that Turkey has started against the Kurds in all areas. There are Kurds in four countries. In any case, wars have been started in three of the countries against Iraqi Kurdistan. They bomb and have bombed since the mid-80s and 90s. Thousands of villages are destroyed, and people are on the run. Innocent people, civilians and children, die. In Syria, war crimes have also been committed. Amnesty International, for example, has condemned the extrajudicial execution of Kurdish female politician Hevrin Khalaf. This has happened several times in the name of combating terrorism. There is a list of terrorist organisations in the EU, among others, but also in Interpol. I know that these issues are raised every six months in the European Union, and the countries can say their part. In Sweden we have laws that say that we do not terror stamp freedom fighters and people who fight for their human rights. It goes without saying that the organisations that commit crimes must be condemned; I have to say that. But if we do not work to lift the PKK off the terror list, the Kurds will be the subject of Turkey's wars, invasions and imprisonments, regardless of which parties are started. We have seen through history in the last 20 years how many times the Kurds and HDP have changed their name and been closed. The immunity of, for example, the leader and the other seven Members is now being lifted. It's Pervin Buldan, who the Secretary of State has met. The other Member is Mr Paylan, and the third is Mr Beştaş. Mr Kaya is the fourth, Mr Saruhan Oluç is the fifth, Mr Temelli the sixth and Mr Kemalbay the seventh. They're all MPs like me. It is therefore as if someone were to remove my immunity, and this is happening in Turkey before our eyes. My question is: will the Foreign Minister fight for the removal of this terror stamp and for the parties to sit in peace talks? The talks began before the 2015 elections, when the Kurds gained a majority – or at least more than 13%, which was enough to enter the Turkish Parliament. At that time, Erdo中an simply chose to arrest and slaughter them as a party. Will we not fight for this? It does not matter whatever party you start; in Turkey you will be subject to imprisonment, bans and lifting immunity. They'll be called terrorists. I really want to hear about this from the Foreign Minister.
i-23b655c413f218bc-257	Madam President, I would like On this issue, we have completely different views. Sweden and the EU consider the PKK to be a terrorist organisation. It has been classified as a terrorist since 2002 with sanctions. There is no way that Sweden would push the issue to remove PKK from the list. However, we take Turkey's actions in its immediate vicinity seriously. Turkey is moving further away from the EU and its international commitments. I would like to say something about Turkey's actions in Iraq and Syria. We, both the EU and Sweden, have condemned Turkey's military offensive in Kurdish-dominated northeastern Syria in autumn 2019. It caused great suffering. It gave Daish the opportunity to see that this has played them in their hands. The Kurdish groups and the minorities in the region, Assyrians, Syrians and Yazidians, must be protected. We want a Turkish withdrawal, and I have also impressed it both in my meeting with my Turkish counterpart and in public at a press conference in Ankara. The Turkish military offensive in northern Iraq has had serious consequences for civilians in the region and for regional security. It is therefore important for Turkey to act in accordance with international law and in full respect of Iraq's sovereignty. The European Council of 1 and 2 October made it clear that if Turkey acts constructively to halt illegal activities in the eastern Mediterranean affecting Greece and Cyprus, the Council will adopt a positive political agenda in the EU-Turkey relationship. At the same time, the EU is prepared to use all available means if Turkey continues to act proactively and contrary to international law. I spoke to my Turkish colleague about this and said that Sweden wants to see a de-escalation of the tense situation in the eastern Mediterranean. We share the concerns of the EU High Representative on this issue. These are conflicting signals that are now coming from Turkey, and that, of course, is not good. We want to see a move towards dialogue and relaxation. We must have a peaceful dialogue in accordance with international law. However, if the EU's dialogue with Turkey does not produce results, we are prepared to consider further action against Turkey.
i-23b655c413f218bc-263	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is good to engage in dialogue, and it is clear that we want to resolve every conflict in this world with dialogue. You'd want to end every war with pencils and thinking. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case for Erdo中an. Erdo中an sits there and decides and occupies country by country. He wants to be the sultan of the Ottoman Empire. And no one condemns him and brings him to justice. He should be brought to justice because he commits war crimes and crimes against international law. But an organisation that has committed crimes is somewhat disproportionate to a state that commits crimes. It is very unfortunate that the two parties who actually sat at the same table and tried to negotiate should not be allowed to continue with it. But Mr Erdo中an disliked them because they wanted to enter Parliament through democracy, that is to say, the Kurds. All Kurds are not just PKKs, and whether we want to or not represents PKK ordinary people. I have criticized the PKK for their crimes, but their leader is in prison for 20 years. And what does the President of Turkey do? Well, he's occupying and bombing and calling everyone terrorists. What are we doing in Europe and Sweden? We are giving more ammunition to Erdo中an so that he can justify his invasions, his murder and his lynching of women and politicians even more. Those who have fought and defeated Daish are raped. He's bombing them because he says they're terrorists. But apparently he is not himself a terrorist when he bombs NATO, bombs, occupies, kills and rapes. That's very unfortunate. The conflict will not be resolved as long as the conflict between the PKK and Erdo中an is not resolved.
i-23b655c413f218bc-268	Madam President, I would like As I said before, the interpellant and Sweden and the government do not share the same view of the PKK. We believe that they should remain on the list of sanctions for terrorist offences committed. However, as I said, I share Amineh Kakabaveh's great concern about the deteriorating situation in Turkey, not least with regard to mass redundancies, mass arrests and human rights violations. Freedom of expression and media, political opposition and a well-functioning rule of law are prerequisites for having an inclusive and democratic society. I have also said this in Turkey. In Sweden's contacts with Turkey, the government will continue tirelessly to demand respect for human rights. There is no military solution to the conflict in Syria. This applies whether we choose to look at Turkey's actions in north-east Syria or at the conflict as a whole. The only way to end violence and bring about sustainable peace in the country is through a UN-led political process. Sweden will continue to monitor and act on developments in north-eastern Syria. We will also continue to contribute to alleviating the suffering and distress we see in Syria and in the affected neighbouring countries. We do this through our extensive humanitarian aid to the regional Syria crisis strategy, which now amounts to SEK 1.8 billion.
