i-36861beed9009003-1	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me how I and the government intend to act to ensure that sentenced immigrants are not released pending execution. The question is raised with reference to the consequences of the coronavirus. I would therefore like to stress at the outset that the government is taking the necessary decisions in several areas to combat the virus and counteract the effects of the spread of infection in society. The removal of persons who do not have the right to reside in Sweden should be done as quickly as possible and primarily voluntarily but otherwise under coercion. In recent years, the government has taken a series of measures to increase return, and I note that since 2014 and until now, more than 80 000 former asylum seekers have left Sweden. It is, on average, over 1 100 per month. We currently have an exceptional situation due to the ongoing pandemic. Cancelled flights, entry restrictions and other disease control measures around the world also present practical difficulties in the enforcement of removal decisions, both voluntarily and forcefully. Account must also be taken of the safety and safety of the staff involved and of the persons to be removed. However, the return work continues and is carried out to the extent possible given these conditions. It includes holding an ongoing dialogue with relevant countries of origin on readmission issues so that return can continue. So there is no general stop to the enforcement of removal decisions. It will also continue to be possible to take or retain a person in custody or to subject a person to supervision if it is necessary for the preparation or enforcement of a removal decision. As in the normal case, i.e. when there is no pandemic, the authorities should make an individual assessment in the individual case and keep under constant review whether continued detention or minor intervention measures such as supervision are justified. This also applies to persons sentenced to deportation for crimes. This is also being done under the current circumstances. The government is following the issue closely to ensure that detention and return are carried out to the extent permitted by the current situation.
i-36861beed9009003-8	Madam President, I would like The Chinese Corona virus sweeps the world and leaves disease, death and economic chaos behind. In writing, or rather speaking, moment, no Swede could have been left untouched by how the virus has affected our society and our country. As if the problems related to public health and the economy were not enough, the government is now also failing to expel foreign citizens who are not in Sweden. The reason is that there are practical problems with almost all forms of travel, which of course makes it difficult to enforce expulsion decisions. That is the harsh reality and nothing we can do much about. However, the consequence of this is that the shadow society will increase and thus also the security risks associated with it. As early as 18 March, the police reported on their website that the Afghan authorities have chosen to prevent the execution of expulsions in connection with the Corona virus. In practice, this means that people who, for various reasons, do not have the right to reside freely in our country – for example, because they have committed serious crimes and have been sentenced to expulsion – will nevertheless be allowed to do just that. The police formulated it as follows: If, after an individual assessment, there is no longer support in the law, this may mean that clients now in custody will be released from custody. A little later, on 2 April, the head of the border police in Bergslagen Ulrika Granberg's words in P4 Dalarna could be consulted. She felt that the closed borders across the world made it difficult to enforce expulsion decisions and added that there was an imminent risk of people hiding. Madam President, I would like Morgan Johansson did not answer how we solve this problem. It may be true that expulsions have still taken place to some extent, as the Minister stressed. What I problematize, however, is that those who cannot be expelled sooner or later will be released – free to go underground and free to hide from future expulsions. The Minister certainly says in his reply that it is also still possible to take or keep a person in custody. That's right, but the time someone gets held in waiting for enforcement is limited. In this case, it is the enforcement of expulsion orders, which is governed by the Foreigners' Act of Chapter 10. In the second paragraph of §3 and the period of detention is two to three months in accordance with §4. Enforcement of expulsions and expulsions has already been limited for more than a month. In other words, before the pandemic is over, all those in custody who have not been able to be expelled will have been released after this deadline has passed.
i-36861beed9009003-17	Madam President, I would like Firstly, the Corona crisis has a major impact on broad areas in virtually all of society. That applies to all areas. As far as migration is concerned, we see immediate and very significant effects. This applies primarily to the number of asylum seekers to Sweden. It should not be forgotten that there will be a powerful effect there too. The number has fallen dramatically in recent weeks, and it has fallen from an already very low level. When we entered this year, we already had a very low level of asylum seekers; I think it was lower than in almost ten years. Now, in recent weeks, this level has been more than halved. We are currently seeing a weekly rate in terms of the number of asylum seekers to Sweden, which is the lowest in 23 years. That is where we are right now; that is to be remembered when Tobias Andersson talks about shadow society. The number of asylum seekers to Sweden has thus decreased dramatically in recent weeks. It is clear that this is bad news for the Swedish Democrats, who now find it a little more difficult to engage in what you like most, namely to incite immigrants in different ways. It will be more difficult for you as the number of asylum seekers has now fallen as much as it has. It will be more difficult for you to be intimidated by immigrants at this point. Secondly – and this is what the interpellation is about – this also has implications for the number of outbounds. There is Sweden not alone, but the other way around. All EU countries are in exactly the same position. This is a natural consequence of the shutdown of countries and the virtually cessation of international air travel. It should be borne in mind that Sweden has, over time, recently had a very high rate of return – in fact, a much higher rate than most other EU countries. As I say in my reply, since 2014, more than 80 000 people, former asylum seekers, have left Sweden. It's over 1,100 a month. In the last ten-year period, more than 150 000 former asylum seekers have left Sweden. It is also well over 1 000 per month and, as I said, more than in most other EU countries. We have much more effective return work than most other EU countries. Of course, in recent months it has become more difficult, but outbounds have not stopped. When I pick up the figures from the Migration Board and the police, it turns out that the figure from mid-March to mid-April, about, is a little over 270 outbounds – to compare with the normal situation, that is, about 1,000. My message, therefore, is that return also works in this situation. You do what you can to solve the situation in this situation too. Now Tobias Andersson is trying to get it that this leads to a lot of criminal security risks. That is not the case at all. First of all, if you have been convicted of a crime and are to be expelled, there is no longer a time limit for how long you can be detained. Tobias Andersson speaks of two three months, but that does not apply to those who have been convicted of crime. There is no longer a time limit. Secondly, should you pose a security risk in Sweden, we have another legislation, the law on special foreign control, LSU, which also allows for the arrest of the individuals to whom it is referred. So what we are talking about here are not people who have been convicted of crime. These aren't security risks. It is men, women and children who have applied for asylum in Sweden and who have been rejected. It is not a crime to have applied for asylum. No matter how badly the Swedish Democrats want it to be a crime, it is not a crime. Here we need to make sure that these situations are handled in a humanitarian way.
i-36861beed9009003-26	Madam President, I would like I would like to call on the Minister for Migration and Justice to raise the level of the debate. I have never had and will never have the political act of inciting immigrants. However, I have the ambition to protect Swedes. It is perhaps an ambition that the government lacked, not least given that asylum seekers are in fact exempt from the entry ban that exists. For example, if you were from Iran during the early stages of the pandemic and wanted to travel from there to Sweden, you were affected by the entry ban, but not if you were from Iran and wanted to apply for asylum in Sweden. Then it was no longer so important to come from a heavily contaminated area. Madam President, I would like In his replies, Morgan Johansson refers to the fact that expulsions and expulsions are still taking place. I would therefore like to quote what the police only wrote on their website this week: a lower number of enforcements have been carried out since the entry ban came into force, compared with the same period of the previous month and the previous year. The police department executed 87 cases... between March 19th and April 15th. This is a decrease of approximately 81% compared to the same period of the previous month when 462 cases were executed. A reduction of 81%, Madam President! Given that the current pandemic does not miraculously end in near-time and enforcement can take place, a large proportion of those in custody are at risk of being released once the time frame of two to three months has passed. It is very possible that some may remain in enforcement custody for longer than that, but it does not change the fact that people will be released after two to three months have passed. And nothing indicates that the pandemic will be blown away within such a timeframe. I cannot therefore understand how the Minister cannot take this more seriously. If the government does not act immediately and ensures the possibility of longer detention of foreigners to be rejected or expelled, the shadow society will increase. Sweden will host more illegal immigrants, and in the wake of this we will have a bigger threat picture. Madam President, I would like Any person who is illegally present in our country poses a potential security risk. Already today, the number of illegals amounts to tens of thousands. We cannot allow covid-19 to tighten those numbers. This should be quite obvious to the Minister, but this does not seem to be the case. Therefore, my question is whether the Minister here and now, in Parliament's Chamber, can promise that none of those who will be released from enforcement custody is a danger. Can the Minister assure me that no law-abiding Swede will get into trouble because of the release of foreigners who are to be rejected or expelled?
i-36861beed9009003-30	Madam President, I would like The whole business concept of the Swedish democrats is to incite against residents. Everyone who's been following them for the past ten years knows that. That's just the way it is. There is no difference in this particular situation. Despite the fact that we are experiencing a Corona crisis, you continue with that kind of rhetoric. In this interpellation debate, it is for Tobias Andersson to try to further suspect people who have applied for asylum in Sweden. Again, we are not actually talking about the convicted. For those who have been convicted of crime, there is no longer a time limit for detention pending expulsion. As a matter of fact, that's the way it is. Tobias Andersson doesn't want to feel that way, but that's actually the way it is. So we are not talking about the convicted. Nor are we talking about those who pose serious safety risks in Sweden. There we have, as I said, another legislation, the LSU, the law on special foreign control. Based on it, we can keep them in custody. What we are talking about, Madam President, are men, women and children who have come to Sweden and applied for asylum but have not been granted a residence permit in Sweden. They didn't commit any crimes. They do not pose any security risks in the sense that they are subject to the Special Alien Control Act. These people have been refused a residence permit, but they should not be discredited in the way that the Swedish Democrats and Tobias Andersson are constantly trying to do. We have a responsibility to ensure that these people can return well to their homeland. Although we now have a situation with a lower exit rate, the outbounds have not stopped at all, quite the contrary. I gave the figures just now: from mid-March to mid-April, a little over 270 missions have been carried out. It is now a question of trying to solve the situation in a practical way. We can't keep bringing more and more people into custody if we can't send them home at the pace we've been able to in the past. Then we'll fill up the repository in no time. It makes no sense. Keeping people who have not committed any crimes and who are not security risks in custody is not compatible with either Swedish legislation or the European Convention on Human Rights. You should be perfectly clear about that. If we were to do what Tobias Andersson goes forward and says we should do, we would be breaking the international commitments that we have. What, then, can we do instead? If you cannot keep them in custody because you see that there is no possibility of exit in the near future, you can instead put them under surveillance, i.e. at large but with an obligation to report to a police station at regular intervals. That is exactly what is happening now. These men, women and children are handled in a humanitarian and good way. But do not continue to spread the image of mistrust and that this is about people who are security risks and criminals! Actually, that's not what we're talking about. It is asylum seekers who have used their human right to seek asylum in another country. We will ensure that we deal with them with respect, even if they receive a rejection of their asylum application.
i-36861beed9009003-37	Madam President, I would like When I submit an interpellation to Parliament to ask a question to a minister, I do so with a serious input into the debate. I find it worrying that the Minister for Migration and Justice cannot deal with the interpellete with the same ambition of respect and seriosity, but instead engages in slander and claims that it is a question of inciting immigrants, when we have an obvious problem that lies on the table of the Minister for Migration and Justice and for which he is not responsible. I think it is deeply worrying, Madam President. If there was not a problem with a growing shadow society, the Social Democrats would not have expressed an ambition to deal with this and to try to limit the number of illegal immigrants in Sweden. That is what the Social Democrats have said they should do. In his reply, Morgan Johansson describes the number of expulsions that have taken place. I find it strange that when I point out that it is problematic with a growing shadow society and want to take action to ensure that this does not grow any further, it is inciting immigrants. But when the Social Democrats try to execute expulsions and limit the scope of shadow society, it is responsible. That is a strange double standard, Madam President. I would also like to point out that we would in no way violate any international commitments if we extended the enforcement detention period. The ECHR does not regulate any time limits and EU law gives the right to initial six months in enforcement custody and a further 12 months after review. It is Sweden that has settled at a low level. Having said that, my question is still: does the government intend to take steps to ensure that persons are not released from enforcement custody and impoverish the shadow society?
i-36861beed9009003-41	Madam President, I would like Throughout this rhetoric from the Swedish Democrats, there is a constant desire to portray all asylum seekers as criminals and as security risks. That is exactly what it is about, and that is what Tobias Andersson is standing here trying to do. What I am saying is that this is not about those who have committed crimes or those who are security risks. Both of these situations can be dealt with in today's legislation. There is no longer a time limit for the detention of the person who has been expelled as a result of a crime. Then there is the law of special foreigner control that allows us to keep people in custody if that is the case. There is therefore no need for further legislation. What this is about are people who have applied for asylum and who have been refused the application but who have not committed crimes. It is no crime to seek asylum no matter how much the Swedish Democrats want it to be so. On the contrary, it is a human right to do so. I am convinced that once we are through this pandemic situation, the return journeys will be able to resume. As I said, Sweden is one of the EU's most effective countries in carrying out missions. It is an important part of a regulated immigration policy, that is to say, to ensure that those who are refused are also able to return to their home countries. Over the last ten years, more than 150 000 people have left Sweden and gone back to their home countries after being an asylum seeker in Sweden, or it has been Dublin cases. It's over 1,100 a month. I would like to say that, when we are through this crisis, we will be able to resume that system and that structure. I'm convinced of that. Until then, we must make use of the means of monitoring and the legislation that exists and deal with this in a humanitarian way.
