i-9f29e8c4097be860-0	Madam President, I would like The Left Party has requested a special debate on men's violence against women in order to address on a common platform one of society's greatest security issues. In 2018, 22 women were murdered in Sweden, which is a doubling towards 2017. Recently, two young women have also been abducted and murdered, 17-year-old Wilma Andersson and 20-year-old Emilia Lundberg. Two men close to them are now in custody, suspected of committing the murders. Two such serious crimes in a short period of time must be seen as an extraordinary event. In combination with the increase in the number of murders of women, we believe that the situation is urgent and that strong action must be taken. I am very proud that we are having this debate today and would like to thank all of you for agreeing fully with us that it is important. I firmly believe that we need to work together to stop men's violence against women.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-3	Madam President, I would like First of all, thank you very much to the Member of Parliament, Maj Karlsson, for initiating this important debate! Since the turn of the millennium, about 300 women have been murdered by their husband, ex-husband, or boyfriend. About one in four women in Sweden will be subjected to violence at some point in her life by a loved one. These are terrible numbers! There are women in Sweden who live their lives in fear every day. Girls and women are also subjected to abuse and sexual harassment at school, in the workplace and in the public space. We can never accept this violence. It has to stop. We must also fight against honour-related violence and repression. An estimated one hundred thousand young people in our country live with everything from restrictions on dress and career choices to exposure to genital mutilation, forced marriage and highly honour killings. Men's violence against women, including honour-related violence and repression, is one of our most important gender equality issues, security issues and freedom issues. We need to be better at providing protection and support for vulnerable people and ensuring that the consequences of violence are achieved, and we need to work to prevent violence. Madam President, I would like Children suffer extremely badly from men's violence against women and from honour-related violence and oppression. It is an estimated 200 000 children in Sweden who grow up in homes where there is violence. These children are extremely hard hit, both by themselves being subjected to violence and by the fact that there is violence between adults in the home, primarily violence directed at mother – in the home, where children more than anywhere else would feel safe. Instead, there lives the fear, the pain, the anxiety, the stomach pain, and the difficulty sleeping. I don't want a child to have a baby like that. No child should have to grow up and be afraid. Madam President, I would like Last year, the Sex Purchase Act celebrated 20 years. It is a law that clearly takes a stand for not being able to buy access to another person's body and which already 20 years ago placed the debt where it belongs, namely with the buyer. It's important. Of course, the Sex Purchase Act is not enough. We need to do more to stop this violence. Not least, we have to work harder to stop men's demand. Without demand, no prostitution or human trafficking. It's as simple as that. Support for women who are particularly vulnerable and transgender needs to be strengthened. Madam President, I would like Men's violence against women and honour-related violence and oppression are major societal problems. In my second speech, I will say a few words about a few things that we need to do. Because as politicians, we have a responsibility to act, to act to end violence against women and girls.
i-TDbW8CNuQPcVPmodbwjp7i	Madam President, I would like Agneta Hansson, Amineh Demir, Susanne Ahl, Annika Dahlquist, Anna Fält, Kim Hedborg, Marika Kadebava and Lovisa Eriksson. There are eight names and eight women who have been allowed to symbolize the 299 women in our country who, from 1 January 2000 until June 2019, were killed by men in their vicinity. They left 246 minor children behind. Their stories are documented in the book In the event of my death by Kerstin Weigl and Kristina Edblom. The women were killed by someone they previously loved and shared their life with. Many more people are being abused both mentally and physically. Nevertheless, there are no major headlines in the media. It does not lead to any news flashes on our screens, and too often we talk about it as relationship trouble and family tragedy. But it's about serious crimes. It's about murder, assault, and feminism. It is a brutal and frightening reality that has to take so damn little place in the public debate. It is women and children who are victims and we need to see. Men's violence against women is the ultimate expression of inequality in our country. Sweden has for a long time been a pioneer in combating men's violence against women. We have the ten-year national strategy. We have introduced the Consensus Act, we have increased the minimum penalty for aggravated rape and we have significantly increased the funding for women's shelters. But basically it's about influencing men's attitudes, and it's a work we need to do together across society. Men's violence against women is not only unmanageable, unworthy and inhuman – it is basically an abominable crime of violence.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-15	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the Left Party, which has initiated this debate! Men's violence against women and violence in close relationships is a serious social problem that causes great suffering to many, not only to those who are directly exposed but also, for example, to many children who are often forced to witness the terrible things of domestic violence. There are, of course, several parts to this. A key area is prevention and long-term care. But this is also much more than just a social policy issue. Ultimately, violence against women is a matter of justice. It is a serious breach of the law, and it is to be dealt with just after. These crimes often occur in one's own home. It's a place where you have the right to feel safe. In 2018, more than 3,000 cases were reported of gross female defamation and gross peace reduction. At the same time, the numbers of darkness are very large. In a study from Brå the other year, they pointed out that only 4 percent of the offences that occurred were reported to the police. We also see that the exposure to sexual offences has increased tremendously in recent years. In addition, too many rapes occur and are never cleared up. According to the National Safety Survey, in Sweden today, in January 2020, more than one in three women feel insecure outdoors in their own residential area at night. There are, of course, many things to do here. I do not have time to mention everyone in my first speech, but I will come back to them in my second. Nevertheless, let me mention two points here and now. First of all, we need to tighten up the penalties for gross violation of women's rights and for gross violation of peace. This legislation focuses on repeated violations committed precisely in a close relationship. This could be assault, illegal threats, illegal coercion and sexual or other harassment. Today, the scale of punishment for these crimes is prison for nine months to six years. It is a sanction that is not at all in parallel with the violation to which the victim is subjected. This is what we Moderates want to change. We want to tighten this up in order to better reflect the vulnerability of the victims of crime, and we therefore want to tighten the law to prison for between one and up to ten years. This combined with, secondly, changing the limits of detention and making it mandatory in more cases, would mean that more men who commit this kind of vile crime not only get more severe punishments but also be directly detained. They cannot therefore commit new crimes during the time they are being investigated for what they have done. These would be two things that could lead to concrete changes – not tomorrow but here and now.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-24	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by warmly thanking the Left Party for calling this extremely important debate on men's violence against women. It is extremely good that we now have the opportunity to discuss this issue and hopefully find common positions in the fight to prevent and stop violence against women, although it makes me frustrated that we still need to have this kind of debate. After all, women are still being beaten, raped, murdered and oppressed in Sweden in 2020. It is done out in public or behind closed doors in the home, by unknown perpetrators as well as by people you have a close relationship with. Regardless of where and how the violence takes place, it is our duty not to reduce it to a news headline that we browse by. Behind every news headline is a man of flesh and blood who has been exposed to something that no man should be subjected to. It is therefore up to us always to remember the people behind the headlines and never to stop fighting for their right to redress. Because I believe in redress. I believe in its importance to the one who has been subjected to something unforgivable. I believe in the importance of society looking to the victim's interests to a much greater extent. In order to do this, a number of measures need to be put in place. More police officers are needed to keep reports from being piled up. The woman who has made the many times tough decision to report her offender must be given a hearing for her decision. There is a need for more patrolling policemen in streets and squares, and more camera surveillance is needed. It should never be normalized that women feel compelled to look over their shoulder when they are out alone. In my world, only perpetrators should have to look over their shoulder and feel observed and persecuted. A ban on contact is needed in order to make it easier to impose a ban on men who do not respect women's right to avoid contact with them. More severe penalties are needed for sexual offences, illegal persecution and gross female discrimination. Society must clearly mark when the integrity and freedoms of women are violated and challenged. Finally, compensation for violence against women needs to be increased, and women's shelters need to be given more resources. For all of this and more, the Swedish Democrats have politics. Madam President, I would like I look forward to a fruitful debate in which we can set aside our differences in favour of a common desire to change the lives of women of the future and of the present.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-32	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank the Left Party for the initiative for this debate. This is a subject that deserves far more attention from us legislators than has been the case so far. At the end of last year, we found that 22 women had been murdered within the framework of what we call violence in close relationships. And on Christmas holidays, it looks like there were more. This has to stop. We spend an enormous amount of time and political effort addressing gang violence, and that is of course extremely important. But women's security is also important. Just because at the moment there are no blazing evening-time headlines, we cannot leave these people in the lurch. A huge asset in my work on justice policy is the knowledge and commitment gathered in the Women's League of our Party, the Center Women. A few years ago, they gave me an insight into life that was like an unexpected blow to my stomach. I think we all know that it is common for women and girls to feel insecure in the city, that they rush from the bus stop, maybe run, and that they have the keys in their hands to defend themselves in order to get home – to the place where we should all feel safe. Nevertheless, the facts speak clearly, Madam President: the most dangerous place a woman can be in is in her own home. This is where most violent crimes affect women. And the person who commits the crime is the person with whom they should be the safest: a man, a partner, someone you have chosen to share your life with. Mortal violence has probably in all cases been preceded by a long period of violations. The fact that these women have not been helped in time is a failure of the rule of law. The fact that society does so little to protect them is actually a scandal. Let that time be over! Let us work together on ideas for how this can be changed! Let us use the political force at our disposal to put pressure on the government if it continues to fail to deliver! There is sometimes a tendency to try politically to exploit the power of insecurity that many feel to push forward for other issues that one considers important. One of the classics is to try to link crime to immigration in order to pursue an anti-immigration agenda. Sometimes it can be a way to shift focus from other problems, which one considers more difficult to solve. The latest example is well how the government tries to use gang violence as an excuse for a strange idea to say the least about regulating magazines. If we take violence against women seriously, we cannot use the debate as a bat for other things. We must not allow focus to shift away from the main issue. Words, condemnations and statements of the unacceptable in all honour – what is needed are concrete measures. What is required is simply action. Let me set an example and mention in my next speech some concrete proposals that the Center Party has on this extremely important issue.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-44	Madam President, I would like Around us are guys and men who beat women, who torture women. It is men and boys who have taken the right to rape, oppress and even murder women. Over the last ten years, 300 women have been murdered by men. Last year, 22 were buried. This is the ultimate consequence of an unequal society. The 2018 death report shows that, in most cases, the women affected had been in contact with two or more social actors before the murder was committed but without any help. When women sought help from healthcare, for example, questions were not asked about violence, even when the signs were clear. Very rarely risk assessments were made when the woman filed a police report or applied for help from the social services. The risk of honour-related violence and repression was not noticed by police or social services. No one made sure there was any coordination around the woman who was threatened with life. Even the risk of the man's violence was not noticed despite the fact that many had had contact with the health care service shortly before the murder. Applications for a restraining order were rejected despite the fact that there was a very serious threat to the woman. These are brutal facts about women who have repeatedly cried out for help in fear of their lives but where society has chosen to close their eyes. These are murders that might have been stopped if society hadn't failed. Madam President, I would like However, those who have always been there for the vulnerable women are women's shelters. With over 30 years of experience, they work tirelessly to save the lives of children and women. The holidays are also their most important voice carriers. It is therefore positive that the government, under pressure from the Left Party, has increased its contributions to women's and girls' shelters. But something very serious is now happening. In recent years, more and more women's shelters around the country have been exposed to competition. Right now politics is playing a business with the lives of vulnerable women and children. When women's shelters are procured, all their knowledge, experience and non-profit commitment risks being sold out in favour of a cheaper alternative. This must be stopped at all costs. One cannot claim, Madam President, that we want to stop men's violence against women if, at the same time, we destroy what saves the lives of women and children. That is why we in the Left Party are calling for women's shelters to be strengthened and not sold out.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-51	Madam President, I would like This important debate is about men's violence against women, although men may also suffer from violence in close relationships, which is unfortunately neglected in the government's interim objectives to combat violence in close relationships. This is something that the National Board of Health and Welfare and we Christian Democrats, too, have criticised. Many women and children living in the family or in a relationship live in fear and under constant threat. The women who report the threats and the beatings are in danger of being murdered. Between 2014 and 2017, 55 women died of deadly violence in close relationships. In the case of sexual offences, the number of reported rapes is increasing. From 2018 to 2019, the number increased by as much as 10 per cent to 8,350 reported rapes, half of which – around 4,000 – are children and young people under 18 years of age. Since 2015, we have seen a general increase in reported sexual offences, and this is something we must now act against. In the National Crime Prevention Survey of the Council, 34 per cent of women aged 20 to 24 stated that they have been subjected to sexual offences. Almost every other woman reported that they have taken another way home because of a crime concern. However, this is something that the Minister for Gender Equality in the media has wanted to cover up in recent days. Many women are also affected by honour-related violence, something that many have been involved in here. Some studies now show that over 100 000, i.e. every tenth youth between 15 and 25 years of age, are exposed to honour-related violence and oppression. Madam President, I would like Overall, it is terrible that so many girls and women live in terror in our society every day. With the current government, the development of violence is going in the wrong direction, and we now need to take active action here. We Christian Democrats have one of the proposals mentioned earlier by Moderate Johan Forssell, namely to tighten the penalties for the reduction of peace from nine months to one year. This allows the police on their own to retrieve medical records and pursue an investigation even if the woman herself does not dare to stick to her report. Madam President, I would like The work of the women's helpers is very important, and they have been given more resources, which we support. However, the problem is that municipalities are now starting to withdraw funds for on-call housing. What does the Minister for Gender Equality do to remedy this? I believe that a great many more measures will be needed, but unfortunately I see that the feminist government has lost its way. You don't see the real needs. You talk about action, but nothing gets done.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-60	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the Left Party! When a bomb explodes or when it is shot on the open street, the attention of the whole community is captured. But when a father abuses mother or both mother and children, many close their eyes. This is where violence takes place in secret. In 2018, 22 women were murdered by their partner. This is a doubling compared to 2017. During 2019, 28 000 cases of assault offences against women were reported. Today, however, I will speak for the children. Children should not be forced to grow up with an adult who practices violence and oppression. But society too often compromises when it comes to protecting children from perpetrators. Instead of protecting the child from a father who eventually kills the mother, one lets the father's right to custody and companionship outweigh children's right to support and protection. Other children are forced to grow up with a father who has abused her mother. This is totally unacceptable and must be stopped. I've met the children behind the statistics. I have comforted the five - year - old boy on the women's shelter who was forced by government to visit his father in prison — a father who had tried to murder the boy's mother in front of his son. The boy finally managed to save the mother by calling for help through the letter slot. I have met children who put their finger on the central question: You understood that it was dangerous for Mom to live with Dad. But you didn't understand how scared I was to be forced to live alone with him. I became a politician less than three years ago after working with violent children and women for over 20 years. The fact that this violence continues without stronger measures being taken by the authorities and politicians is nothing more than a national scandal. We must step up and stop throwing pies and instead ensure that the authorities protect the children and the woman subjected to violence at all costs. Liberals have a proud history of always taking the lead in combating violence against children and women. We were involved in pushing through the world's first legislation against child abuse, and our party leader Nyamko Sabuni pushed through Sweden's proposal against forced marriage. But neither have we done enough. All victims of violence have the right to expect more. Let us promise here today that we will deliver more and that firepowers out there on women's shelters, at the police, social services and public prosecutors are given the opportunity to do their job. Liberals want to take responsibility, and I want to take responsibility. A first step would be to develop a national strategy to combat violence against children. The parent convicted of murdering the child's mother shall automatically lose the right to custody of the child.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-70	Madam President, I would like We need to do much more to combat men's violence against women, including honour-related violence and oppression. I was going to go into five areas that we're working on right now. Firstly, we need to strengthen prevention. We know that destructive masculinity standards are linked to violence. We need to combat destructive man standards and also learn more about how to combat honor standards. It is a long-term and difficult job, but it is not impossible. We know that we can change standards and values. Not long ago, people in this country... generally thought it was okay to hit a child, but not many people today think so. Standards and values can change. Secondly, we need to strengthen and improve protection in emergency situations and also work on long-term support for victims of violence. We know that there are young people who have managed to leave their family, but loneliness has been so great that young people have returned to their families again. There are women who return to a violent man because they cannot find a place to live. Then society has failed. We also need to do more for particularly vulnerable groups of women, such as women exposed to prostitution and human trafficking, women with addiction, women with disabilities and older women. Thirdly, we need to make it possible for social services to provide support for children who suffer ill, such as victims of violence of honour, even if the guardians say no. We cannot put parents'right to say no before children's right to receive support and help. Therefore, the National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with drafting legislative proposals on how social services can provide support even when parents oppose it. Fourthly, we need to continue to increase the knowledge among professionals about men's violence against women and honour-related violence and repression so that we become better at catching up with those who need help. Many of those who have been victims of violence have had different contacts with society, which has been raised in previous posts, with school, health care and social services – and yet we have missed them. Yet children and young people are taken abroad and married away, and yet women are murdered. Knowledge must continue to grow. Fifthly, we need to strengthen the judiciary and tighten the penalties. The police are currently hiring 350 new employees who will focus on clearing up rapes, crimes in close relationships and sexual crimes against children. We are working on proposals for a penalty for honour crimes and are investigating whether the concept of honor crimes should be included in the penal code. In addition, we have set up an investigation to propose an increase in the minimum penalty for severe female poverty, which has also been lifted earlier today. It's an extremely serious crime. Madam President, I would like These were some things the government is working on, but we need to do a lot more. I welcome this debate because we are not ready until the violence against girls and women has been eradicated.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-77	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his speech. As I said in my speech, at least I do not see this issue as primarily a social policy issue. It is not really a gender equality issue either, because it is a matter of serious criminal offences. Instead, it is a question of justice policy. So it is men who commit serious crimes and who have earned the right to be in prison so that they cannot commit new crimes and so that the victims can get redress. Unfortunately, that perspective is not always as prominent in government policy as it deserves to be. I note that one of the five points in the Minister's speech was about this, and it is so extremely central. What is the government doing more specifically to ensure that victims of crime, those women who are suffering so badly today, really get the redress they deserve – and which they do not get today many times?
i-9f29e8c4097be860-80	Madam President, I would like I fully agree that committing these serious crimes must have consequences. Of course, it is an extremely important part of protecting women. We are now looking at the possibility of tightening up the penalties for gross women's freedom. In the great effort now being made to expand the police, these crimes must be included, and we must ensure that more crimes are cleared up. In particular, the police are investing in 350 new employees to work with these crimes. It's absolutely central. They will also work with methods to get better at clearing up the crimes. On that point, the police are different good people around the country. This issue is a key element in combating violence against women. But we also need to work to prevent violence in order to ensure that the crimes do not occur at all. We have to work on several fronts at the same time. In particular, the issue of consequences for committing these crimes is crucial. I agree with the honourable Member there.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-83	Madam President, I would like I think everyone agrees that it is about doing several different things at the same time – preventing crime and ensuring that they do not occur. Nor, however, should it be an excuse not to do what is required today to mark against those who still choose to expose women to violence. The Parliament decided a year and a half ago that the minimum punishment for rape should be tightened. It is a very serious crime, and we see it as part of insecurity. There is still no investigation into the matter. When does one of these come from the government?
i-9f29e8c4097be860-85	Madam President, I would like Thank you for raising these issues. Of course, they are extremely important, and it is good that they are raised. What I can say is that Sweden has among the hardest sex crime laws in the world, and that is extremely good. Many crimes in Sweden are classified as rape, and it is absolutely right that we view these crimes as as as serious as they actually are. And it will have consequences to commit these crimes. The legislation has been tightened up in recent years, and it should be in parity with how serious these crimes actually are.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-88	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask a question in connection with the debate by the Minister for Gender Equality in the newspaper ETC a few days ago. It consists of painting certain groups of people in Sweden, so-called friends of Sweden, as haters of Sweden. The Minister believes that they paint a false and exaggerated picture of reality. The reality can stand here and argue over for years, but I would like to take an example, namely the insecurity of young women in Uppsala. It seems the point is to point out that Ebba Busch has made a wrong statement. In this context, and in view of the other conclusions drawn in the text, I would like clarification from the Minister. Does the Minister think that the image of young women's insecurity is exaggerated?
i-9f29e8c4097be860-90	Madam President, I would like There is an enormous hatred of women on the Internet. Women are to be raped. Immigrants are to be shot. Mosques and synagogues will be burned down. That's the hatred that's online right now. I will never fold or put my head in the sand when it comes to the kind of hatred we see online. This affects the social climate in general. It seeps into our thoughts in different ways. Not least the exterminators have raised the fact that there are signs in the time now that are the same as those that existed in the 1930s. I won't be silent. I will not remain silent about the hatred that exists online and calls for women to be raped. I will always stand up for women and girls to be safe in public spaces, at home, at school and at work. There is no doubt whatsoever. Are women and girls safe out in the public room now? No, they're not. We must do something about that, and we must be able to keep two thoughts in our heads at the same time.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-94	Madam President, I would like It is great that the Minister for Gender Equality does not stick his head in the sand in those questions, but it was not really the answer to my specific question about women's insecurity. But I am going to give the opportunity to develop the answer: what do the Minister for Gender Equality and the Government do more concretely to tackle insecurity, which stems from the fear of being subjected to precisely men's violence against women?
i-9f29e8c4097be860-96	Madam President, I would like I thought I was very clear that I did not accept the violence. I am constantly clear on these issues. We don't accept the violence. What do we do? Yeah, we're expanding the police. There will be 350 new employees to ensure that these crimes have consequences. There is also currently an investigation that looks at the safety of our workplaces. If you are subjected to sexual harassment at your workplace, what we have seen throughout the Metoo movement, there must be consequences. It does not have enough consequences today, and we need to change that. Thank you, Member of Parliament, for raising these issues and giving me the opportunity to clarify!
i-9f29e8c4097be860-99	Madam President, I would like At the moment, municipalities throughout the country are making massive cuts in the very activities that are intended to safeguard the right of women and children to help and support. It is very worrying that, instead of strengthening welfare, the current government has chosen to reduce taxes. My question to Åsa Lindhagen is how the government can guarantee that our operations can protect women and children when they are forced to make huge cuts.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-102	Madam President, I would like I welcome the debate on welfare and how incredibly important it is to build a strong society. Now we are many parties discussing these issues, and I think that is a good thing. We have been shooting at welfare billions since before, and there will be more contributions. Of course, it is extremely important that municipalities can take responsibility for providing protection for women and children. The honourable Member also raised the issue of the conditions for our women's shelters, which are extremely important for women to be able to leave a violent situation. I think there are many of us who agree to strengthen welfare and see those needs. It is a discussion that we need to continue, not least to ensure that society can provide support and help to people who live in great vulnerability. Among them we have violent women, and we have children who father very badly.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-106	Madam President, I would like I am pleased to hear that the Government is pleased with the discussion on welfare. But I think we need to do more than talk about it. More resources must be made available. As I said, the death investigation is not a pleasant reading. It clearly shows that there are enormous shortcomings in our system in how we detect and respond to violence. To do that, resources are needed. That is why I am really concerned that such large cuts are now being made. It will hit violent women and children hard.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-108	Madam President, I would like It is important that these issues are highlighted. It is also extremely important for local government politicians to give priority to the issues, both by providing conditions at the state level and having overall responsibility for the situation throughout the country and by ensuring that local government politicians constantly highlight the issues. I've been working on these issues in my previous role when I was at the municipal level. It is a matter of prioritising and really providing resources for that work. There we have a job to do at the national level as well.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-110	Madam President, I would like I would also like to raise the debate that has been in ETC and TV4 regarding my party leader, Ebba Busch Thor. She mentioned a year ago that she had seen in a study by Region Uppsala that only two out of ten young girls felt safe in the city and that insecurity had increased by 60 percent. She highlighted this point. Now the Minister for Gender Equality goes out and says that my party leader is an enemy of Sweden and a hater of Sweden. Isn't that very remarkable? Does the Minister for Gender Equality seriously mean that Ebba Busch Thor is a Swedish enemy? As I see it, it is extremely valuable that she highlights the issue of insecurity for girls and then specifically in Uppsala, from which she comes. She wants to counteract it. As the TV4 journalist said: Isn't it the case that the Minister for Gender Equality himself has to start with hate sermons?
i-9f29e8c4097be860-115	Madam President, I would like I was clear in my debate article. We see the hatred online. It is an incredible misogynism, which I also gave examples of earlier. It's a question we need to talk about. The people who write that women should be raped, that politicians should be shot, that people who come here from other countries should also be shot, they are Swedish haters. They're the Swedish haters. Read my article! What I have then said is that in various ways this can seep into the general debate. That's another thing. But it affects the tone of how we talk. I think we need to talk a lot more about it. Now this issue is being dribbled away into something completely different. We need to talk a lot more about the security of girls and women in the public space. We need to do more to keep girls and women safe, but we also need to work against the hatred that exists online. We can never accept that it says that women should be raped.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-119	Madam President, I would like Our party leader has absolutely never defended this kind of hate online, of course not. What she did was to highlight the insecurity of young girls in Uppsala. Shouldn't that be welcomed? Isn't it time the Minister for Gender Equality here today apologized to Ebba Busch Thor? I think it would be very dressable. We must ensure that we act on the part of society. We must speak out loud about reality. Otherwise, we risk others taking matters into their own hands.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-121	Madam President, I would like I welcome both these debates. I think it should be welcomed to highlight the hatred that exists online, which I have tried to highlight. We see this incredible hatred online. I think we need to talk more about it. We need to talk about both these issues, about the security of girls and women in public space and about having people writing this way online. They're pointing it straight at women. It is also a threat to women's security. Both of these issues I welcome the fact that we are talking about, and I think we need to talk a lot more about them.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-123	Madam President, I would like Last week we were on a panel discussion, where two young girls described how they had been forced to flee their families when they had been subjected to honorary repression. One girl described that she had lived in 14 different accommodations, since the community had failed to protect her and her mother. She also described that a younger girl living on a women's shelter had relations with her father. During the placement, during the investigation that took place on the basis that he was suspected as a rapist, he managed to take away the girl and her siblings. This is something I have seen many times. I think it's not news to us, but we let it continue and happen over and over again. It also affects women's ability to leave violent men when you can never guarantee their children's safety.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-127	Madam President, I would like It was incredibly hard to hear the story of this child. A woman was on a women's shelter for security, and so the man takes her child. I think that we have a very strong parent's right in Sweden that takes precedence over children's rights to security and protection and that this is a clear example of that. I think there are many different things we need to do, but we need to start by having a stronger perspective on children's rights. We have also heard stories about children who are torn out of school, a place where teachers have done everything to make the child feel safe, to be brought to a father whom the child is terrified to meet. There is something wrong somewhere when we place so little emphasis on the child's own thoughts and opinions and what is in the child's interest.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-130	Madam President, I would like In a variety of areas, I think that together in here we note what you say, Åsa Lindhagen – that the perspective on children's rights is far too weak. I myself was an investigator and developed a national strategy against men's violence against women, and I was surprised at that time that we did not have one in place to combat violence against children. Do you see that there is something we need to develop and set up an investigation for, in order to get a more coherent policy and identify in which areas we are failing and where we have legislation that is actually sufficient?
i-9f29e8c4097be860-132	Madam President, I would like Yes, this issue has also been raised by children's rights organisations. We need to do more to combat violence against children. We have said in the budget proposal for 2020 that we should take a concerted approach to the issue of violence against children. Yes, it is a very important issue that has been raised. How do we do this? This also applies to the specific issue of a strategy against violence against children. That is a question we are allowed to take with us in that work. These are very important issues that the honourable Member raises.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-135	I would remind Members to speak through the President in this debate as well.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-136	Madam President, I would like I know that the issue of men's violence against women is broad. But I started very deliberately by talking about the ultimate result of men's violence against women. There were 22 killed women only in 2018. This has to stop. The government has moved forward positions in recent years. We need to do what is in our power as a society and attack violence on all fronts. Work on 10 000 more police workers by 2024 is also important on this issue. Operation Dawn, where the Police Authority is now strengthening with 350 specialists across the country, will make a difference. At the same time, we are making it a crime to allow a child to witness crimes committed against his or her loved ones and to tighten up the demands for sentenced persons to participate in treatment. But there is still a great deal of work that we have to do together. The work against men's violence must be more clearly about men's participation and responsibility. If men's violence against women is to stop, it is we men who must change. It's not about us men being ashamed of us being men. But if there's something we should be ashamed of as a society... and there's something that really pisses me off... it's that women are killed in our country after they've been subjected to violence by a partner or a former partner. One in four women has at some point been subjected to violence in a close relationship. We need a society that continues to work on what has begun. And we men have to do more. No one can be blamed for the crimes of others. But all of us men have a special responsibility to stand up for the masculinity and humanity that we want to see. We can never turn our eyes away. I would like to thank the Left Party for the initiative.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-141	Madam President, I would like I asked the minister a question before. I didn't think I got an answer. But this is not at all in the Ministry of Labour, it is in the Ministry of Justice. That's why I'm trying again now. It's about the investigation into increased punishment for rape. It has now been over a year and a half since we decided on it in this House. Still the government hasn't even set up an investigation. Isn't that very weak? I also wonder about the punishments for gross female defamation. There are concrete requests for consideration in the spring. Will the Social Democrats support our proposals on this point?
i-9f29e8c4097be860-144	Madam President, I would like These are really important questions. I am absolutely convinced that Mr Forssell knows that the election promise of the Social Democrats was to tighten the law on rape. That investigation will be completed in the near future. When it comes to gross women's freedom, an investigation is under way which, after the summer, will present its report. It will be an important basis for the further work we do in Parliament – it will be the same as when we legislate in all other areas.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-146	Madam President, I would like It does not change the fact that the government has allowed it to go over a year and a half without even setting up an investigation. If you think it's that important, you can actually speed things up. I don't really get this to go together. The investigation is unconditional. It's supposed to analyse whether to tighten the penalty. There's no expression of will. We Moderates, on the other hand, have expressed a clear and clear desire for the penalty to actually be tightened up. What do the Social Democrats think? Do the Social Democrats have any opinion on the matter?
i-9f29e8c4097be860-148	Madam President, I would like Yes, we do. We also think it should be tightened up. I think it is a bit bleak to stand in the Chamber and give the impression, in the area of justice, that the government is not delivering on these issues. It does so fully, both when it comes to combating gang crime and when it comes to tightening up legislation. There are about fifty penalties in important areas. Clearly, the government delivers – also in close cooperation with the Liberals and the Center Party.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-149	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Fredrik, for the opportunity to ask questions to you! I have discussed something called Forced Marriage Unit on quite a number of occasions with Morgan Johansson – I have also discussed it with Åsa Lindhagen. He's sometimes said it's coming. It is a British model for combating forced marriage and for children and young people to be taken abroad for forced marriage. Is there anything going on? I have not yet seen such a thing.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-151	Madam President, I would like I think that the whole work we are now doing to strengthen the legislation on child marriage, illegal abduction and abduction will be an important part of it. I also know that during the previous term of office, and even now, Members have an interest in following other countries in order to see which parts could be brought in more clearly. But legislatively, it is a work that is under way and will be dealt with here in the future.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-152	Madam President, I would like We from the Christian Democrats have already, in our alternative budget, put 10 million to start a unit within Noah with the police. In the UK, the Ministry of Interior and Foreign Affairs cooperates. Here in Sweden, only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is now acting. The question is: how can the Social Democrats ensure that in the near future we get something similar to the British model? That sounds very fuzzy from the Member of the Social Democrats.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-154	Madam President, I would like The product we will present to Parliament will be anything but fuzzy and unclear. It is a very clear statement that children should not enter into marriage, that they should not be able to be married away and that society needs to work more strongly and more clearly together. Then the government can come back if it means clearer and more assignments to authorities.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-155	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member referred to Aftonbladet's series of articles. It has also revealed that we have 800 hidden and forgotten women and children who have been subjected to crime and who are at risk of being subjected again. They must escape on their own many times. They do not receive the support and protection they need and are entitled to. What is the honourable Member's view of the need to draw up a survey to identify the reality of the situation of vulnerable women and children? And what steps must be taken?
i-9f29e8c4097be860-157	Madam President, I would like I think we have a lot of knowledge. I myself have had the opportunity to investigate how we can strengthen the protection of children in sheltered housing and have presented proposals to the government that are now being processed in the Government Office. Knowledge is great. Now it's about going to work and having a whole society that's strong and that can make a difference.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-159	Madam President, I would like I'm sorry, but I don't really think it's that simple. Women and children have been interviewed in this extensive study. It turns out that today they are allowed to flee on their own. There's no good cooperation between social services and the police. The primary task of the police is to prevent crime from being committed. Yet we do not manage to protect these women and children properly.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-160	Madam President, I would like I share the view that this is an area where we need to do more. I think we can learn not least from Iceland, which has a clear consequence of action when an alarm comes. The authorities have clear mandates, and I think there is a good development in this area. But clearly women and children who are exposed and end up in this situation need to feel that the whole of society is backing up and ensuring that they have security.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-161	Madam President, I would like It is not difficult to describe in words the problems that exist; several speakers have done well. But it is not words that will solve these problems. If lack of words had been the reason for today's vulnerability and insecurity, these problems would not have existed. What can really change today's situation is concrete action. I mentioned two proposals in my previous speech, more stringent penalties for gross female discrimination and compulsory detention in more cases than today. I shall now turn to some further proposals that could produce results. A ban on contact with the anklet should be used in more cases. In this respect, legislation should be amended so that women who are victims of crime do not have to wait for a ban on contact to be broken before the ban on anklets is imposed, as is the case today. Instead, a risk assessment should be carried out on a case-by-case basis so that more violent women can be protected by this technique. We also want to introduce a new confidentiality-breaking provision into the health care system so that information can be released to the police so that more women can be protected. We want to strengthen the victim perspective and increase compensation in damages to those who are victims of such a crime. We even want to double the violation compensation. As I mentioned earlier, we also want to tighten the minimum penalty for rape from two to three years. So it is not just a question of saying the right things; it is also a question of doing them. I think it is a problem that so long has passed without even an investigation having started, and I ask myself: Do you really think this is as important as they say? While nothing happens, reality continues out there. All in all, these points could lead to concrete change today.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-170	Madam President, I would like It is mainly in municipalities where Johan Forssell's colleagues govern that the procurement I talked about earlier takes place. Therefore, I would like to ask Johan Forssell: What is your message to the women's shelters and to the violent women and children who receive their help? Will you continue to open up the non-profit emergency services and turn men's violence against women into a commodity?
i-9f29e8c4097be860-171	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to look at the results rather than have ideological blind spots. In Gothenburg, for example, which is often mentioned, the number of places has actually increased. Thanks to moderate politics, there are more of them now than before. The Left Party must also think that it is positive and good. Who runs this can be no more decisive than that enough women get the help and support they need.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-173	Madam President, I would like Well, it matters who runs these hotlines. It is the voluntary women's shelters and their work that underpins the fact that we have made progress in these matters at all. They're the ones who protect women and children. To eliminate them is to put women's and children's lives in real danger, so it really matters who is the performer. However, I understand that you do not intend to take responsibility for preserving the great knowledge and support that exists for women and children, but that this activity too should be run with profit.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-175	Madam President, I would like I intend to take my responsibility for giving it to the women in need of help and support. I can only say that when we rule in municipalities there will be more places than it was before. I think that is positive, and I am not going to apologize for that. It is strange to hear from the Left Party that it would be almost more important to have fewer places so that fewer women can get help and support only the hotlines are run in a certain way. I do not think it is responsible, and I wonder what the women who today get these places and this help think and think about that proposal.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-177	Madam President, I would like In my previous speech, I mentioned a number of measures that the Swedish Democrats as a party have been pushing for for a number of years. These are concrete measures that we believe would make a real difference to those women who have been or are at risk of being subjected to violence and oppression. These are concrete measures that can be achieved with political will. It is easy to get caught up in what is concrete, i.e. what can be put on and can be legislated on. At least as important is what is under the surface, what the metoo autumn and the 22 women in 2018 testified about: that Sweden is in need of a social change in value. We need a strong civil society with civil courage and respect for the borders and integrity of other people, where a blow or forced sexual rapprochement is considered wrong for whatever reason. In my world, there are no extenuating circumstances when it comes to violence against women. There are no excuses, explanations or external factors that amplify the fact that one's poor morals and lack of respect harm other people. Madam President, I would like I do not know whether it is possible to legislate for good morals and sound human respect, but I know that we need to test all the methods available to combat violence against women. If we start in here with laws, forms and decisions and continue out there with civil courage, courage, consideration and respect, I think we can achieve a great deal together. Finally, I thank all the parties for a good debate so far, and I hope that we will never have to have this debate again.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-182	Madam President, I would like As I was preparing for this debate, I found a long series of remarkable statements and expressions of the views of Swedish democratic representatives with the cape directed towards feminism and women's rights. A former Member of Parliament has stated that violent women may blame themselves if they do not leave men who strike. Another representative has asked for something strange which I would like to have explained: that a leading political representative of another party should be culturally enriched. What is meant by a Swedish democrat saying, "Cultural enrichment"?
i-9f29e8c4097be860-184	Madam President, I would like It is probably best that Johan Hedin turn to that person if he wants an answer to what that person meant. My job is to represent the policy pursued by the Swedish Democrats. My job is not to distance myself from what former Swedish democrats have said. That would be a very strange order. I could certainly find similar statements from the Center Party, but I do not think that this debate should be held at that level.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-187	Madam President, I would like This is a recurring pattern among Swedish democratic representatives. I would like to see Mr Ebba and other good representatives of your party – although I do not agree with what you think on the substance – cleaning up such. In the Center Party we had an example of a very inappropriate judge. That person went out with his head ahead. Since then, I have seen no further example. On the site interrasistmen.se you will find these statements, and I recommend Ebba to take a look at it and think about what the Swedish Democrats are doing.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-190	Madam President, I would like I will, and I thank you that I was called good; it warms. Believe me when I say that I am doing what I can so that these people will not be allowed to represent my party. It hurts me to have to stand in this Chamber and take responsibility for what other representatives have said when my true commitment and my only will is to stop men's violence against women.
i-NqXsXQYUjnuLEgRCrZ2UPi	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Hermansson! In the case of violent women, regardless of the reason why they and their children are vulnerable, the housing issue is central, along with the right to freedom and integrity. Today there is often a lock-in effect on women's shelters, which is why there is a huge need to get priority to the housing queue, whether it is in their own municipality or in cooperation with other municipalities. How do you view this?
i-9f29e8c4097be860-194	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. It is extremely important, as Juno Blom says, that you have access to your own home and also that you can get away from a home where you have a partner who treats you in an undesirable way. I personally am not the one holding the housing issues in my party, so I cannot give a well-developed answer about this here today. However, I can come back to the honourable Member at a later stage with an answer.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-197	Madam President, I would like I fully respect the fact that we cannot be responsible for all the different policies. I think it is incredibly important that we see the need for these situations to give us an opportunity to find a new place. Especially for children, it is often difficult to get into school, have the opportunity to attend preschool and also create a new life. I very much appreciate that Ebba Hermansson will pursue this issue with his party colleagues.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-200	Madam President, I would like We will, of course, do this. I thank you for an interesting change of line and also for previous shifts with Juno Blom, whose competence in this area I really respect. I hope that we will come up with new proposals on the right to self-occupation. I will, of course, pursue this issue within the framework of my area, along with the person holding the property itself.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-202	Madam President, I would like I'm a politician who's not very good at being mouthcuffed for the sake of mouthcuffing. I just don't think it's very funny, but sometimes it's necessary. I believe in cooperation and that the best results come out when we give and take and when everyone contributes their knowledge and ideas. Let me present some of the Center Party's ideas on measures that we believe will make a difference. The Center Party sees it as unreasonable for a man who killed a woman to be given custody of their common children afterwards. This should not be possible at all, and I note that the honourable colleague and good friend Juno Blom from the Liberals make the same point. Another point is that a woman who is granted a residence permit on grounds of affiliation and who leaves her husband is no longer a relative. That's why she's in danger of being expelled. However, if the separation is due to the fact that the woman has been beaten by her husband, she should be granted a residence permit in Sweden. Controlling behaviour in close relationships should be criminalised to a greater extent. A woman who is forbidden to associate with friends, prevented from going out and subjected to psychological abuse in the form of condescending and offensive comments should be protected criminally. And maybe we have the most important thing. I am not the one who always proposes stricter penalties as a solution to all the security problems, but a penalty is very important in these cases. In the case of serious women's poverty and gross violations of peace, one should be sentenced to imprisonment for at least one year, partly because prison is also effectively sanctioned and partly because it allows more means to work with the police and prosecutors. Mr Désirée Pethrus of the Christian Democrats raised the issue of journal data, which may be extremely important for the investigation of crime. I note that the Moderates are also proposing this penalty. These proposals do not solve the whole problem, but they become part of a solution. I note that several parties are launching concrete proposals. Let us welcome them and wet them in our committees and elsewhere.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-211	Madam President, I would like It's good if we can find common things to push on. I've got a thought. What is very important is the National Centre for Women's Peace, which is located in Uppsala and which has now lost 10 million in its basic grant through the budget that the Center Party has developed together with the government. How can the Center Party agree to this at a time when we see an increase in violence? This is an important activity – how can the Center Party support it?
i-9f29e8c4097be860-213	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mrs Pethrus for the question. The National Centre for Women's Peace is an extremely important knowledge hub for all who work with this issue in Sweden. Although I would like them to have a lot of money, you cannot give everything to everyone at all times. But they have actually received a double grant in the past, so there are funds to work with. If more is needed, I will put all my energy into trying to strengthen their budget, but this is what is happening today.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-215	Madam President, I would like It's tragic. We in the Christian Democrats are putting back the 10 million in the coming years. We believe that it must be very important to help women who enter the clinical activity but also through the helpline available. Now you can apply for funding from the Gender Equality Agency. Is it really the case that the Centre Party prioritises the Equality Agency before the National Centre for Women's Peace, which is located in Uppsala?
i-9f29e8c4097be860-217	Madam President, I would like I think we need to see both things in this. The Centre for Women's Peace is extremely skilled at aggregating knowledge, but then a practical job is required at women's and girls' shelters. It requires another funding, and it is important that they have just every penny they need to work. There we are not in port, but there needs to be a major strengthening of that activity. I am more than willing to talk to the Christian Democrats about ideas on how we can develop this so that the women in Sweden who need support can get it.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-218	Madam President, I would like For 100 years, around ten people have died in terrorist acts in Sweden. The reactions of politics have rightly been powerful. We have tightened laws, invested in the police, increased surveillance and created a society in readiness. As Sarah Britz's type put it in GP, we have secured the public space in the name of terror, but despite the fact that 300 women have been murdered in ten years, we allow homes to remain crime scenes. We believe that it is now necessary for the government to act on the understanding that men's violence against women and honour-related violence is one of Sweden's greatest security threats. Here are some of our concrete proposals: 中 Strengthen women's shelters and stop commercialisation. 中 Appoint an accident commission for each individual death, including suicide, and follow up with concrete action plan. . Increase the knowledge of relevant social actors, and ensure that work against violence against women is prioritised. severe the penalties for women's freedom and serious women's freedom so that more than one person can be judged. Drive feminist politics so that men stop beating. We in the Left Party have been involved in pushing forward the Sex Purchase and Consensus Act, pushing for the strengthening of women's shelters, getting training efforts on our authorities and being one of the strongest voices to ban forced marriage. I am very proud of this, but none of it would have happened if we had not helped each other. We bear a joint responsibility for the cessation of men's violence against women, because it can be stopped if we want to. But then we need to act. We need to show together that men's violence against women does not belong in the 21st century.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-226	Madam President, I would like As I said earlier, we Moderates want to be able to use electronic monitoring, so-called anklet, as a first-hand measure. Today, legislation simply means that a restraining order must be violated before it is used, and then the damage may already be done. We have an announcement in Parliament, which I think is positive. But then the Left Party reserves itself against it on the grounds that it is an interference in the freedom of the individual, that is, the freedom of the offender, not the freedom of the woman who is subjected to crime, who is forced to hide with the children somewhere. Where is the gender perspective in this?
i-9f29e8c4097be860-228	Madam President, I would like A distinction should also be made between our policies. I do not know how specific this particular matter is, but sometimes we agree that there is a need for certain criminal measures, and sometimes we do not agree on that. Regardless of this, the problem is that we do not even get to the point that there is a charge or that there is even a restraining order. We think that is the biggest problem.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-229	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, this is not a one-off incident. Actually, the Left Party is against all punitive measures. Life sentence for murder when men kill their women, you're against it. You wanted to stop the increased penalties for serious violent crimes the other year, such as aggravated assault. You were against honour crimes being a separate offence, and you are against this protection for women who are victims of crime. It runs like a red thread in the Left Party's legal policy. Where is the gender perspective here?
i-9f29e8c4097be860-230	Madam President, I would like What separates us is what we believe has a real effect. We have different opinions about what is really going to prevent men's violence against women. Harder punishments rarely produce so much results. On the other hand, preventive work produces results. Feminist policy is absolutely central. And, as I said, we must ensure that the police and the judiciary have the right knowledge, so that people are prosecuted at all. We think that is a more successful way to go. That's probably the answer to your question, Johan Forssell.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-231	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Karlsson and the Left for this important debate. I have a question that I touched on a little earlier, and it concerns violence in same-sex relationships that has a strong connection with the sub-goal on men's violence against women but is not covered. This was criticised by several consultation bodies. When this came to Parliament, we felt that attention should also be paid to this. How does the Left Party see that men living in same-sex relationships should also be included?
i-9f29e8c4097be860-234	Madam President, I would like Of course, we must also ensure that people in same-sex relationships where violence takes place are protected. We also have this in our motion. I think there is also a need to look at the extent of violence. We need a survey of the situation also for victims of violence in same-sex relationships.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-235	Madam President, I would like What is important here is that Mr Brå has shown that violence against men is about the same amount as violence against women, which I was very surprised about. But with the fact that you have interim goals when you are going to work concretely with men's violence against women but do not involve same-sex relationships, I hope that maybe together with the Left Party we could find some way to get this into the sub-goals. The committee added honor-related violence. So perhaps the violence in same-sex relationships can also be included.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-236	Madam President, I would like What Mrs Pethrus says about the violence taking place there too is true, even if it is different. I think it is very important that we stick to the fact that it is the gender power regime that plays an extremely important role here. Whether or not the sub-goal is going in, I'm afraid to answer here and now.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-238	Madam President, I would like These are important issues. We Christian Democrats think that you can not only talk but that it must also be a workshop. That is why we have added more resources to our alternative budget that we had hoped would be heard. We're spending $250 million more on the police. We are adding, as I said, SEK 10 million extra to start a unit within the police, according to the British model, that can protect young girls and women from being brought out of the country for child and forced marriages. We also invest SEK 42 million more than the government at the National Centre for Women's Peace in Uppsala, which works to combat men's violence against women, and at the County Administrative Board's work in Östergötland for those who are victims of honour related crimes. We are therefore investing more resources than the government to really do something concrete. Why, then, should we act and put these resources in place? A 2017 study showed that violence in close relationships costs society at least SEK 13 billion per year. Care places, costs for the judicial system, sick leave costs etc. are part of this. Of course, human suffering cannot be calculated, nor can all the children who are victims of this violence be calculated directly or indirectly. It is urgent now to put the victims of crime at the centre. We need to tighten up the penalties, but we also need more resources to support vulnerable women. I also think that we need to discuss values in school and teach young girls to say no and to protect their own physical integrity. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, the government here has not been able to show how it is actually going to change this negative development of violence. There is a lot of talk in the feminist government workshop but unfortunately far too little action.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-242	Madam President, I would like For twelve years, I was responsible for coordinating Sweden's national work against honour-related violence and oppression. Through the national support phone, we learned about serious crime against children, young people and adults. It was about assault, child abduction, forced marriage, genital mutilation and extreme murder. It seemed strange that I reported criminal acts to a minister for gender equality. Of course I saw, and I still see it, that the issue of equality is central to the prevention of men's violence against women and honour-related violence and oppression. But once the violence happens, it is important that we never reduce it to a family problem or just a gender equality problem. It's criminality. When responsibility lies not clearly with our Minister for Justice but with our Minister for Gender Equality, it has serious consequences. The Stockholm police said in Dagens Nyheter in December 2019 that for many years it has been claimed that violence in close relationships has been prioritised. But now one admits that it has usually been a game for the galleries. It appears that tools are in place. It's all about using them. The only thing that distinguishes the police's approach to gang criminals' firearms violence from that to violence in close relationships is actually the attitude. If this attitude is to change, we must start in this House. This requires us to ensure that the police's efforts to combat violence in close relations have an impact throughout the country through clear action. I stand by the fact that we need to map out the situation of the hidden and forgotten children and women living in our society. A national strategy is needed to combat violence against children with a coherent policy.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-245	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you very much for this debate, for all the wise thoughts that have been highlighted and for the commitment that exists on these issues. There is a need for political commitment. We have much to do in the fight against men's violence against women and against honour-related violence and oppression. It is about violence in the home, in the workplace and out on our streets. We need to get to the standards that say that violent behaviour, control and oppression are okay. We need to be better at detecting those who have been subjected to violence so that they can be protected and supported. We must do more to ensure that the person who has practiced violence ends up doing so. And we need to do more to keep no child from growing up and being afraid. The fight against violence is not over until the day the violence has been eradicated.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-256	Madam President, I would like Hampus Hagman has asked me what proposals for changes to the Planning and Construction Act from the private initiative inquiry that the government will propose to the Riksdag. He has also asked when the government will present these proposals to Parliament. The issue of the right of private initiative, as the interpeller points out, is urgent. That is why the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party, in the January agreement, have decided that new rules on increased opportunities for private initiative should be introduced. The question of which amendments to the Planning and Construction Act will be proposed by the Government to the Riksdag is currently being prepared within the Government Office. I note that, on an overall basis, the consultation bodies are generally in favour of the proposal of the review study. At the same time, there are some critical comments on the proposals. This means that there are several detailed issues that need to be clarified before the government can present a proposal on the right of private initiative. The investigation's proposal adds new tasks to the county administrative boards. The financing of these proposals needs to be prepared within the framework of the budgetary process. Only then can the government submit a proposal on the right of private initiative.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-260	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Housing Per Bolund! Just before Christmas, the building committee in my hometown Gothenburg decided on what detailed plans to start working on in 2020. During this year, work on 46 detailed plans will be started, and of course it's great – they contain homes, schools and offices etc. – but we also need to remind ourselves that these have been in line for a long time. Long before the detailed plan work begins, the municipality makes a decision on what is called a plan decision. This is when the municipality announces whether it intends to work on the proposed detailed plan at all. Thus, for all the housing, offices, premises and preschools in the starting plan, the first decision – the plan statement – is a few years back in time, sometimes three four years. This is nothing new; during the last term of office I sat on the building committee in Gothenburg. Often when we left the plan, we announced that the plan would start in two to three years. We often talk in politics about the time between idea and ready-to-use housing having to be shorter. We also talk about the time it takes to plan homes to be shorter, and we often talk about the long appeal periods. But we also need to work out the long waiting times between idea and work even begins. Long waiting times at this stage are also not unique to Gothenburg. On the contrary, almost all municipalities have a so-called plan queue. Usually it is about two years of pure waiting time, but there are examples that it can take considerably longer than that – sometimes up to five years. What happens during this waiting period? Not much, and that is what my interpellation is about, among other things: How should the time between a positive plan decision and actually started work be better used? We need more housing, and our companies need more office space. We need more retirement homes, and in many parts of the country we also need new schools and preschools. Then the planning of these needs to go faster. The private initiative inquiry that came quite exactly a year ago makes several suggestions on how to make better use of the waiting period between plan notification and formal plan start. The study suggests that a provision should be included in the Planning and Construction Act for the municipality to report its assessment of the planning data that may be needed. It creates the opportunity for those who want to build to contribute this planning base themselves during the waiting period. The investigation also suggests that the plan stakeholders should be able to obtain an opinion from the County Administrative Board in order to reduce the risk that large complements of the detailed plan are needed at a later stage. Both of these changes could lead to a faster detailed planning process. The private initiative inquiry was submitted to the government a year ago. It was referred out, and the response from the consultation bodies came in before the summer. I simply wonder what has happened since then. What proposals will the government proceed with? Although it has now been six months since the referee came back, the government cannot give any information. The conclusion must be that it is not just the construction processes that are characterized by long waiting times but that something happens.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-268	Madam President, I would like I thank Hampus Hagman for making an interesting and important interpellation. Sweden is currently suffering from a huge housing shortage. Let me illustrate with Gothenburg, which both Hampus Hagman and I come from. The municipality states in its housing supply report for 2018 that a rough estimate is that 4 000 – 5 000 new dwellings are needed annually to overcome the housing shortage. Another way to describe the lack in Gothenburg is to look at the demand for rental apartments. The number of active applicants at Boplats Göteborg, which is the city's housing agency, was over 76,000 in 2016. Of these, just under 17,000 people living in Gothenburg lacked permanent residence. More than 6 000 have indicated that they live secondhand, and more than 10 000 have indicated that they are inherent. It is therefore 17 000 people, Madam President, who do not have stable housing conditions in Gothenburg. No figure gives a complete picture of the housing shortage, but one can say that each figure gives the same picture, namely that the shortage is huge. The deficiency is also not only found in Gothenburg; 240 out of 290 municipalities stated that they had a housing shortage in the Boverket housing market survey for 2019. The reasons for the housing shortage are complex and extensive, but an explanation you often encounter when you are out meeting builders, property owners and other actors is the time it takes from idea to finished house. Despite the fact that there are builders who want and can build and people who need a place to live, it takes too long to get ready homes. Dagens Nyheter did 2016 a review of all 25 000 dwellings in apartment houses that were completed the previous year. The review showed that it takes an average of ten years from a municipality's decision on land allocation or detailed planning process to a completed dwelling. Madam President, I would like Now the detailed planning process, which this interpellation debate is about, does not take ten years, but according to Sweden's Municipalities and Regions' open comparisons from 2018, the median time is barely two years only for the detailed plan. Almost every tenth municipality indicates a median time over three years. It is really interesting in open comparisons when you look at the municipalities that have adopted more than ten detailed plans and have the longest median time, because there are almost exclusively municipalities with a lot of construction. I would say, Madam President, that long processing times for detailed plans are at least partly due to a lack of capacity in the municipal planning processes. Where more people want to build, it also takes longer. One way to tackle the lack of capacity is to allow private initiative. This not only frees up the municipality's resources, but allows the construction operator to develop the plans to reduce the time itself at an early stage. My first question to the Government is therefore quite similar to that put by Hampus Hagman, Madam President: within what timeframe is the Government prepared to strengthen and clarify the possibility of the right of initiative of construction operators? And should the Government's response to the interpellation be interpreted as being timely at the earliest with the next regular budget preparation process?
i-9f29e8c4097be860-276	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking Hampus Hagman for raising this issue so that we can discuss it. At the same time, I note that Hampus Hagman has quite a wide-open door in this case. It is not that private initiative is not something the government is working on. It is not the case that there are no decisions to implement this. Anyone – including Hampus Hagman – can read the January Agreement and note that there is a point that clearly states that private right of initiative should be implemented. This means, of course, that there will be a bill with this content. We have an investigation that has made proposals and, as usual, these proposals need to be prepared within the Government Office. It is, of course, a dear subject for the opposition to pretend that it would not have to have this cumbersome preparation in the Government Office – in which one actually tries to resolve different conflicts of interests – if only the opposition were in government. It is well worth recalling that this was actually exactly what the Government Office was doing even at the time when the Christian Democrats and the Moderates were in government and that it sometimes took a little time to move from investigative proposals to a ready-made bill precisely because there were different forms of goal conflicts. It is very clear on the part of the government, and in the January agreement, that we are going to come forward with proposals in this area. At the same time, there are some points of view that we have a responsibility to take into account. That's why – precisely to find out about doubts and problems that may need to be resolved – we make a consultation and bring in referral points. I am not saying that it will decide the issue, but in this case there are, for example, municipalities that are doubtful that the municipality should give its opinion in a decision on a plan at the request of the plan stakeholder on what planning basis might be needed. They believe that it can lead to additional work in reviewing the data before the municipality has started working on the proposal for the detailed plan. There are also some municipalities and county boards that are negative to the fact that plan stakeholders on their own, on the basis of the municipality's decision to plan, should be able to obtain the county board's views on what planning data should be needed. I mentioned in my reply that, if it is to be possible to implement this, it is also necessary for the County Administrative Board to have the capacity to handle the requests that come in. Without more resources, there is a great risk that what is shortened in time at the municipality instead gets stuck in long handling times at the county administrative boards. This is a development that no one is valiant of, because our common interest is that we should shorten the processing time so that we can go faster to construction projects. It is also important to see that there are bodies at the other end who do not think that the investigation's proposals go far enough. We also have a responsibility to listen to them. For example, several construction companies and their associations have opposed the requirement that the plsystem must comply with the master plan and the county board's review opinion in order to obtain the county board's views. Property owners believe that further investigation is needed to ensure that decisions made by both the Riksdag and the Government as well as the wording of the January Agreement are complied with. There is therefore a fairly broad range of views on how to interpret the concept of private initiative and what content you see within that framework. After all, we are in a situation where there is no clear definition of what is a private right of initiative, but that is what the government intends to come up with in connection with the January agreement and further work. I am anxious that we should be able to act. The January Agreement shall be implemented. We have the intention to implement every item of the January agreement, including the paragraph on the right of initiative. Then we can see that this is far from the only thing we do. We have an overall regulatory review, and we have already come forward with proposals for larger complementary residential buildings, a developed overview planning and the like. We will continue to work on private initiative as well.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-289	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Per Bolund once again for his answers. In my last speech, I pointed out that the waiting period between planning and the start of work had to be better used. As I said, this waiting period today is on average two years. There are examples that sometimes it goes much faster, but there are also examples that it goes much slower. By creating better conditions for those who want to build themselves to make the necessary investigations, this waiting time can be better used and the work carried out much faster. But there are more benefits. Not only are all those looking for a home or the companies looking for new office premises benefiting from more efficient planning work, but the municipalities also have a lot to gain from this. As I mentioned earlier, the municipalities are working hard. Planning capacity is probably very close to the ceiling in many of our municipalities, and the pressure is high. By allowing more people to contribute to planning, the heavily burdened municipalities can be relieved and the limited planning resources used much better. It is also the case that a way of working where plan stakeholders have the opportunity to do a larger part of the investigation work means that the risk for municipalities is reduced if the economic cycle folds. If construction were to be greatly reduced, the municipalities that have built large planning organisations would now be in danger of sitting with huge excesses to deal with. It is interesting that the investigation notes that it is already possible for plan stakeholders to contribute with planning data today, but that at the same time this needs to be explicitly stated in the Planning and Construction Act. This is good because assessments around the country differ – some municipalities are flexible; others are restrictive. That is why I am pleased and I think it is good that the government is nevertheless saying that this is an urgent issue, although we may not be told here today what is actually going to happen. Per Bolund raised the issue of costs for county administrative boards and argued that this was a cost issue. It can be discussed, but since we agree that the issue is urgent, I wonder whether the government cannot already go forward with those elements that are not at risk of increasing costs. On the one hand, it is about the aforementioned clarification in PBL that the plan stakeholders can actually contribute, and on the other hand it is about municipalities to provide information on the planning basis that may be needed already in the planning decision. These proposals do not stand and fall together. Although the whole picture is of course the best, only these changes would be a major step forward. Is it possible – if you are concerned about the development of costs – to go forward with individual parts of the investigation?
i-9f29e8c4097be860-298	Madam President, I would like The government was talking about a wide-open door. One might say that it is not enough that the door is open; someone must also go through the door. The Government and I have had some exchanges in this House about the government's pace of reform, or lack of pace of reform, in housing policy. It should be noted that in the January agreement to speed up the construction process is good, but good wording will not solve the housing problems unless they are put into practice in sharp proposals. According to the report, the additional workload for the county administrative boards is estimated at three years' labour force or 3 million SEK annually. With all due respect, Madam President, the total funding allocated by the county administrative boards in 2020 was 3.2 billion. It is therefore 3 million that should be set in perspective to 3 billion SEK. It is therefore a question of an increase in resources to the county administrative boards of just under 1 per mille. Madam President, I would like The interim report of the investigation was submitted in January 2019. A year later, the Government refers to budgetary issues as reasons for delaying the reform, in my view, says more about the power of the Government than about the insurmountability of the budgetary problem. It is one thing to promise reforms and another thing to make sharp proposals. I believe that in this House we will have to return to the pace of government reform, or lack of pace of reform, in housing policy. It is one thing, as I said, that the door is wide open; it is another thing that the government actually has to go through the door. With this, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for this debate.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-304	Madam President, I would like As you know, it is easy to be sweeping in parliamentary debates when you do not have to take government responsibility. David Josefsson himself can make constructive suggestions on what he thinks the county boards should not engage in to make room for dealing with private initiative rights. It is, of course, legislation that is clubbed in this Parliament that the county boards are set to handle and that they have also received funding for. A little respect for the work of the authorities and the fact that the authorities also have a difficult priority work would seem to me to be appropriate in this House. I want to make it clear that the government is in favour of the investigation's proposal on the private initiative. The fact that the private initiative is mentioned in the January agreement also makes it abundantly clear. Paragraph 46 provides for the introduction of new rules on increased possibilities for private initiative, while maintaining municipal responsibility for planning, planning and housing provision. That concludes the question. We're gonna come up with this. We have already started work on implementing all the points of the January Agreement, and this point will also be implemented. The details of the government's proposals are currently being prepared within the Government Office. Our preliminary assessment is that most of the investigation's proposals should be implemented, which should be a positive response to the interpeller. However, we see that resources need to be added to the budget, just as it is always when demands are made, for example, for municipalities or authorities to carry out additional tasks. In this context, I would like to take this opportunity to point out that the Planning and Construction Act and its management are a whole. One must ensure that each part works in order to have security in the planning process and be able to get it going as quickly as possible. In the study on developed overview planning, it is noted that there is a close connection between, as it says, the conditions for private initiative and overview planning. Now there is a proposal on Parliament's table for a developed overview planning. I must say that I am very surprised when I read the Christian Democrats' response to the bill and read the motion that has been put forward. They say that they want to remove the land guide map from PBL, which would mean no less than a basic shot against the entire Planning and Construction Act and its handling, thus making it virtually impossible for private initiative in its entirety. If you are going to pursue a political issue, it is very good if you do so in a way that is uniform and that you do the same in two different political processes. It would be interesting to hear how Hampus Hagman views it. In principle, destroying the outline planning is not the best recipe to ensure that the master plan can be used to go ahead with the implementation of private initiative. It is good if your political proposals are linked. I am pleased that we are debating the right of private initiative. But it is only a proposal for a large and broad range of political measures that the government, together with our cooperation parties, is working to implement precisely because we have high ambitions. We want to see a continued increase in housing construction and that the costs of building go down to build even for those with less thick wallets. We note that during this government and the previous term of office, construction has reached a much higher level than it ever was during the time when it was a bourgeois government and a Christian-Democracy Minister of Housing. This is a work that we intend to continue to deepen. We will ensure that construction can be maintained at a high level and that we are able to build for the needs that exist.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-314	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Housing says I've wrapped a wide-open door. It is a good thing that the government says that private initiative is urgent and that it is positive. But then Per Bolund refers to the January Agreement. With all due respect, however, I would like to point out that we already know today that everything in the January agreement will not be implemented, because the door is open only when decisions are taken in this House. In order for decisions to be taken in this House, a government proposal with proposals is required. That is why I have asked when these proposals will come. I don't get an answer to that. Per Bolund is also very interested in telling us what the alliance government did and did not do. As in many debates, unfortunately, political representatives are hitting each other. Our government did very well, but much could have gone faster. The red-green government has also done some good things, but there is also some other things to wish for. I was not interested to hear what Per Bolund thought about the work of the alliance government. I was interested in what Per Bolund thinks about improving the conditions for planning housing in the future. That is what this debate is about, or should be about. I regret that the government today, one year after the investigation came and six months after the referrals gave their answers, cannot give an answer on this point.
i-9f29e8c4097be860-318	Madam President, I would like I've sent word. I've informed you that the government is in favour of the investigation's proposal. I have informed you that we believe that most of the investigation's proposals will be implemented. We work in cooperation with the Center Party and the Liberals as intensively as we can only implement that point in the January agreement. It's a wrapped road for us. I hope Hampus Hagman does not suspect that the government would be waiting for proposals that are ready and delayed unnecessarily. This is a point on which we agree, and then, of course, we are working as intensively as it is only possible to implement it. It is important that we know what reality we are in. I am pleased that we now have a housing building of 50 000 homes per year, which is considerably more than the average that has existed since the 1990s of around 30 000 homes a year, which comes to the housing market. This is something that we should be able to enjoy together rather than just criticise. It is a combination of many measures that have led to it. We are opening up new initiatives, such as the right of private initiative. I think a lot of people are looking forward to it being delivered. But it's just a little bit of a broad palette of measures. We are reviewing rental regulation and introducing investment aid that will lead to more new housing being built and coming into the rental market with lower rents than would otherwise have been built. We have an ambitious programme of simplification. We had a major investigation as late as December that we are now going through and going to carry out. We have also given the opportunity to build more complements of residential buildings and are working to get a better working overview planning. We are reviewing the building permit system and implementing many other measures that will be required to maintain a high rate of construction. My hope is to have an even higher build-up in the future. I think that Parliament has an important role to play in reviewing and making proposals. However, making proposals that there is already a political agreement to implement may not lead to the most action.
