i-dae4e3061563066c-8	Mr President, I would like to Kingdom government expenditure finances central government and several important authorities, state subsidies and commissions. Sweden – in addition to the pandemic – has to deal with high unemployment and serious crime. In the Moderate Budget Movement, we therefore focus on ensuring that Sweden is prepared for the pandemic to get worse, on breaking unemployment and on combating crime. The Corona crisis could get worse. Therefore, the Moderates' budget contains a crisis buffer. It can be used both to strengthen health care and to support the economy to push back unemployment. The Moderates will refrain from taking part in the grant decision because, in the first stage of the budget process, the majority of Parliament has chosen a different direction from that we wish, and instead we have a separate opinion. Nevertheless, I would like to present in this House some of the issues where we would have liked a different allocation of funds. Mr President, I would like to We focus heavily on preventing violent extremism. Once again, when Europe is shaken by Islamic terrorist acts, it sets the light on why this work is so important. The ruthless acts are terrible crimes against individuals but also serious threats to our liberal democracy. But also the violent right-wing and left-wing extremism is most present and must be countered wherever it appears. We have presented many measures in recent years to prevent this kind of extremism. Happily, in many cases, they have obtained approval, but there are still more preventive measures to be taken. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates want a thorough survey to be made of which religions have received foreign funding and if extreme interests have made the funds conditional in some way. We want the regulations on foreign funding of religious communities to be reviewed in order to prevent extremists from financing religious communities in Sweden. We Moderates also see a great need for an easily accessible and user-friendly information material for newcomers on human rights and freedoms, democracy, gender equality, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, honour-related violence and repression, genital mutilation and obligations and rights in Sweden. Anyone who comes to Sweden should not have to hesitate about what is expected of you and what rights you have. All these measures and many more are proposed within the existing financial framework. Unfortunately, we note that several of the Swedish religions have experienced an increased degree of threat, violence and harassment in recent years. In order to strengthen the security and security work of individual churches and communities, we therefore want to provide a further SEK 20 million per year for 2021, 2022 and 2023. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates believe that it is the responsibility of the state to fund measures against harmful animals. The county administrative boards can now contribute funds, but the proportion of protection hunts funded by county administrative boards differs between regions. Therefore, we contribute SEK 15 million per year in 2021 – 2023 to the grant 5:1 County Administrative Boards, etc. for the state to take the full cost of protecting predators. Mr President, I would like to The government has on several occasions in recent years been slow to return to Parliament with necessary proposals and other requested measures. There has also been an unwillingness to account for the expected effects of proposals in the budget proposal. Parliament's power of control is one of the foundations of our democracy, but when the government's information and presentation of the consequences of the policies that have been conducted is neglected, the parliament's opportunities for transparency are undermined. A greater workload in the form of preparation and scrutiny therefore falls to the Riksdag. As long as the Government does not meet reasonable demands for transparency and urgency, it is important that the Riksdag receive increased resources so that the parties of the Riksdag have more opportunity to examine and analyse the Government's proposals and also prepare their own proposals. Therefore, the Moderates propose to increase the grant 2:2 The Parliament's administrative grant by SEK 10 million for the years 2021 – 2023. Mr President, I would like to Finally, the Moderates allocate SEK 10 million annually for the years 2021-2023 to grant 3:1 Sametinget in order to strengthen the activities of the Sami language centre through the establishment of two additional Sami language centers.
i-dae4e3061563066c-21	Mr President, I would like to As the previous speaker has already mentioned, the whole society is currently affected by the China virus. Nevertheless, or perhaps even because of this, it is important that society continues to function as often as possible. Despite the need for social exclusion, it is important that society's basic services continue to function and that public authorities and works continue to serve the public. The Swedish Democrats' proposal for a budget is the option that we think best can offer a well-functioning state apparatus combined with sensible priorities on where the money can do the most good. We also believe that the ancient tradition of Swedish authority at its core offers both objectivity and impartiality, free from irrelevant considerations, corruption and clandestineness. This is the fund which is the starting point for Sweden's democratic policy in this area. The second obvious premise we assume is that Swedish administrative law principles with socially useful, effective authorities have emerged in symbiosis with the nation state and with democracy. We regard our budget option as a coherent package in which no part or part can be broken out and treated in isolation. The Swedish Democrats' overall proposals regarding the state budget are contained in our party motion. This statement refers to the area of expenditure l, the Kingdom government, and I will set out the main priorities. Support for political parties is reduced. Political parties should work to a greater extent to improve the efficiency of their own work. As regards the Government Office, some reinforcements of the appropriation have been announced by the Government, partly because of the forthcoming Swedish Presidency of the OSSE and the Council of the European Union. We support this. On the other hand, there is reason to question whether the steady increase in appropriations over time is justified, particularly when the number of government cases settled has remained largely stable since 2013/ 14. The Swedish Democrats are therefore lowering the appropriation. Another reduction concerns media support. True, the newspaper industry, like many others, has suffered the consequences of the Corona virus and lost advertising revenue. It is also important to be able to cover the so-called white spots in the country. The Swedish Democrats are therefore not against supporting local journalism, as the government announces. However, we believe that this is best helped by finding new technical solutions and by the media generally working to adapt their supply to demand. Media support in its current form is out of time, and the Swedish Democrats are therefore stepping down operating aid over a five-year period. However, this degression does not relate to distribution aid and to innovation and development aid or to support for local journalism. In these trying times, many will have to make sacrifices for the common good. This also applies, of course, to the media and newspaper industry. Moreover, when such a substantial increase in aid makes itself so dependent on the State, its independence risks being affected in the long term. I now turn to areas that we intend to develop and strengthen. The Swedish Democrats want to introduce a system of joint ballots as soon as possible. To make this possible, we want the election authority to start a preliminary study for this purpose. The Authority is therefore given an additional allocation. The Living History Forum has carried out efforts to strengthen the conditions for schools and others to make remembrance trips to the Holocaust memorial sites. This is very positive. As part of the strengthening of Swedish schoolchildren's knowledge of the other nefarious ideology of our time, namely communism, and its atrocities, as well as the ultimate consequences of far-reaching socialism, extra funds are allocated for school trips to memorial sites for the victims of Communism. In this connection, I would like to add that in this year's report we have a reservation that Sweden should honour the will of the vulnerable Jewish people and move the embassy to the capital of Israel, Jerusalem. Mr President, I would like to I touched the China virus in my introduction. Many older people are now sitting at home again and cannot go out. This is how, for Christmas with Advent celebrations, mulled mingles and grandkids' lucia trains, this isolation becomes even more evident. In general, making them feel meaningful is an important part of people's well - being. Older people who are troubled by loneliness, probably more than ever, feel sicker and tired and take more medicines than others. Involuntary loneliness is a social problem that needs to be dealt with as such. We believe that greater attention needs to be paid to the social needs of older people. The government should therefore consider the possibility of introducing an elder minister. I therefore support reservation number l. Finally, the Swedish Democrats believe that it is a bad thing that a few tech giants based in the United States and China, far away from the influence of the Riksdag and the Swedish people, today have in principle the exclusive right to dictate what is to be said on the social platforms. The Swedish Democrats believe that freedom of expression on the Internet is the most important issue of our time in order to ensure democracy, and we intend to pursue it in the future. Tech giants collect almost incomprehensible amounts of information about us via platforms and apps. In Sweden, the Swedish Data Protection Authority, which will soon change its name to the Swedish Data Protection Authority, has the task of ensuring compliance with information collection rules. The Swedish Data Protection Authority is also responsible for educating the public about the rights of individuals to protect their data. We are adding additional funds to the agency for this extremely important work. The fight for freedom of expression and integrity must be conducted everywhere and always.
i-dae4e3061563066c-37	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party wants an equal, sustainable and fair society. We want to reduce the gaps and strengthen general welfare with efforts to improve quality, better working conditions, more jobs and, not least, more well-being. In our budget exercise The way out of the crisis – a plan for equality and green transition, we present a reformed tax system to increase equality through redistribution and to succeed in the green transition. When each does things separately, regardless of the fact that our lives are bound together in a society, the rich draw away, the welfare collapses and the climate collapses. When we do things together, it gets better for all of us. Then we can strengthen welfare, increase freedom for the vast majority, create justice and equality and succeed in the necessary transition. Then we also create a strong society that can withstand and deal with the difficulties we face, for example in the form of the coronapndemine. Then we have a well-being that works. The Left Party's proposal in Category 1, which we are talking about now, is part of our common whole budget option. Since, in the first stage of the budgetary process, the majority of Parliament has given policy a different direction from that which we wish, we are abstaining from taking a position on appropriations in the field of expenditure. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to explain the priorities in this area that we want to do. Most of the people I bring up are different from the government. It is clear that further action is needed to strengthen the influence and ability of all national minorities to preserve and develop their languages. The Roma minority is particularly vulnerable to discrimination, including in the labour and housing markets. Cumulative cultural institutions are also missing for the group. Antiziganism is widespread throughout Europe, and work on Roma inclusion is needed and carried out throughout the EU – more or less successfully, I suppose. The budget therefore includes a special allocation for the Roma minority, an allocation of 1 1⁄2 million. We think that this is all too pitiful in view of the great needs that exist. That is why we propose to increase the funding and allocate EUR 12 million in order to be able to resume the great work that went on before 2019. Sameting is an important and very special institution. It is a parliament for the Sami and an authority with some specific tasks. The society represents Sami interests in different contexts. For many years there have been discussions to get a consultation order to strengthen the participation of the Sami people and make it possible to have a real influence on decisions affecting Sami interests. Now the government has flagged for a proposal on what such a consultation scheme should look like. In order for Sami organisations and Sami organisations to have effective opportunities to participate fully in consultations, resources are needed. The Left Party therefore allocates 10 million to this end. We also allocate half a million to the identification of Sami skeleton material in government collections, a survey of how museums and institutions have usurped the material and a re-emergence of the Sami remains. To further strengthen the important work with the Sami languages, we allocate 1 million to a scholarship scheme for language studies. In total, we are making an investment of 11 1⁄2 million on Sametinget. Yesterday, the JO presented its official report to the Riksdag, and it was very clear that Swedish authorities have shortcomings in meeting fundamental rights. Sometimes it sounds like everything is peace and joy when it comes to human rights in Sweden, but when you listen to the JO another picture fades out. A Swedish Human Rights Institute that can push for everyone to have their human rights respected is clearly needed. It is a good thing that the government is moving forward with this work and allocating funds for it. In our budget, we also allocate additional funds to the Swedish Data Protection Authority, which next year will change its name to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. It's a good name change because it says a lot more about what the authority does. The situation in the agency has long been strained with more tasks but not the corresponding addition of resources. For example, the processing times for permits for camera surveillance have been far too long. Many more personal data incidents have also been reported. They increased to more than double between 2018 and 2019. That is why the agency has not been able to carry out as much supervision in this area as it wanted. Has the government contributed more funds to the agency's important protection work? No, instead, the long processing time has been used as an argument to simply abolish the requirement for permission for camera surveillance in several cases. The Left Party believes that it is important to protect people's privacy, and therefore we set aside 20 million to enable the agency to fulfil its tasks, including inspections and supervision as well as handling of notifications in connection with GDPR and the Camera Protection Act. And how are we going to finance this? In our draft budget, we reduce the allocation to the royal state of court and palace by 19 million. For many years the grant has increased for various reasons such as weddings, baptisms and so on, but the grant has not since returned to previous levels. An interesting thing for this year is that the authorities that subsidize the government receive a reduced grant in something that the government calls a general saving. The Society will receive a reduction in funding. The Government Office, the County Administrative Boards, the Chancellor of Justice, the Privacy Protection Authority and so on are also affected by this, but not the Royal Court and Palace State. Instead, the government is increasing the budget by 3 million. We also reduce the fees to Members of Parliament. We believe that the parliamentary mission is an important position of trust. It goes without saying that Members should have good conditions and opportunities to carry out their duties. They should also not feel that they have to take other assignments alongside, because they really need to focus on the important mission here in the Riksdag. It should simply be well paid. At the same time, it is important that we, who represent the entire population, do not live under conditions that are completely different from those of most people. We have come to the conclusion that a reasonable level of the fee would be a price base, today SEK 47 300. It is also a very high remuneration but more than SEK 20 000 lower than today. One advantage of linking it to the price base amount is that it is a clear and firm basis for calculation that does not need to be decided specifically each year. In addition, we want to remove the additional allowances that are directly linked to the parliamentary mission, such as allowances for appointments as chairman and vice-chairman of the committees. This cost is not predictable because the committees themselves can decide to have several vice-chairmen. We now have several committees, for example, which have a chairman and three vice-chairmen. We think that is completely unreasonable. This means that we are reducing this appropriation by 121 1⁄2 million, that is, a little over 10 million a month just on Members' allowances. This is what we want to do in Category 1 and part of our budgetary option as a whole. We therefore refrain from taking a position there. In the other decision-making points relating to the change of name of the Swedish Data Protection Authority, the work of the Government Office and the extensive administration, we support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-FpD6S6fHhGUWi4C5V223nE	Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 4. Today we are going to debate Area of Expense 1 of the Kingdom Board, as the report is called. It is an important report and an important budget, and on our responsibility lies the funding of government, parliament, county boards, embassies and many other things belonging to the government of the country. There are also JO and Riksrevisionen and so on. It is important that the rather large budget that we have is not sidelined. We have had occasions in history, as I have seen, when the opposition may have reduced the appropriations and did not consider that democracy needs the funds required in the budget. This is especially true during the pandemic. During the pandemic, Sweden is under enormous pressure. Then the government and parliament must be able to adapt, as we see it, and be flexible with different ways of working and different ways of solving security to ensure that democracy and the values of democracy are safeguarded. I will not go into detail on everything the Christian Democrats want. I just want to say that we will not vote against the government parties' draft budget once our own has fallen. Instead, we have a special opinion and abstain from voting. We used to do that. I would just like to note that with the Christian Democrats' budget, Category 1 would have had an allocation of 122 million more. It had not least gone to the county boards, but at all it had gone to guard the institutions of democracy. Within our area of responsibility are also the embassies. The Committee on Foreign Affairs naturally decides on foreign policy on the part of Parliament, but it is our responsibility to decide how much the embassies should have and where they should be. That is why I am following up on a reservation made by the Christian Democrats in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Jerusalem. That's reservation four. Jerusalem is actually the capital of Israel. The Israeli Parliament, the Government Office, the residence of the Head of State, central authorities and the Supreme Court have long been located in Jerusalem. It gives the city the status of the capital. From a historical perspective, Jerusalem has never been the capital of any other country than Israel and never of any other people than the Jewish. The Jewish connection to Jerusalem dates back 3,000 years in history. Against this background, it is my view and that of the Christian Democrats that the Swedish Embassy should be moved at the appropriate time from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. The government should have this as a goal. Such a decision would send a clear signal to the parties in a possible future peace process that Sweden is serious when we argue for a just peace for all. Furthermore, I would like to highlight freedom of religion and belief as an important issue to take into account in the design of Swedish development cooperation. It is about freedom from coercion, freedom of expression and non-discrimination. Against this background, I believe that the government should ensure that all diplomats receive training on issues relating to freedom of religion. Furthermore, I believe that the government should appoint a special ambassador for religious freedom. It is a function that already exists in many other countries, such as Denmark. An ambassador for religious freedom may make demands when trade agreements are concluded or produce reports of human rights violations in countries that oppress religious minorities.
i-dae4e3061563066c-66	Mr President, I would like to Next year we celebrate that it is 100 years since the holding of the first general election in Sweden where women were also allowed to vote. Then our democracy had its final breakthrough, and of course we should draw attention to that in various ways, although the celebration may not be able to get the form it could have if we had not been in a pandemic. It is important to recall that democracy is not naturally given but something we must actively protect and nurture – and pay for. That is what we are doing through category 1 Kingdom government. It is the people's way of looking to get their will done in practical decisions. Here we find the financial framework for the business that takes place under this ceiling, or now sometimes via link. Here are the government's costs, Sweden's representation around the world and the Head of State's budget. This includes important control functions such as the Parliamentary Ombudsmen, the Swedish National Audit Office and the Swedish Data Protection Authority, which, as has been mentioned, should change their name, as well as the Swedish Justice and Election Authority. The central functions of our democracy are dealt with in this budgetary area. It is therefore a good thing that there is, to a large extent, political agreement on what the budget for these institutions should look like. For example, we can see that there is a broad political base behind the establishment of the Human Rights Institute. It will promote and follow the work of respecting human rights and will be an important part of making Sweden better at something that we, in an international comparison, are already very good at. But yesterday we received the Ombudsman's report, and just as Mia Sydow Mölleby pointed out, we get transparency in the corners of Swedish society and see things that we wish did not exist. So of course there are tasks to work with. Our national minorities fall within Category 1. Here are the Sami, our indigenous people, who existed long before Category 1 came into existence. We are working on strengthening the rights of the Sami people through a consultation system that will give them greater and better influence over their own future. The various minorities have different problems that need to be addressed. The Jewish people have a major security problem around their institutions. It's got to be paid attention. The Roma group has a very vulnerable social situation, with extremely high unemployment and many people living in difficult circumstances. And the languages of the very large Finnish population are thinning out, as there have been insufficient educational opportunities in their own language. One thing that the KU has been paying attention for several years is the county boards, which for many governments and for various political reasons have become a kind of comfort facility to which they send assignments. You think, that's what the county boards can do. But it doesn't always come with money. As a result, this disparate trade, the county administrative boards, finds it difficult to carry out its wide-ranging mission. The KU has noted that the county boards, for example, will play a role in strengthening the total defence. It is important for the government to ensure that, when the county boards are given new assignments, resources are included. Another area that I would particularly like to emphasise is the media crisis in Sweden, or really not only in Sweden but in the whole modern world. It is due to digitalisation and to international groups, which absorb advertising revenue. This leads to the rapid disappearance of old business and distribution models. The necessary squares for democracy where opinions are changed and where knowledge is disseminated are then broken down at a rapid rate. It is important that we make sure, through media support, to give the media time to adapt their activities to new forms of distribution and new business models. But the support we give must not preserve the business models that exist today; they are not the future. Deciding what a future media support system should look like is a difficult challenge. It shall both provide an incentive for modernisation and allow time for conversion. I would like to raise an area where a problem has been highlighted in connection with the pandemic. A significant part of our cultural heritage is financed through tourism revenue. This applies, for example, to the Royal Court States but also to a great many of our museums, which are not within our spending area. It is problematic when, as for the Royal Court States, a large part of the possibility of financing the maintenance of Swedish cultural heritage disappears as ticket revenues disappear. One must probably consider whether the existing model of funding needs to be adapted to the fact that cultural heritage is perhaps more eternal than the rate at which tourists arrive. A future model will have to be considered here. Finally, it is interesting that it is always the parties that are in opposition that propose that Parliament's appropriations be strengthened. It has happened that my party has been in that situation. It is also usually always the parties who are in opposition who think that the government has far too much money. What if we all bear in mind that both institutions need to work, whether we are in opposition or in a majority position? I support the KU's proposal.
i-dae4e3061563066c-79	Mr President, I would like to It paints for Christmas. Even though we live in difficult times, the feast of joy is, after all, just around the corner. In these waiting times, many small and large people are waiting for Christmas holidays. There will be no great feast but still a feast. Traditions and rituals differ depending on which family or community you ask. Yet there are traditions and recurring events. This also applies to today's debate on category 1 Kingdom government. Mr President, I would like to The billions we deal with in Category 1 are a prerequisite, a foundation and a bottom sheet, for everything else. The Centre Party supports the budget proposal, and I call for the committee's proposal as a whole to be approved. For the Center Party, the budget bill has two overarching themes. The first is that we must defend Sweden. The second is that we must renew Sweden. In the budget that is now being debated and on which decisions will be taken, we are taking important steps to meet the core tasks of the state. The defence of Sweden is about strengthening the functions that we expect the country to be able to deliver. It is about defence, strengthening the chain of justice and working well-being for all. The defence of Sweden begins here. It starts in Category 1. It begins in the Constitutional Committee of Parliament, in the defence of our fundamental rights and in the defence of our constitutions. During my previous assignment as Municipal Commissioner in Växjö, I worked a lot to strengthen cooperation between municipalities in the Baltic Sea region. When I joined the Board of UBC in 2011, the Union of the Baltic Cities, my focus was on urban development projects, environmental initiatives and social issues. Different types of development projects emerged. The network, which consists of 100 municipalities around the Baltic Sea, cooperated closely and intensively. Over the years, however, a different discussion than on urban development emerged: a broader debate on democracy. Local mayors brought forward ideas and vigilance as to how to maintain open conversation, trust between citizens, free media and elected representatives and how the interaction between the state and the municipalities would take place. In short, during the last decade a debate on democracy emerged as before and in many circles had been taken for granted. Not least Polish representatives testified about how institutions were changed to the detriment of a liberal democracy regime. My Estonian and Lithuanian colleagues, especially far east, told me how important it was for them to have personal contacts and mobile numbers for colleagues in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Germany and Denmark. This is right for reflection even in our country when liberal democracy is under threat and under pressure. Where are we? What are we doing in Sweden? Mr President, I would like to Defending Sweden is about defending the modern as well as the historical Sweden. It is about equipping our constitutions and our institutions, which guarantee the rule of law, the rule of law, democracy, human rights and the protection and promotion of national minorities. These tasks, to strengthen our constitutions and institutions, are timeless. Let me say a few words about the second task, that is to renew Sweden. We are facing major challenges in government policy. It is a policy area that may not have the most fun name in the state budget, but nevertheless it is important. The drain pipes that unfortunately characterize many of the authorities in today's Sweden are based on a thicket of instructions and assignments. This is a matter of concern, for without guttering, the drainpipes become meaningless. Within the expenditure area 1, we are making an increase of 58 million for the management of permits and inspections under the environmental code. This will reduce the length of proceedings. However, I see a general problem with long processing times in the authorities and courts. This has also been noted by the Ombudsman of Justice, most recently yesterday when the report was presented. This is particularly true in the field of planning and construction. Another area of this kind concerns state regional geography, which is not one or two but a stock of state geography. It seems that every authority with self-respect has its own organizational map. This breaker forms an impenetrable pattern of steering devices. The 21 county boards have the ungrateful task of trying to cope with cross-sectoral government governance. In addition, as a substitute for the Constitutional Committee, I have been thinking about the role of transparency councils and boards in the authorities. What exactly are responsibilities, tasks and mandates? When, for example, the County Administrative Board is a kind of subcontractor to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Agriculture Agency, I ask myself the question who is responsible. Is it the governor or is it the director general? All in all it can be said that it needs to be strengthened in order to renew government policy. This is particularly true in the age of digitalisation. What good, smart and democratic solutions are around the corner? Mr President, I would like to In these difficult times, however, we must look to the future. Ingvar Kamprad, the Finnish entrepreneur and founder of Ikea, put it this way: Most things are still undone – wonderful future!
i-dae4e3061563066c-93	Mr President, I would like to One year will soon be added to the documents, and we are preparing for the next by examining the state budget step by step in the various committees. I am afraid that my speech may mean some repetition, but I shall be proudly representing the Parliament's smallest party in this debate. I take the view that the fact that we repeat the same issues and see them as important, albeit with different emphasis, nevertheless represents a valuable consensus. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs' budget debate, I would like to remind you of the foundations of the Constitution, which apply to all aspects of public activity. Every person's personal, economic and cultural well-being should be fundamental objectives for the public. In particular, we will ensure the right to work, housing and education, as well as promoting social care, security and good conditions for health. The public – the government, the parliament and all authorities – will promote sustainable development that leads to a good environment for us, our children and future generations. We will also work to ensure that the ideas of democracy are guided in all areas of society and to protect private and family life for everyone. In the field of the KU, I would particularly like to highlight a few things that we are facing next year. The establishment of a national institute for human rights is planned, and it will now be widely anchored in the parties of the Riksdag. Sweden has received international criticism for not having an independent human rights institute, and after a long process for several years a set-up is now being prepared. I'm glad to hear that. Now we are also preparing decisions on a consultation system on matters concerning the Sami people. The Sami people are protected by the Constitution. It is about promoting the opportunities of the Sami people to maintain and develop their own cultural and community life. The purpose of the consultation system is to promote the influence of the Sami people on matters relating to them. This will be evaluated in a few years' time. Moreover, minority policy is also important, and all levels of society need to contribute to increasing compliance with the rights of all national minorities. Next year, I look forward to the government's consideration of proposals to strengthen coordination and follow-up of minority policy. The committee also has other important responsibilities that underline the values of the Constitution. I am thinking, among other things, of the Parliamentary Ombudsmen, JO, who review events citizens are involved in relations with authorities. The committee received their official report yesterday, and there is no doubt that there is work to be done on the basis of state values. The function of the JO is incredibly important. I am also thinking of the Swedish National Audit Office, which examines the best use of state money, the Swedish Data Protection Authority, which now changes its name to the Swedish Data Protection Authority, the county administrative boards with its important role as a coordinator in the country and the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Agency, which distributes media support, among other things, in order for us to have viable media throughout the country. Mr President, I would like to With this, I support the committee's proposal in the report and look forward to next year.
i-dae4e3061563066c-103	Mr President, honourable Members of this House and listeners. We will now discuss how to allocate money to some of the state's most important activities: the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Kronofogden. Of course, it may be difficult to talk about anything other than the pandemic, the disease and the emergency crisis management, but in all of this we must of course also make every effort and do our utmost to build a country that stays together and performs over time. There are probably many of us who over the past few years have had us a real thinker about how we view and respond to the people who are ultimately working in our ministry. It is not just about the police that are supposed to maintain law and order or about those who work on the migration side and are going to maintain the asylum system and expel those who do not have the right to be here, but it is also about the people who are going to collect debts and ensure that the financial system works. It is about those who are supposed to guard and protect our border, not only so that people do not come here who do not have the right to be here, but also to ensure that goods do not enter our country that should not be in Sweden or, for that matter, that stolen goods are not taken out of our country. The last few years have been a tough one. We are also in a tough test. This is not only due to the economic crisis, Mr President, or to the spread of the corona virus, but also to organised crime. It's about people who have nothing to do but hurt other people. They are abusing our society. Activities such as the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten are central to this. It is not just the police and other directly law enforcement authorities that uphold law and order, civilization and civilised society. It also does a large number of people in the service of the state – in ours. They ensure that Sweden can develop and be safe. From time to time, order and stability are waved away like something tired and boring or dusty. You're supposed to be innovative, modern and entrepreneurial. But not all the innovative, entrepreneurial and enterprising things, Mr President, can exist in a society that is not orderly, orderly and stable. It is enough to look at what it looks like in Sweden today; with disease, economic crisis and organised crime, both desire and opportunities to be forward-looking, entrepreneurial, innovative and create jobs are taken away. It is therefore gratifying, Mr President, that the government, albeit late, has taken on board some of the Moderates' proposals and not only in this report, but generally tightens up the powers and opportunities of the Tax Agency, the Customs Agency and the Enforcement Authority to ensure that the rules of the game we have jointly set up to ensure that our economy and society can also function better. Having said that, I would like to spend the rest of my speaking time talking about the burning issue in this matter, namely the census. Few have missed what major problems and challenges Sweden has with order and order in the population register. About 200 000 people are suspected of being registered at the wrong address. Every year, the Swedish Tax Agency receives 80 000 reports of suspected errors or cheating in the population register. Cheating in civil records means that criminals can stay out of the way and that organised crime or clans can build parallel societies. It comes with a very high social price when society cannot properly meet overcrowding or other social challenges. It is to those who try to provide housing and rental apartments where there are many living at the same address without control. It will be difficult for social services to maintain their mission. Disorder and uncertainty have come to characterize what was once our safe Sweden. Everyone sees this. Everyone wants to do something about it, except the government. We in the Moderates were very surprised when the support for our proposal to carry out a national census suddenly disappeared. Party after party witnessed during the summer that one should tackle the problems. But, Mr President, when the question came to the table of the Parliament, the Social Democrats, the Left Party, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals voted against the national census. We in the Moderates haven't given up. Sweden will again become a country of order, with control and security, so that Sweden can be a good country to live and grow in. Therefore, we set aside half a billion SEK for the Swedish Tax Agency to be able to start a national census together with other relevant authorities as early as next year. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish people have been counted for a very long time. It is part of the successful Swedish state administration, which is unfortunately on a break right now. That is why we do not have a motion because this is a budget report and our framework has fallen, but we have a specific opinion on the matter. We refrain from taking part in the decision in respect of the budgetary order that exists, but we call on the government and all parties in this House to support our proposal for a national census as soon as possible so that order and therefore security can be restored in Sweden.
i-dae4e3061563066c-116	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are going to debate Category 3, i.e. the conditions that we are going to give the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten next year. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, social development in Sweden has been going in the wrong direction for decades in many areas. Recent social changes have brought a number of practical, private economic and material improvements for many, but at the same time, the development has brought about a dramatic increase in crime and a welfare sector with increasingly strained economic conditions. This is to a large extent due to the direction of migration and crime policies, and also in Category 3 the wrong priorities and the lack of ability to assess actual needs, especially in relation to Customs and the Swedish Tax Agency, are visible. Mr President, I would like to Late, the sinner will wake up! The government is now finally investing more money in rebuilding Customs' capacity, which is positive, but it is too little and too late. For several years, criminals have been able to use a weakened customs service to smuggle drugs, weapons and explosives, which are used in their illegal activities and which destroy our country. It becomes clear that the demand for reinforcements of the Customs Agency has finally been heeded, but it seems that the government has not really reached all the way through. For this reason, the Swedish Democrats are proposing additional funds to achieve the objectives that the Swedish Customs Service considers necessary. Mr President, I would like to One problem that the Swedish Democrats, together with the other opposition parties, have highlighted is the limited possibilities for customs to stop outgoing goods and, above all, stolen goods. You have not had the authority to detain stolen goods, but you have been nicely forced to release the goods if the police have not reached the terminal before the ferry has thrown loose. The Finnish Customs itself states that only 2 per cent of the control time is used for checks on outgoing goods, which often rural people in Sweden have paid the price for, among other things, stolen quadricycles, chainsaws, lawn mowers, horse saddles and boat engines. Now, however, the government seems to have finally sent out a proposal for a referral to give customs increased powers to control and stop even outgoing goods. But to do this, more resources are, of course, needed in terms of staff, equipment, premises and terminal areas. The Swedish Democrats are already allocating funds to the Swedish Customs Agency to enable it to prepare the work for the expanded task of checks on outgoing goods. We also provide them with additional funds to invest in equipment to control and hamper illegal flows of goods. With regard to the Swedish Customs' goal of achieving 500 more customs officials by 2023, the Swedish Democrats want to invest 50 million in 2022 and 100 million in 2023. This should be done in order to better address understaffing, have a higher presence at the border in more places, more hours of the day and also maintain a well-functioning trading activity. All of this is in order to make a greater contribution to securing our society. Mr President, I would like to The Tax Agency is a much appreciated public authority, but it is clear that the work is in need of dealing with a very large IT and computer system debt. The government has for a long time chosen not to invest enough in preventive work on risk management within the systems. The fact that the Tax Agency still has outdated systems from the 1990s is not acceptable, not least given that the Authority has difficulty finding the skills needed to maintain operation and safety in such old systems. In order to be able to deal with the business challenges, the Swedish Democrats believe that we need to accelerate the process of renewing the IT systems within the Swedish Tax Agency. Mr President, I would like to It is absolutely fundamental for a society such as the Swedish, with an extensive public sector, that tax is actually paid in. In order to ensure proper collection of taxes, it is fundamental that the census is reliable and accurate and reflects the real population of our country. Unfortunately, there is more and more evidence that this is not the case, and it has become more evident that Sweden's population records no longer work as originally intended. There is an increasing group of individuals who are wrongly registered. Often it can be pure mistakes when reporting an address change or not reporting your move at all. But besides that, there are also persons who deliberately sign up for a false address. Cheating can also be people who are physically present in the country but are not included in our registers. There are also those who are in the registers but with the wrong identity. There are those who are written in Sweden but who are actually living abroad, and there are even people who have managed to manipulate more than one identity. As far as the census error is concerned, as my colleague said here, the Swedish Tax Agency estimates that some 200 000 people are wrongly registered. That figure includes completely absurd cases. We have all at this point heard of Iraq's Minister of Defence and of a high-ranking official in the Afghan Government who were both registered in Sweden and who received compensation from the Swedish welfare system. Not infrequently, the errors in the population register are precisely about obtaining benefits and benefits from the welfare system. This is a growing problem and, in the long term, this development risks undermining the possibility of jointly financing, for example, the police and health services. In addition, there is a risk of cementing an alienation in which people who are illegally present in the country can be exploited as black and underpaid workers and may also be forced to commit crimes to support themselves. This is why the Swedish Democrats saw it as crucial to initiate a new census. A census hasn't been made in 30 years. These 30 years have also been a period of extensive immigration to Sweden. In order to correct the errors in public records, we want to take a holistic approach and also review the possibility of recording biometric data where it can be considered necessary to ensure that no one can have multiple identities. We also want to step up work on internal immigration controls, which have been almost halved since 2017, thus providing the opportunity to identify people who are illegally in Sweden. The Swedish Enforcement Authority is also an important component in combating crime in Sweden. In addition to the Authority's more traditional task of recovering valid claims and counteracting over-indebtedness, it is an important player in the public authority's joint work on law enforcement. Here, too, the Swedish Democrats want to spend more money than the government does. Sweden needs order and order, with the right resources for the Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten. We need to stop the influx of drugs, weapons and bombs into Sweden and keep a proper track of which people actually live in the country. Furthermore, we set out our position in the special opinion, which also shows that we spend more than the government on all the authorities. This means that we do not participate in the decision.
i-dae4e3061563066c-132	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Enforcement Authority are three very central authorities in the Swedish administration. They all have important functions for us to have a well-functioning, orderly economy. In particular, the Swedish Tax Agency ensures that the taxes that are determined by us politicians in parliament, regions and municipalities are collected, but the agency also has important crime prevention and law enforcement functions. Customs controls the flow of goods into and out of Sweden, contributes to a secure society and ensures competitively neutral and efficient trade. The latter is not least important for Sweden, which is a small and trade-dependent country. The Swedish Enforcement Authority works to maintain a good willingness to pay in society. It is important for all forms of enterprise and for maintaining trust between people at a high level. In addition, the Authority's work on debt restructuring for over-indebted people is very important from a social point of view. Mr President, I would like to There has been a debate in society over the problem of foreign theft leagues for several years. They come here to Sweden, commit crimes and then the stolen goods out of the country. Representatives of many different industry organisations have been active in the debate and pointed out that international theft leagues see Sweden as a sandwich table. Every year there have been hundreds of thousands of thefts, and thieves have been able to bring goods out of the country for several billions. In order to counteract this, the Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates, took the initiative for a parliamentary decision to extend the powers of the Customs Agency, so that Customs can become a border protection agency that controls the exit of goods at the border and prosecutes crimes. The government has now sent out a referral with proposals to strengthen customs' powers. Responses must be received by 18 December at the latest. Once the answers have been received, the government must act quickly. This work can't wait. It must be a priority. Mr President, I would like to The enforcement authority has several important tasks, as do the other authorities in this area of expenditure. The workload of the Agency is expected to increase due to the ongoing pandemic. The agency also receives a supplement of SEK 30 million to handle this. It is wise and justified for this addition to be made, and we Christian Democrats welcome it. But there are other areas in the agency's field of activity that are incredibly important but which do not receive the same care from the governing parties. It is about the work against over-indebtedness. The budget for last year cut the appropriations for this work. It was and is very regrettable. On the contrary, the Christian Democrats think that this appropriation needs to be increased, and so do we in our budget. There are many reasons why debt problems arise. The most common thing is that there is a major change in life – separation, illness or unemployment. Often this happens in combination with low incomes and small margins. The resulting problems are great, both for the individual and for society. We know that there is a strong link between financial vulnerability and mental illness. Support and help for these people are of course very important from a purely human perspective, but the socio-economic costs of mental illness must not be underestimated either. The Christian Democrats want the Kronofogden's work against over-indebtedness to be strengthened. We want prevention to be strengthened, processing times to be shortened and families with children to be given priority. The children of parents who are so indebted that they risk not being able to pay their bills are particularly vulnerable. In 2019 467 children were affected by executed evictions from the dwelling. The figure is now increasing for the third year in a row. When the Christian Democrats were in government, priority was given to reducing evictions by families with children. This work produced positive results. For several years, the number of children affected by eviction decreased. However, as it increases again, special efforts are really needed to turn developments in the right direction. We have said no to the withdrawal of this important work by the January parties in the past. Instead, we have wanted to add another $10 million. This means that we have set aside SEK 30 million more for this than the government does in its budget. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats have presented their own draft budget. It fell last week, and the Parliament has decided on the financial perspectives for next year according to the Government's proposal. We are behind the regulatory framework we have for budgetary work. Accordingly, I have abstained from taking part in the decision on this area of expenditure in committee. I therefore do not have a motion today.
i-dae4e3061563066c-145	Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal for a decision. We are debating Category 3. In total, the report proposes EUR 12.4 billion to the three authorities, the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Enforcement Authority. These are important activities in many ways. These are the preconditions for the revenue of the State, for customs and the cessation of illegal entry and for the recovery of debts. When you read the budget bill and party movements, you see that the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Environmental Party, the Liberals and the Left Party again this year make the same assessment regarding the financial perspectives. I feel that there is a broad consensus in this House in this area of expenditure. Mr President, I would like to The Coronapendemy has brought much to those people who have worked hard in the care of the whole of our country. However, the staff of the Swedish Tax Agency has also been affected by our decisions in this House due to the pandemic. There has been a heavy workload for the Swedish Tax Agency's staff working on support measures, applications, control programmes and decisions on the allocation of conversion aid and deferrals, so the Swedish Tax Agency's staff have also had to work hard in this pandemic. The task of the Tax Agency is to ensure the financing of the public sector, i.e. the financing of our well-being and our important investments in society. The aim is to contribute to a well-functioning society and to combat crime. You have many tools for it, but the most famous is the declaration. It is certainly well known by the public and companies. For every year that goes by, the declaration is being digitized more and more. Individuals today can declare on the phone; it is very simple. For entrepreneurs it is much more difficult, but I feel that the Swedish Tax Agency is trying to digitise more and more to help entrepreneurs. One advantage of digitalisation is that it counteracts errors and cheating and makes it easier, more uniform and more legally certain to declare. According to our documents, the Swedish Tax Agency estimates that the tax error for companies has remained unchanged between 2017 and 2019. As several previous speakers have mentioned, the census has been under debate. It is also an important control activity for the state and for the Swedish Tax Agency. The need for a census has been debated. I feel that a lot is being done now. On 1 June, new rules entered into force that provide greater opportunities for the exchange of information within the Swedish Tax Agency. It's a good tool. Today, we are going to decide on 43 million in increased funds to strengthen and streamline the civil record-keeping activities. The Swedish Tax Agency will now have methodological development in three municipalities to see if you can reduce the population register error. Also affecting the work of the Tax Agency is the old tax system. The January agreement states that we should review the tax system, but this review has, of course, been delayed by the pandemic. A modernised tax system will simplify for the Swedish Tax Agency in the future. Mr President, I would like to Much is being done to prosecute tax evasion. We have decided in this House on numerous measures to reduce tax evasion. It is of great importance for the state's income, but also for the neutrality of competition between companies, and it provides equal conditions for employees in companies. We Social Democrats welcome the OECD and EU initiatives to combat tax evasion in question on demand. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is an open country and should be so. But it takes order at our borders. The EU stands for the control of our external borders, but we also need to have controls between EU countries to combat the illegal trade in alcohol, drugs and weapons that fertilise organised crime. It is stated in our documents that the financial framework for customs is being extended and will continue to be extended. But our efforts must be seen as a whole. Even the police have been given more resources. The entire law enforcement chain has received more resources. We look at the whole flow and put in measures to try to stop illegal entry. Like some of the previous speakers, we eagerly look forward to the Government's proposal on how to stop theft leagues at the border so that their prey cannot leave Sweden. We must also improve cooperation within the European Union. I feel that the committee is really following the EU's action plan to bring the Customs Union to the next level. Mr President, I would like to The bailiff has an important mission: you help those who have not been paid and give support to those who will pay. It is important that payments are made in a legally secure manner, and we can see in the agency's business plan that we are now doing as the Swedish Tax Agency and trying to develop IT support. The enforcement authority also cooperates with the other authorities to combat welfare and other financial crime. To conclude, Mr President, we can see that, as a result of the pandemic, Kronofogde will have more to do in the future. In the draft budget, there is more money to strengthen rapid and correct management in 2021.
i-dae4e3061563066c-163	Mr President, I would like to Our budgetary framework has fallen, and the extra half billion proposed by the Moderates would go to the Tax Agency to carry out a census is thus gone. The possibility is missing. There is little we can do about it here and now, but Jörgen Hellman, the Social Democrats and the government have every opportunity to reconsider for the future. Few or no one has missed that Sweden has serious problems with order and order in the population records. Some 200 000 people are considered to be registered at the wrong address, many with no bad intent but a lot of bad intentions – everything from usurping contributions you are not entitled to committing outright fraud against welfare systems, avoiding tax payments, staying away from law enforcement authorities and engaging in criminal activities. But there are also many who live in desperation in a housing market that does not work, under pressure from poor social conditions and overcrowding, that society is incapable of doing anything about because order and control are lacking. I therefore wonder, Jörgen Hellman, why you have voted against the Moderates' proposal to add half a billion to the Tax Agency so that we can carry out a census. I wonder why you have voted against the Moderates' proposal to carry out a census. I wonder why, with so much money as there is in the state budget, there is not half a billion to set things straight.
i-dae4e3061563066c-166	Mr President, I would like to I believe that everyone in this House shares the concern that these registers do not correspond 100% to the truth. Over time, the error in population accounts appears to be 2%. It sounds a little bit, but we all think it's serious. This affects the activities of municipalities when it comes to planning schooling. Niklas Wykman also describes the use of the system by criminal networks. We see it as a major problem. The government has done a few things. One is the pilot project that we are now deciding on a framework of 43 million more. Why a pilot project? Well, I don't think it's possible to do a population and housing census that earlier by sending out letters and believing that the majority of the population responds. Of course, most will respond, but many will not respond. How do you reach them? In the end, it is the police who will help and knock on when people do not open the door, and that resource costs not half a billion, but much more. The Swedish Tax Agency must be given the opportunity to develop methods to see how it can change so that people's records work better and become more precise. Three municipalities will develop methods and see if the pilot project works. This is a good start. We will see what that means and if there is an improvement in the registers so that the errors disappear. People and housing bills are a very large device – not for most residents but for those who stay away.
i-dae4e3061563066c-172	Mr President and you who are listening! It is clear that Jörgen Hellman was prepared for my question. This is in many ways pleasing, because it shows that, although the government and the Social Democrats have not been able to prioritise resources for next year in order to carry out a census that is so much needed to counter organised crime, exclusion, crime and human suffering, there is at least an understanding that this issue is important for the future. I therefore strongly urge Jörgen Hellman, the Social Democrats and the Government to take on board the Moderates' proposals and to get money for a census as soon as possible. It cannot, as Jörgen Hellman says, have to go several years to make it possible to carry out a census. I therefore call on Jörgen Hellman to return to Parliament with an additional amending budget so that we can get this right as early as next year.
i-dae4e3061563066c-174	Mr President, I would like to We will now see the results of the pilot projects in the three voluntary municipalities. I believe, however, that, in addition to money, something else is required, namely even greater cooperation between the authorities. The government has initiated this – to stimulate increased cooperation between authorities. It is clear that if a municipality sees that it is wrong in the population register, it must in future report this to the Swedish Tax Agency. Such things will reduce the errors in registration. We will certainly be following this issue in the Committee on Taxation. We will see if next year, when we debate this report, more steps have been taken to get these registers in order.
i-dae4e3061563066c-176	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten are authorities that are not always in the media spotlight. Their work and the challenges they face are not always so visible, but this has changed quite substantially this year, not least because of the pandemic and its effects. I would like to take this opportunity to say a great deal of thanks to the employees of our agencies, who have had a completely changed working situation and have worked hard to alleviate the negative effects of the pandemic. The Customs Agency has an extremely central role to play, especially now in Brexit times. As the negotiations appear to be going right now, there is a risk that companies in Sweden are not sufficiently prepared for what is ahead. I also see, and we know, that the Customs Agency has been given increased powers in order to be the important party they need to be in the fight against crime in stopping goods, such as drugs, weapons and explosives, at our borders. However, one important issue remains, as has been mentioned here in the speaker's chair, namely the possibility for customs to stop and detain suspected stolen goods so that it does not disappear out of the country. This is an issue that the Center Party, together with other parties, has been pushing for a long time in this House and which is crucial to confidence in the judiciary, not least in rural areas. At last we have heard about this in discussions with the government in the JA cooperation. We look forward to changes in the rules actually coming into force next year, on 1 July. The Swedish Tax Agency has, of course, a central role to play in dealing with the economic effects of the pandemic. In many respects, the Swedish Tax Agency has been fast-footed. Among other things, a safety valve was opened in order not to represent responsibility would hit as hard as before. The work of all authorities to combat crime needs to be strengthened. We know that our authorities have received many assignments from the government in terms of cooperating on this, not least with regard to population records. We should know that, after all, we have quite good national registers in Sweden, which has meant that the latest censuses have sufficient records. We know that the Swedish Tax Agency does not fully have the powers and the means to impose the sanctions necessary to, for example, knock on doors. We have to follow this huge snout, not least in the years to come. There will be reports next year on how this cooperation against crime takes place. Another thing we have to follow is the work against the so-called care moms. We know that an investigator is working on this and will come back next year. The Centre Party is in majority in 19 out of 21 regions, so this is an issue that we are watching closely. The Swedish Enforcement Authority has seen a sharp increase in the number of contacts and has developed the information on its website in a commendable way. For a person who is a customer of Kronofogden and works according to an agreed payment plan but has had problems with the payments due to Corona or because you have lost the job, the authority can reduce the payment liability retroactively. This is something that I hope we can take with us even after the pandemic. The bailiff has also had the good taste of starting to pay bills from suppliers in the past due to the pandemic. This is something that more authorities could follow. I venture to mention authorities outside the scope of this committee; I just have to say the Agriculture Agency, so people understand what I mean when it comes to the payment of agricultural subsidies. Mr President, I would like to I note that our three authorities are working proactively and urgently. Many experiences that stem from this pandemic can lead to positive effects afterwards. I would also like to take this opportunity to underline the important work of the Kronofogden in countering the indebtedness of our young people, who have also been mentioned in the pulpit. This is a work that must be given high priority and which we worked to include in the regulatory letter. Mr President, I would like to The prerequisite for our welfare is that there are companies that can, dare and want to hire. Only then can the tax revenues that we need for our common welfare be generated. The Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Enforcement Authority are central parts not only for the Swedish legal society but also to ensure that the state's collection is correct. Then predictability and clear rules are crucial. To ensure that the taxes decided are paid in a legally secure and effective way is the basis for financing our public activities. It is also a question of equal treatment and the safeguarding of trust in the public sector. Mr President, I would like to An important role for the Tax Agency is also to ensure that the legal situation in the tax area is clarified as an implementing authority. This should be done from a legal science perspective, with balanced interpretations, and not just from a fiscal perspective. I expect to see in the future less interpretations that mean, for example, that quadricycles are taxed in favour of excessive amounts or that taxes on energy will suddenly start to be paid in an ongoing year. This is not a good thing for small businesses, which are also often found in rural areas. Mr President, I would like to The presence of the state throughout the country is central to society at large. Authorities have an important role to play in ensuring that decentralised localisation is applied. The authorities are for all citizens and businesses. It is also important to contribute through presence to development and growth around the country. Technology development makes it easier for authorities to carry out decentralised activities and to be present throughout the country. The presence of public authorities also contributes to improving the labour market. When private businesses are to recruit people, preferably key people, it is important that there is a mix of private employers and government employers in place. We need to counteract the fact that the authorities themselves want to decide on closure, as we still see from time to time. The state's presence should be seen as a whole and a strategic decision. Decisions on location need to be made by the government or parliament in order for them to be for the whole country. Mr President, I would like to I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-dae4e3061563066c-194	Mr President, I would like to Today we are dealing with Category 3, which is about ensuring good funding for the public sector, having functioning social functions for citizens and businesses and ensuring that authorities have the right tools in the fight against organised crime. However, I would like to talk about the question of population censuses and why it is urgent to get a new census. The simple answer is that it was 30 years since the last census was carried out. For us Liberals, it is important that the state honours its commitments to individuals on the basis of their rights. For these rights to be secured, we need to have functioning social functions, as well as for the state to be able to take care of its part of the social contract. But when we do not know who is staying in Sweden and where they live or if people with expulsion decisions have left the country, neither the police, the security services, the Social Security Agency or the social services can fulfil their obligations. Therefore, a new census is needed that increases the ability to follow up compliance with Swedish law, reduces subsidy fraud and ensures that people who are in a socially vulnerable situation receive the help they are entitled to. That is precisely why we Liberals in negotiations with the government and the Centre Party have pushed through and ensured that a new census will be made. We are therefore also allocating 43 million for next year and another 20 million for 2022 for this purpose. Mr President, I would like to We have major alienation problems today. In 2004, the People's Party produced the Exteriority Map. Already then we alerted the vulnerability of many residential areas, which should have called for immediate action. Instead, all the parties that were then in Parliament chose to put the lid on, and the consequence is that we have gone from an ominous development to a profound crisis. This may sound to some like harsh criticism, but the truth is that insecurity today exists in many parts of our country. Not all inhabitants of Sweden are given the security that the rule of law is supposed to guarantee to all their inhabitants. Over half a million people live in areas where the rule of law has been suppressed, there is a great deal of overcrowding, school results are failing, unemployment is widespread and crime affects an enormous number of people. The Swedish gender equality, which we are so proud of and gladly export to other parts of the world, is set on exceptions in our exclusion areas. It does not reach the women and girls who live in the iron grip of honour oppression but at most need equality in order to live free lives. Instead, they are controlled by gang criminals and religious fundamentalists who violate their fundamental human and free rights, which we all tend to take for granted. Mr President, I would like to I do not want to contribute to a black and white debate in this House, because the majority of people living in vulnerable areas are happy and proud of their areas. The vast majority of children, young people and adults dream of their future and are committed to their fellow humans just like others. But they experience the insecurity that has crept into their residential areas. Security should be a matter of course in Sweden by 2020. We Liberals will not accept that this development should continue. We are convinced that it is possible to take back control, but if we are to reverse developments, we need a new approach and many measures. And a new census on a slightly smaller scale is a step in the right direction. But, of course, we also need to work to prevent crime. We need to involve the police, social services, civil society, local companies, property owners and many other actors in these areas. In addition, we need a sustainable and long-term migration policy that is predictable, fair and does not allow for public amnesties or that people without asylum reasons should be able to reside in Sweden if we are to get in place a serious and good integration policy that turns development around. Mr President, I would like to I have listened carefully to Niklas Wykman of the Moderates and I think he has a little too harsh criticism of the proposal that is now on the table of the House. However, I am not going to criticise him, because I think he points out an important point with the need for a national census. It is true that we do not really know which people live in Sweden today. The Swedish Tax Agency's own estimates that 200 000 people are written at wrong addresses speak clearly about the needs that exist. However, the Moderates' proposals run the risk of missing the urgent need for measures that need to get started now and which both Niklas and I have addressed in the debate. Then it is most logical to start in the areas where vulnerability is greatest and the overcrowding is at its worst. Mr President, I would like to In this way, we are making up with the shadow society that horribly affects many people today. It is in this way that we reverse developments and make these areas safe again. It is in this way that we get to the overcrowding that has had devastating consequences for human lives during the pandemic. And this is how we safeguard our welfare systems against cheating. We will closely follow up on the work that is about to begin, and of course we will also follow it up with further important measures to reverse developments. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-dae4e3061563066c-206	Mr President, I would like to It is important that the public has a high level of confidence in our authorities and in how we fund our joint commitments. The state's ability to meet its commitments and the fact that taxation is carried out in an effective and legally secure manner is a prerequisite for this. Tax evasion and evasion damage confidence in our tax system and undermine our common welfare. It is therefore very good that the government is increasing the Swedish Tax Agency's funding to strengthen the work against tax evasion and tax crimes. The whole government budget is based on people paying taxes in different ways. The fact that taxes are collected in an effective and legally secure way enables us in this House to decide on the direction of the country and make life better for our fellow human beings and care for the nature on which we depend. But we need to make sure we focus right. Here we are talking about tax evasion. Yes, there are cases of subsidy fraud, but it is a disappearing small sum when compared to the tax evaders who move their huge capital around to avoid contributing to those who need it. According to the Swedish Tax Agency's latest assessment, it is about SEK 130 billion per year that would otherwise have been taxed in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Customs and the Swedish Tax Agency play an important role in the fight against organised crime. Good law enforcement bureaucrats are absolutely crucial to nailing the criminal gangs. If we can access the financial flows and the money that attracts people into crime and enables criminal activity, it will make a big difference. It is therefore of the utmost importance that cooperation between our various authorities continues to develop. Mr President, I would like to To stop crime and entry at Sweden's borders is so economically very effective. These authorities play an important role in the smuggling of drugs, weapons and dangerous goods, but also an important role in maintaining C ites in the fight against the trafficking of endangered animals. My committee colleagues have heard me nag about this before. It is therefore the fourth largest illegal trade, globally. My commitment actually started when I myself worked in Cambodia and could see different nature reserves and national parks emptied of both trees and animals. I myself have seen seized snares and illegal traps that have drained the jungles of life and biodiversity. According to CITES, these goods may not enter Europe. There is a strong and thorough check. However, if goods belonging to endangered animals – they are different body parts, skins, bones and ivory – well into the EU, there is no more careful control, with regard to the internal market. That is why we do not know today how much of these illegal goods flow into Sweden. We don't have accurate statistics on that. We cannot judge how big and how serious the problem is. I believe that we must give customs the task of combating the illegal trade in endangered animals. During the coronapandemine, many have obtained dogs and other pets. Unfortunately, the smuggling of dogs has taken place far too far. These are dogs that are sold in a terrible way and smuggled in. Most dogs are in such bad shape that they must be put to death. We need to strengthen the work against this, and customs must be given the power to do so. The third authority under the Tax Committee is the Enforcement Authority. The Swedish Customs Agency will receive more money in connection with a forthcoming investment in civil defence, and the Swedish Enforcement Authority plays an important role in making it more difficult for ruthless people to make money from criminal activities. When these authorities work well, it will be easier for us politicians to make the changes that we want to see and to strengthen trust in society. I support the committee's proposal.
i-dae4e3061563066c-217	Mr President, I would like to This year will be remembered as the year of trials. The Coronapandemia has hit the whole world hard, and Sweden is no exception in this respect. On the contrary, the failed Promise-Tegnell strategy has cost thousands of people their lives. We are in a very serious situation. Healthcare professionals struggle day and night to save lives. Police officers, teachers, bus drivers and others who cannot work remotely do their best to make society function as normal as possible. In addition, the Corona virus has hit the economy very hard. Companies have been shut down. The existence of entire industries is rocking, and many people have lost their jobs. Entrepreneurs have seen their life's work go down. Others are still struggling for their survival, hoping for a quick light. We all do. We all hope that things will return to normal. It is now necessary not to get caught up in despair over the situation we see around us but to look forward and start preparing for life after the Corona. It is a time when Sweden will be restarted and again become a country where people can hang out without restrictions, go to restaurants, theatre and football and, of course, start travelling again. It is a time when the companies are once again at high speed and the order books are filled. Our job as politicians is to create the best possible conditions for this new start and to remove the obstacles that stand in the way. We Moderates are in favour of the government's involvement in a, albeit extremely limited, adjustment of the tax on petrol and diesel. However, we believe that the reduction proposed by the government is far from sufficient. The tax on petrol and diesel is far too high today. This is because of the government's wrong and very negative attitude toward the car. Now, in these coronatides, it has become clearer than otherwise how dependent we are on the car. The car is the most suitable mode of transport to minimise the spread of infection. Therefore, we are now very grateful for everyone who takes the car to work and thus does not contribute to congestion in public transport. The car has also in many cases become the only available means of travel, when other transports have been cancelled. The ability to keep society going even at a very limited level would have been considerably more difficult without the car – not to say that it would have been completely impossible. But it is far from anyone who can afford to own a car or even drive one. Driving a car really must not be regarded as a luxury for which it should be granted. Being able to transport by car is a necessity for many. It is our damned duty to make it possible for people to afford to do so, so that they can make everyday life go together and their lives work in a reasonable way and not least so that the whole of Sweden can live. We Moderates believe that the overindexation should be abolished and that the tax on petrol and diesel should be reduced by SEK 1 at the pump. Over-indexing, together with the annual requirements for increased biofuel blends, leads to significantly increased fuel prices. In addition, the increased interference risks increasing fuel consumption, as the biofuel has significantly lower energy content. For those who depend on the car, the effect is therefore not only a higher pump price but also an increased cost as it is spent on more fuel. It is not only private individuals who need the car to make everyday life work that suffers from the high fuel taxes. Swedish companies operating in an international market also suffer from the high fuel costs. The competitiveness of companies is decreasing and important jobs are lost when taxes are pushed up too high. Companies operating on the domestic market are also adversely affected by the government's anti-mobility policy, including through higher vehicle taxes. It is therefore unfortunate that the tax on petrol and diesel has been increased so much in recent years. Emissions from coal and fossil fuels need to be reduced, but measures to combat emissions cannot, for the most part, be based on what places cities on land. Climate policy should be effective and results-oriented while taking into account the reality, not least the different living conditions in different parts of the country. Otherwise, it will lack legitimacy. Unfortunately, the government's climate policy is too much characterized by the Green Party's preference for pure symbolic measures without any practical significance. Without a tangible impact on the environment, it makes it more difficult for both individuals and businesses. In some cases it even has a harmful effect on the environment. Of climate policy instruments, such as fuel tax, a disproportionate burden has been placed in recent years on individuals who depend on the car. If it is to be possible to live and operate throughout the country and if we want good conditions for jobs and growth throughout Sweden, the tax on petrol and diesel needs to be reduced. We Moderates have therefore proposed such a reduction of 1 crown per litre. Mr President, I would like to I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-dae4e3061563066c-233	Mr President, I would like to In the bill, the government has proposed to pause the bnp indexation of fuel. It is promising that the government is now showing some insight – provided that this realization is that fuel taxes are too high. We do not question that fuel should be taxed and that road traffic should contribute revenue to the public purse, not least because the infrastructure needs to be financed. However, the Swedish democrats' line is that all modes of transport, including cars and flights, are important for society to function. Now, the over-indexation of fuel taxation has long begun to reach levels that make it clear to people living and operating in places that lead to significant transport distances. One-sidedly taxing certain types of traffic affects people in all walks of life unnecessarily, not least in rural areas. A policy of reducing the price of petrol and diesel mainly benefits a large proportion of Swedes outside the city centres, who depend on the car in their daily lives. Bus and trains are also important means of transport and should not in any way be given priority, but the Swedish Democrats advocate a transport-friendly policy for both urban and rural areas. Nor can we see that the over-indexation of fuel taxation has significantly contributed to the environmental policy objectives of reducing CO2 emissions because those who actually need to drive their cars in their daily lives have to do so anyway. In addition, Sweden's traffic emissions in a global comparison are almost negligible. This means that, in practice, over-indexation does not lead to meeting the expected objectives, but rather simply over-taxation of ordinary people in rural and rural areas who work and run businesses. It is households and small businesses that are also completely dependent on their vehicles to make their everyday lives go together. Certainly, many transports can eventually be switched to, for example, electric and hydrogen power. However, this transition should be carried out in harmony with what is technically, economically and also environmentally reasonable. Excessively rapid demand for batteries, for example, does not directly lead to positive environmental impacts in areas where raw materials are broken. Above all, Swedish rural areas should not be sacrificed in favour of unrealistic CO2 targets, which even if achieved would not produce a measurable global effect. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats do not support the so-called 2030 target, which is unrealistic and risks stimulating measures that are not optimal from an environmental or economic point of view. In addition, it is particularly important that fuel taxes for farmers and forestry workers should be reduced to EU minimum levels. We compare Swedish conditions with Danish and see that agricultural and forestry workers in Sweden need to get competitive conditions so that Swedish farmers are not outcompeted by farmers in neighbouring countries. Swedish fuel taxes are already very high, which is due, among other things, to over-indexation. We need to ensure that fuel taxes have a reasonable level. A good first step is to stop the over-indexation of fuel taxes permanently in order to start a gradual change in tax policy in this area. Living in rural and rural areas, agriculture and forestry, small businesses and transport for our industry in general are clearly losers in government policy. The economic policy of the Swedish democrats brings forward the need to abolish the bnp indexation of fuels permanently and not only temporarily. That is why I am in favour of reservation 2 in the report.
i-dae4e3061563066c-242	Mr President, I would like to We are all dependent on a stable climate for our survival. The climate is threatened, but it is possible to reverse developments if we reduce our emissions. The goal of the Social Democrats is clear: Sweden should be a global climate leader and become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. We are going to hand over a better society to future generations, a society where the major environmental problems are being resolved and where, not least, global warming has been halted. Completing the 1.5-degree target of 2040 is a necessary but not a sufficient prerequisite for the long-term survival of our world. It is really zero degrees that need to be achieved if Stockholm is not to be drowned and Sweden's forests burn up. Since 1994, the CO2 and energy tax rates on petrol and diesel, for example, have been converted annually with changes in the consumer price index, kpi. Simply put, this means that the tax follows the price trend. Since 2016, there has also been a bnp indexation for petrol and diesel. This is done by a flat-rate annual supplement of 2 percentage points to the kpi conversion. Both the energy tax and the CO2 tax are actually recalculated but expressed as an increase in the energy tax. The introduction of Bnp indexation is basically about a high level of ambition in climate work and about reducing greenhouse gas emissions. At times when this has not been implemented, it has been that the Riksdag has instead decided on actual changes in the amount of tax on fuel. On 1 July 2018, a reduction obligation was introduced to mix biofuels into petrol and diesel. The aim of the reduction obligation is to create long-term rules for sustainable biofuels in order to contribute to the Government's objectives within the climate policy framework and eventually reach a fossil-free vehicle fleet. A reduction obligation means reducing greenhouse gas emissions from petrol and diesel by an obligation to mix biofuels and thereby reduce greenhouse gas emissions from road transport in a cost-effective manner. With increased requirements in the reduction obligation, it is important to also review how we can increase the production of biofuels in Sweden. The Government has therefore commissioned the Swedish Energy Agency to investigate the need and design of additional instruments to promote facilities for the production of biofuels using new technologies where the cost is too high for the fuel to be competitive today. Mr President, I would like to The government's proposal that we are debating here today means that the Bnp indexation of the tax on petrol and diesel will be paused in 2021 and that the energy tax will only be recalculated with regard to changes in the kpi. The government has announced in the budget that the reduction levels within the reduction obligation will be increased. Biofuels are currently more expensive than petrol and diesel due to higher production costs. Therefore, in order to meet increased fuel prices due to increased biofuel incorporation, the Bnp indexation is paused. As uncertainty about the future costs of biofuels is high, the government does not believe that there is any reason to permanently abolish the Bnp indexation, as is advocated by, among others, the Swedish Democrats. It is also not favourable from a climate point of view to go as far as reducing taxes on petrol and diesel, as the Moderates are calling for. Having said that, I am in favour of the government proposal.
i-dae4e3061563066c-251	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for approval of the proposal and rejection of the reservations. The general indexation of taxes on fuels is a good thing. It follows the development of costs in society. This means that the effect of the tax will not be eroded with wage increases and other things. The fact that we have had a carbon tax at all in Sweden has served us well and helped us to radically reduce our emissions. The previous government, on the other hand, chose to introduce over-indexation, to increase the tax more than indexes. We in the Center Party have opposed this, and we are now putting an end to this both this year and next year. That's good. At the same time, we strongly strengthen environmental governance when it comes to fuels. It is a question of extending the so-called reduction obligation, i.e. that it should be mandatory for fuel companies to include renewable fuels in ordinary petrol and diesel. No matter what you think, it becomes a little more environmentally smart. We have also ensured from the Center Party that the Swedish Energy Agency is now tasked with looking at instruments to increase renewable fuel production in Sweden. This is good for many reasons, not least security policy, so that we will be less dependent on Russian oil. This also means that we get more jobs and entrepreneurship throughout the country, because the raw material for this is not found in the big cities, but around the Swedish countryside. Our environmental and climate policy is therefore to ensure that we get more renewable. But at the same time we also strengthen Swedish countryside. That is real rural policy. One thing that does not strengthen Swedish rural areas, however, is the Swedish Democrats' and Moderates' budget. True, the Moderates reduce the tax on petrol by 1 crown, with the motive that this will help the countryside. But it's actually fraud. If you look at the budget, at the same time they choose to abolish the targeted tax reduction to the most sparsely populated counties, which means that there is actually a tax increase. Even if the whole money in petrol tax cuts is credited, there is still a tax increase of a number of hundred, perhaps a thousand, because the targeted tax reduction that already exists is removed. The same is true of the Swedish Democrats, and the same is true of the Christian Democrats. Thus, despite a reduction in petrol taxes, rural areas receive an increase in income tax. It's not okay. The proposal is simply a poorly hidden urban policy, because half of all the miles driven in Sweden are driven in the metropolitan areas. They do not get an increased tax on the budgets of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats. The metropolitan areas thus receive the tax cuts, but not the rural areas. In fact, the car is much smaller in sparsely populated areas than in Stockholm or Uppsala County, for example. Pretending like something else is false. The Swedish democrats also choose to radically increase the tax on biofuels, which means that we can actually change today's engines and what works in the cars that are rolling out of Volvo today. If you do so, it will not only have enormous consequences for the environment but also for the price of fuel, which, of course, is forgotten to say. To kill another myth, driving today is not more expensive than it was ten years ago. The picture that Boriana Åberg paints of large cost increases and how much more expensive it has become to drive is simply not correct. When we together ruled Sweden in the alliance government under Fredrik Reinfeldt – it was a very good time – it was not cheaper to drive a car than it is today. It has not been more expensive either with a new car or with a used car. Driving a car costs about 10 crowns (U.S.). The fact that the cost has not increased, despite the fact that fuel prices have increased mainly depending on the world market, is due to the fact that the engines have become more efficient. Of course the counter ticks up higher when you go to the pump and tanks, but you go there less often. It simply does not cost any more. This picture of reality must be included in the discussion of these issues. Madam President, I would like Finally, we in the Center Party are satisfied with the present bill. It is well balanced between the environment and the economy. It does not increase costs unnecessarily but does not reduce Sweden's climate ambitions as other parties' draft budgets do.
i-dae4e3061563066c-262	Madam President, I would like It was interesting to hear Mr Nordin praise the duty reduction and his criticism of the general reduction in the tax on petrol and diesel. As the representative of a Party of Freedom, I believe that the power over travel should lie with the individual. That is why we choose to have this freedom for everyone, both for those living in the countryside and for those living in the cities. It should be up to the individual to choose. Then I have a few questions about this postal code tax reduction. How does the honourable Member define rural areas? Is Skellefteå rural? Is Östersund countryside? Östersund has 60 000 inhabitants, universities and services in every way. They get the Center Party's tax reduction but not Laxå, Hofors, Grums and other smaller communities where people have several miles to the nearest store and several miles to the nearest gas station. How can a party that claims to be liberal choose to restrict people's freedom and make such blunders in terms of tax cuts? Tax cuts are positive, and they should benefit everyone and not just some according to strangely calculated principles. What are you thinking here?
i-dae4e3061563066c-264	Madam President, I would like I thank Boriana Åberg for this. I am liberal, and I think it is good to reduce the tax burden. It would have been desirable if the Moderates had also reduced the tax more on companies, for example, which they do not. They actually raise it compared to the current budget. If the Moderates now want everyone to take part in tax cuts, why don't people in Hofors or Laxå, for example, who travel collectively part of the Moderate tax cuts? The Moderates are targeting people who drive cars. It's not more expensive to drive today than it was when we ran together. The cost of fuel is exactly the same. Then I find it strange to choose to focus on things that actually also emit emissions. I thought we agreed on a green tax shift, where we increase the tax on emissions and reduce it on jobs and entrepreneurship. But here the Moderates do exactly the opposite. They also choose to scrap the entire bonus – the Malus system with the argument that it is not effective. And efficiency is measured in relation to the petrol tax, the same petrol tax that they choose to reduce. Here, the arguments of the Moderates simply do not go together. They cannot cope with the environmental objectives that we have set together and which the Moderates have also signed up to. The reasonable thing in Boriana Åberg's argument that not all Sweden can take part in the same tax reduction as assisted areas A and B can do – the regular parts that we have according to the EU – would have been to make sure that Laxå and Hofors had received these SEK 1,500 in tax reduction instead of focusing it on people who drive a car in Stockholm, Uppsala and Gothenburg, because it is they who primarily get part of the tax reduction in petrol tax.
i-dae4e3061563066c-268	Madam President, I would like I hope that Mr Nordin can show a little more insight into so-called green tax exchanges – those taxes that are unnecessary and harmful to entrepreneurship. These include the tax on plastic bags, the chemical tax, the chemical tax on clothing and shoes, the tax on cups of coffee lattes and the tax on food boxes. They are harmful to entrepreneurship and do not contribute in the least to improving the environment. I would also like to mention that the postal code tax with which the honourable Member is so pleased is about SEK 100. This is not an extreme amount of money, so I wonder what that tax reduction is going to make up for. Should it compensate for the high petrol and diesel taxes? Whatever the honourable Member says, driving today is too expensive. Or are the 100 crowns to compensate for the new system of travel deductions, which punishes all who have less than 20 miles [30 km] to work by one road?
i-dae4e3061563066c-270	Madam President, I would like I note that the reduction in taxes in rural areas – what Boriana Åberg refers to as a postal code tax, is therefore a tax reduction. It is about 50% greater than the tax cut on petrol and diesel that goes to the countryside in the Moderates' own proposal. So we're lowering the tax more. If Boriana Åberg thinks the reduction is too small, the Moderates' own tax reduction is far too small in this context. If the Moderates are sceptical about certain green taxes, I look forward very much to the Moderates putting forward their own proposals, other proposals and sharper proposals on how to achieve the environmental impact they are calling for. It's completely missing from the Moderates' budget. It is happily forgotten that, for example, the tax on plastic bags is about directives from the European Union, and there are no proposals of our own on how to reduce that use. In fact, plastic bags are on top of ten when it comes to littering in nature. This is not just about the fact that things are blowing in from other countries via the sea, but it is about that we have to do things here and now in Sweden. From those who do not think the measures we are implementing are good, I am happy to look forward to other proposals, better proposals and sharper proposals – but there are none in the Moderates' budget. It is a complete lack of environmental proposals, while we are actually going the other way. If you think that emissions should be reduced more, as I hope the Moderates think, it is also reasonable for you to make your own proposals. At the moment, we are only opposed to the proposals put forward by the Center Party together with the government, and that is not good enough. It is not good enough to say that you should do things later, later and elsewhere, which will pass through the entire draft budget of the Moderates. It's actually tragic.
i-dae4e3061563066c-273	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating fuel taxation. Today's system is in practice a variant of mileage taxation, where those who drive many miles pay more tax than those who drive few miles. In addition, we also pay taxes on the vehicle itself and via congestion charges. Unfortunately, today's taxation means that those living in rural areas are forced to pay more taxes than those living in urban areas and in a larger city, as those living in urban areas are more able to choose other transport options, such as bicycle, bus, tram or metro. Those who live outside our cities need the car to get to and from work and to drive children and young people to training and other leisure activities. We also see that further urbanisation, combined with an increasing number of electric cars, reinforces the trend in rural areas to bear an increasing share of infrastructure costs. Electrification combined with, for example, bonuses – malus and today's fuel taxation leads to lower taxation for those who can afford to buy an electric car while other vehicle owners receive increasingly higher taxation. The cost of owning a car has been given greater emphasis, when we should rather work to combat emissions. We also see that electrification in Norway, for example, has resulted in a discussion of future taxation. If we sum up today's taxation, we can see that it is unfair and that it will become increasingly difficult to deal with, after which more and more people will settle in cities and buy electric cars. Madam President, I would like More and more people have begun to promote mileage tax as an alternative to today's unjust taxation. An article presented by seven researchers at the DN Debate on 27 January 2020 highlights the need for a new fuel tax, and presents a proposal for a new, differentiated kilometre tax that increases taxes in our cities and urban areas while abolishing taxation in rural areas. In an article in Expressen on 28 January 2020, representatives of both the petrol uprising 2.0 and the environmental movement say that they are in favour of a new, differentiated kilometre tax. Madam President, I would like From the point of view of the Christian Democrats, it is important to get away from today's unfair taxation, which we believe affects the rural population in an unreasonable way. We are in favour of today's decision to freeze the indexation, but in the long term we believe that there is a need for a completely new vehicle and fuel taxation. We believe that a new tax should be based on a kilometre tax and that, at the same time, it should be reviewed how individual vehicles should be taxed on the basis of engine type, weight, size and more. New taxation should also take into account where and when the transport system is used. The system should first be introduced in the truck industry, which would allow us to test a new model at the same time as we can also get better control of the foreign hauliers operating in Sweden. If we combine a new fuel and vehicle taxation with more digital signs, AI and future autonomous cars, we can also control traffic in our larger cities in such a way that, for example, goods transport can take place at different times than when most people get to and from work. Regardless of the government, we will not be able to build a transport system based solely on the transport needs of the high frequency of traffic, but we will have to work on new solutions that allow us to invest in such a way that we create a traffic solution that works for a larger part of the day. New technologies combined with a new digital vehicle and fuel taxation give us new opportunities to manage the passenger and freight transport of the future. Madam President, I would like Today's unfair vehicle and fuel taxation affects all those who depend on the car to cope with their everyday lives. It is therefore a good thing that today we are paused the indexation of fuel taxation, but it would have been even better if the government had taken the initiative for a new and fair vehicle and fuel taxation. The Christian Democrats have no reservation of their own, but we have our own special opinion that points to the need for new vehicle and fuel taxation.
i-dae4e3061563066c-283	Madam President, I would like First of all, I support the Government's proposal. I was going to give a rather boring speech; I was going to talk about economics. There are many politicians in this House who often refer to economists and claim to listen to them, but that is not usually the case. I was going to talk about Jevon's paradox or the recoil effect, as it is also called – dear child has many names. It means, briefly, that efficiency increases often lead to increased consumption. Why is that? Well, when you streamline something, you need to spend less money on the same amount of energy or whatever it may be that you spend your money on. Then you get an increased consumption space, and that money should go somewhere. Usually they lead to increased consumption of the same energy or something else. There are quite a few examples of this historically. The big technology shifts are a very good example. When it went largely from coal to oil, there was an energy efficiency increase. However, this led to an overall increase in consumption, leading to higher greenhouse gas emissions overall. It can even take the form of eating habits. Someone who forgoes meat for the sake of the climate needs to spend less money on their food and thus gets money over. The person may have a flight for this money, and then it has not contributed to the climate. When the United States wanted to reduce its dependence on imported oil, it chose to make its fleet more efficient. This ultimately led to more driven miles overall and to more consumption of fuel. The Swedish example that may be most exciting on this theme is the vehicle fleet. Contrary to what many politicians want to argue, it is now cheaper to drive a mile than it was 20 years ago. This is the typical example of how the recoil effect works: it introduces a tax, driving new technologies and more efficient engines that require a smaller amount of fuel to run the same distance. This is one of the reasons why we have found it difficult to reduce emissions in the transport sector – people are simply driving more and more miles. So this is the recoil effect. It is a very established truth in the national economy, or rather an established effect of, among other things, economic instruments or efficiency improvements in general. On top of the recoil effect, we have general growth. The efficiency in itself means that you get more money in your wallet and can spend more money on, for example, fuel. In addition to this, public growth also gives you more money in your wallet, which further increases the consumption space. It is, in fact, self-evident that I am standing here talking about things, but the reason why I'm talking about them is because people don't understand that they have practical implications for our policy. In practice, this means – and it is not possible to discuss – that environmental taxes must continue to increase if they are to have control capacity at all. It's the essence of the recoil effect. Sweden has a proud history of these tools. We were the second in the world to introduce a carbon tax, and it has served us very well in several sectors. We have also used green tax exchange and the concept that environmental taxes are being increased as and when. Above all, we did it until 2006; then something happened. According to the OECD, the change in environmental taxation decreased strongly during the year of the Alliance. The EU also notes this. But when the red-green government took power in 2014, something new happened. Then we saw a return to tax rotation and an increase in environmental taxes. They were raised by SEK 12 billion last term. This term of office we raise the bar further to SEK 15 billion. Indexing is a very good response to the recoil effect. If we want environmental taxes to have a controlling effect, they must be increased, and that is what indexation is about. If the Green Party were to decide for ourselves, we would of course have continued with indexing and not paused it. However, we have a rather good compromise. It means that we pause indexation temporarily while, at the same time, we are quite radically increasing quotas within the reduction obligation. This means that we get a controlling environmental impact and get fossils away from the transport sector, but we also have a price effect – the price at the pump will go up because of increased biofuel involvement. This compromise means that we get a clear climate benefit. We pause indexing temporarily and will return in a few years' time when it comes to how to do things in the future.
i-dae4e3061563066c-298	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking Mr Lorentz for this new concept – I have not actually read about it. I think it was interesting. I'm probably even inclined to agree with it theoretically based on my knowledge, which is more in economic history and history in general, which is my subject at the university. At the same time, there are positive examples that I think point in a different direction– at least when I sat on the bench and reflected. One example is the district heating system. I don't think any of us would think of building a house and putting in an oil boiler, but they will have electricity in different variants or connect to the district heating system of the municipality. This has really changed a whole market; it is indeed a system change. I have had the privilege, Madam President, to debate with Mr Lorentz Tovatt on several occasions, and I feel that we both, regardless of how we cut the elephant, have an honest and frank idea that we would like to find systems that make us use less resources but still preserve a functioning welfare. I admit that we have a common thought there. From a Christian Democrat point of view, it is really about systemic issues. In fact, I think it's true that at individual level we tend to think about ourselves. We tend to choose what's good for our own wallet; that's probably how we humans work. Then I will come back to what I myself mentioned in my speech: could it be that the Green Party is willing to actually tackle this within the government with a variant of mileage taxation? What we are describing in our motion and what I am talking about now is a system change that could change traffic flows by using taxation wisely.
i-LMGWEkUxx3wYi5uQpEnrrd	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Jacobsson, for the line! Among other things, Magnus Jacobsson mentioned heavy traffic in his speech. It is a great pity that Magnus Jacobsson – or his party – was involved in making the proposal that the government had last parliamentary term. At least that's how I remember it; I remember that we received massive opposition from the whole parliament except the Left Party. We had just such a proposal that we were going to make and received a rejection from the Riksdag. This would have been a very good instrument, among other things to achieve the ambition to transfer part of the goods from heavy traffic to rail. In addition, we must, as Magnus Jacobsson himself said, get control of the market. It is completely unreasonable that foreign hauliers should be able to enter Swedish roads without paying anything at all; they can evade the Eurovignette fee currently in place. That is totally unreasonable, and it would have been a very good first step to introduce this. As far as the mileage taxation of cars is concerned, I am no stranger to the idea. I think we're gonna have to go that way sooner or later. What I am very concerned about, however, is that we should not get rid of the dominant effect in terms of phasing out the fossil fuel that today's CO2 tax is aimed at. I have not yet seen any examples where a tax solution could be found that could be comprehensive and could have a control both on new car purchases, on car use and on the fuel itself. I imagine that we should retain the CO2 tax today to steer towards better fuel and towards more electrification, but perhaps we still need to have such a tax later to influence the behaviour itself.
i-dae4e3061563066c-307	Madam President, I would like I personally did not have the privilege of being in Parliament in the last parliamentary term, but I devoted myself to regional and local policy. I am therefore obliged, Mr Lorentz, to answer what we may have said or not said at that time. What I do know, however, is that we in the party are conducting a dialogue today and have tried to lift the ideas of kilometre tax as far as we can as a party that is in opposition. If you're going from idea to reality, you might actually have to walk through the government and the entire investigation apparatus. We have listened to various researchers who have written about this, and our experience is that you should be able to lift most of the governing means into a new system. However, this is based on the fact that it is digitised. Rather, the biggest problem we have discussed ourselves is the issue of integrity. Digitalized taxation tells us what kind of car it is and what fuel it has, and it allows the tax to vary over time. It tells you where you are, which means that you can actually get to the problem that the Center Party previously highlighted – that you do not want lower taxes, for example, in a large city where there are alternatives. We also have the fact that it will be far too expensive for a society to build infrastructure based on peak hour. We have to build an infrastructure that works 24 hours, and then we know that we have some pektides when it is crowded. We'll never get away from this in a big city. But we could do that with digital taxation combined with, for example, digital speed cameras and much more. I think we've come as far as we can as a party. That is why my question is this: can the Green Party consider bringing this into a serious investigation into possible future new vehicle and fuel taxation? Perhaps that is where we could find a compromise between the parties in this House.
i-A21Skw34aKwZLHyBgScYeH	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Jacobsson, for the line shift! I really think it was a pity that Magnus Jacobsson did not sit in the Parliament last parliamentary term, because I see him as far more progressive than many of his fellow party members. But that was the case, unfortunately. In fact, I do not think we are far apart on this issue. Now we will see exactly what is happening with the major tax reform, which was announced in the January agreement. I hope, of course, that it will be implemented in one way or another, but it would have been quite good to record a slightly broader review of all types of taxes affecting the transport sector. It would have been a possible first step to look further at this possibility. When it comes to privacy, I share Magnus Jacobsson's concern about that aspect. I also see that there are risks in this. You don't want information to be spread wildly. There should be solutions to that too. Of course it's not fun if it comes out that Lorentz Tovatt was in Gävle yesterday, what he did there and so on. This kind of problem needs to be looked at more closely if we are to proceed with such a solution, quite simply. In a few years' time, I think this will be a very important thing to move on with in different ways. I don't see that it needs to happen right now, because now we have big challenges with the re-sale of new cars – we do that with bonuses– malus– and we change how we run our cars, and we do that with the fuel change and with taxation. It's important right now. In the long term, other solutions will be even more relevant.
i-dae4e3061563066c-318	Madam President, I would like One of the most important prerequisites for a functioning democracy is the realisation of the will of the people. What is the will of the people and how it is best realised can be discussed for a long time. Linked to today's debate, it is ultimately about which is the right tax policy. Assumptions, surveys, reactions and party positions may be interpreted as different expressions of popular will. However, its implementation here in Parliament always requires sufficient support or at least enough resistance. That is why there is a balance between cooperation and conflict between the parties, a battle for their own positions based on ideological fundamental values and cooperation in order to make the best decisions and implement policies. We must never forget the importance of action for democracy. When democracy or democratic parties seem unable to achieve anything, the interest in authoritarian parties and solutions awakens. The answer to the question of what is the right tax policy is a question of values. It is about a large amount of money that people refrain from using privately and directly. Instead, they are handed over to the public in order to be used for the common good. Then, of course, there are also many ideas about what this money should be used for and how much each one should pay. Some want to invest and even out, others want tax deductions for already rich and give profits to private school shareholders. That's why tax debates are very exciting. In the battle for taxes, a clear dividing line between parties emerges. For us Social Democrats, fiscal policy is essentially about being able to finance the strong welfare that the people deserve. It is also about increasing equality by means of a conscious redistribution of wealth. For us, it often means that the person who has little should pay less and that the person who has more should of course pay more, while the common is for everyone who needs it. Members from other parties will have another entry into that debate. We will all consider that we represent the will of the people or at least different parts of it. After the discussion, however, we need to land in a decision that receives the support of the majority, while the minority should be able to live with it. Then the decision has legitimacy. When today's debate is over, the parties will take a position on some of the agreement that has taken place between the government, the Liberals and the Center Party. Madam President, I would like I took this opportunity to start my speech in today's debate with a broader question on fiscal policy and democracy. I hope that one day we will be able to debate a tax reform for the future, a tax reform in which a much greater review of taxes is possible and which lands in a reform proposal that strengthens equality and gender equality, while at the same time having a broad consensus in Parliament. Broad results-oriented solutions are always good for a country. Distaste, distrust, and constant confrontation undermine the unity and action of the nation. The tax proposal on which we are going to decide today contains two different tax measures. Let me briefly tell you what they mean. The first measure is a tax reduction for persons who have income from work, social security benefits and pensions. The reduction is a fixed sum of SEK 1,500 for 2020 and is given to people with an income higher than SEK 40,000 per year. However, a phasing-in of the tax reduction is introduced for persons with income up to SEK 240 000 or SEK 20 000 per month, which roughly corresponds to the income of those with the lowest full-time collective wage levels. The government believes that the tax reduction has a low- and middle-income profile, as the tax reduction is the highest for lower-income people. The tax reduction can lead to an increase in private consumption, which can be assumed to have a positive effect during the Corona crisis. Although the proposal contains a tax reduction, it does not mean a general tax reduction. Instead, it is part of a green tax shift, where increased environmental taxes are balanced against tax reductions on income. The second measure proposed today is an extension of the existing tax relief for experts, which will be extended from the first three years of the temporary stay in Sweden to up to five years. The purpose of our special expert tax regulations is to strengthen Sweden's international competitiveness and increase incentives for international companies to locate or retain, among other things, group-leading functions that require foreign personnel in Sweden. Another aim is to promote Swedish research competitiveness. Through the proposed measure, we can have expert tax rules that are more similar to those of other comparable countries, including our neighbours Finland and Denmark. Madam President, I would like We call for approval of the bill. As things stand at present, none of the parties have announced their intention to vote against the proposal, which means that the committee supports the proposal.
i-dae4e3061563066c-332	Madam President, I would like For us politicians who have the confidence to sit in the Swedish parliament during an ongoing pandemic and crisis, it is not a day without thinking about the people who have been affected by the crisis. This applies to both those who have suffered ill health or, in the worst case, lost a family member and those who have lost their job or their company because it no longer goes around. This also applies to all the people who struggle every day against anxiety and anxiety about the situation. I can only agree with the previous speaker that those of us who now have power and decision-making rights must, of course, make an effort to reach agreement and set out a way forward, but on the basis of sound values and principles. This case concerns the tax cuts proposed by the current government, together with the Center Party and the Liberals. As it is a budgetary matter, we do not have any other claim, but we do not take part in the decision, in accordance with the reservation ban that exists in the Tax Committee for additions to the budget that will come later. On the other hand, we have different views from those of the government, the Center Party and the Liberals. Minister for Labour Eva Nordmark said the other day that it is a mouthpiece to reduce taxes, that is to say, a mouthful that families with children and pensioners are allowed to keep a little more of their income. That, Madam President, is an unworthy view of people being allowed to keep more when they work and retain more of their pension. We also disagree with the government and the cooperation parties. We believe that tax cuts should be carried out in a responsible manner, leading to more people getting into work and also ensuring that we have stable and secure revenue for the state's finances. The patchwork of policies we are now seeing from the government and the cooperation parties do not lead to more jobs because tax cuts are also directed at benefit income. It is therefore not more profitable to work but, on the contrary, more profitable not to work when reducing the tax on benefit income. Nor do the government and its partners devote sufficient effort to supporting and helping the country's pensioners. We propose a four times greater tax cut for the country's pensioners than the Liberals, the Center Party and the government – simply so that it should always have paid off to work. The Moderates' proposal, to which we refer in our specific opinion, is about providing good opportunities for Sweden to recover after the crisis but also about providing relief during the crisis. We have run the government ahead of us on the question and received aid packages after aid packages on the ground, but still far from being sufficiently done. Madam President, I would like What is ironic and regrettable is that it has clearly been the most difficult to get the government to invest in the support packages and support measures where there are the most women. Here, the resistance or the slowness has been greatest. It's strange. Unfortunately, our proposal with a lower tax burden than the government and the cooperation parties are proposing will not become a reality because our framework has fallen. But in our proposal, we are pooling our strength to ensure that Sweden can once again become a country with full employment and high economic growth. Stefan Löfven promised in the solemn speeches that he would become Prime Minister that Sweden would have Europe's lowest unemployment. But last time I checked, we had the fifth or sixth highest unemployment rate, in the face of the crisis. There was talk of growth catapults and innovation chancellors, but instead Swedish growth fell to the very bottom of the European Union. Madam President, I would like It is an unsustainable economic policy, and it is irresponsible for the government to bring forward tax cuts that do not contribute to jobs and growth but instead make it more profitable to live on subsidies and not make an effort. This is what happens when parties that disagree with each other sit down and try to push through favorite points on their wish lists instead of when more like-minded parties make a joint assessment of what are Sweden's problems and challenges and then solve them. We propose a reduced tax on labour through an extended job tax deduction so that all jobs become 500 SEK more profitable each month. This makes it more profitable to work and also makes more jobs more profitable so that employment overall can increase. We are resolutely dismissing the very complicated process that is now awaiting the tax system. Here it is clear that the Center Party and the Social Democrats have negotiated, on the basis of different starting points and values, a range of rebates and rebates in the tax system rather than a rational, simple and coherent tax system. Sweden has tested this path before with an international tax burden that is too high to compensate with a variety of rebates, discounts and credits. It took an end of horror when the 1990s crisis finally broke out and half a million people lost their job in six months. Different discounts and regulatory deductions will always be best used by those companies that have stopped growing, which are already large and well-established and have lawyers and auditors in place inside their operations. But they can't be used by the new ones, those who want something new, those who are entrepreneurial and don't want to create the jobs we had yesterday without the ones we're going to have tomorrow. That is why the Moderates are so clearly making progress in lowering corporate tax. We want to make enterprise in general more profitable in the country. Madam President, I would like Our priority in the budget is clear. It's about a simple tax system where jobs pay off so that we break exclusion, where entrepreneurship and investment pay off so that we can take Sweden back to full employment and where it should always pay to have worked – and therefore we lower the tax four times more for the country's pensioners than the government does. With the changes that take place in the pension system, a pensioner with the Moderates' budget would receive about SEK 500 more a month next year, which is just as much as the person who works would receive. It is a fair tax policy that holds Sweden together. Madam President, I would like Finally, I am concerned that Sweden has such high unemployment, such low growth and a government dedicated to pushing through party political wish lists instead of doing what is needed to enable job growth and economic growth to take off after the crisis. I strongly urge all parties to stop messing with the tax system and instead make it more profitable to work and run businesses so that we can afford more the world's best welfare and get a country that is intertwined across geographical distances and generational boundaries.
i-dae4e3061563066c-356	Madam President, I would like The proposal contains two proposals, one on the tax reduction for earned income and one on the extension of the time limit for expert tax. The Swedish Democrats have not reserved for this, but we set out our position in two specific opinions. The Government's proposal for a tax reduction on earned income is justified by the fact that it is part of the so-called green tax exchange. As is well known, this green tax shift is being called into question by more and more people. For example, from Teknikföretagen we hear that it is clearly a question of raising money to the public purse and that there are usually extra costs for companies that they can do nothing about. There is a risk that companies will move production to other countries or that competitors will gain market shares. From Timbro there are similar sounds. The CO2 tax is about three times higher than the scientific estimate of environmental damage. The fuel tax is far too high in relation to the socio-economic costs of motorism. Nor is there any reason to have a special tax on electricity because electricity in itself does not harm the environment. Each type of energy should be taxed according to its environmental costs through, for example, carbon tax. Taxes on nuclear and hydroelectric power are higher than can be justified on the basis of economic theory. These were just two examples. Criticism comes from many different directions and clearly states that the purpose of the increased taxes will not be achieved. Nor does the government lack imagination as regards the green exchange of taxes. It's place bag tax, chemical tax, airline tax, and taxes on clothes and shoes. These are other examples that we have debated in the past and which are unlikely to lead either to a greener world or to halt climate change. The Swedish democrats have questioned this exchange of taxes in various contexts. However, since the taxes are already in place and the tax increases have already been implemented, we choose not to participate in the decision on a tax reduction for earned income in the Government proposal. With regard to the extended time limit for expert taxation, we have decided with some hesitation to endorse the proposal.
i-dae4e3061563066c-363	Madam President, I would like I would like to reflect a little on the opening words we heard here from both the first speaker and the following. They talked about the tax base. We are, of course, in this House keen that taxes should go to our common welfare. What we are not really a bit about historically and not now, which is tough in the January negotiations, is: what is it that generates tax revenue? What is it that makes our tax revenue increase? For the Center Party, it goes without saying that it is our small and medium-sized enterprises that are generating our revenues. We must therefore ensure that it is easy, cheap and functional to employ. The budget we now have to look forward to is a broad palette of short-term measures combined with long-term reforms that allow jobs to grow and the competitiveness of companies to be strengthened in the long term. The focus is and must be on maintaining consumption and demand, while at the same time implementing efforts to improve and modernise the Swedish economy in the long term. It is important in a crisis not only to solve the acute crisis that is here and now, but also to try to face the problems we see waiting when we come out on the other side. For me, the job tax deduction now being introduced and the extended expert tax are two clear examples of both short- and long-term reform work. We are talking about 7.2 million people being taxed less. Madam President, I would like Lower income taxes, not least too low and medium-high incomes, are wise long-term reform policies. But it is also a question of incentive policies that give people a little more money to move around with. More money in the pocket will land in the service sector, service sector, tourism and much more. It's part of getting the reels to keep spinning. Madam President, I would like As the time limit for expert taxation is now extended to five years, we will have a regulatory framework that better harmonises with those in other countries in Europe and thus improves our relative attractiveness and competitiveness. This applies, in particular, to the regulations of our two neighbouring countries, Finland and Denmark. Regulatory frameworks in general and taxes in particular that companies have to relate to need to be designed to strengthen our ability to attract cutting-edge expertise internationally. Madam President, I would like Of course, companies do not lie down and stop doing their innovation and research work. However, the reform can attract experts, researchers and other key people when the activities re-start and stimulate companies to invest in research and innovation despite the current situation. But, of course, these reforms cannot be seen in isolation from the remaining fiscal changes in the budget. Step by step, we must build the Swedish economy stronger in the long term. Madam President, I would like Hopefully, with this budget and these reforms, we can mark a shift from pure crisis policy to more forward-looking policies where we build Sweden in the long term stronger and where we support our companies not only through pure crisis support but rather through wise tax cuts and investments that provide new contracts, new jobs and new business so that the wheels start and continue to spin. I support the committee's proposal.
i-dae4e3061563066c-373	Madam President, I would like One of the more successful reforms in the alliance years was the introduction of the job tax credit. The tax cuts, carried out in several rounds, together have meant that everyone who works now receives an additional monthly salary per year compared to what it would have been like if nothing had been done. The job tax deduction was an important part of the realisation of what was called the work line – that it should pay off from benefit or insurance income to an earned income, and that more people who work strengthen welfare. The tax cuts also led to increased economic freedom for people. It is an important goal in itself, but it also means stronger growth and more jobs. That policy paid off. The tax burden, i.e. the tax base per inhabitant, was greatly strengthened during this time. During the eight years, the tax force increased from SEK 162 600 to SEK 185 800, calculated in constant 2014 prices. The economic and welfare policy conducted with the Christian Democrats and the Alliance in government meant that resources for school, healthcare and care increased by more than SEK 100 billion in fixed prices. The Christian Democrats want to continue to develop fiscal policy in the spirit of the work line. We have several proposals for reductions in taxes for broad groups of employees, pensioners and those who find it more difficult to enter the labour market. Our tax proposals reduce the marginal impact on those who go from benefits and benefits to work and increase the drivers of higher education. With our draft budget, people with earned income, pension and business income had received a tax reduction of approximately 0.63% of their income up to SEK 42,400 a month. For an average income, there had been a tax relief of $200 a month. In our budget, we also have proposals for tax cuts for other income categories. It is important to reduce taxes for everyone, but it must always pay more to have an earned income. For unemployment insurance, parental allowance, sickness and activity benefits, we want to reduce taxes by 0.32% of income. With the tax cut now proposed, the January parties depart from the work line. Of course, the Social Democrats and the Green Party have nothing against it; the work line has probably never been high in the course there. More surprising is that the Center Party and the Liberals break with this central principle in the policy of the alliance government. Fewer jobs are now becoming profitable. The drive to work will be reduced. That is why the Christian Democrats also reject this proposal in favour of our own draft budget. However, since it is a budgetary matter, we choose not to take part in the decision. Madam President, I would like The present proposal contains another tax proposal. This is the proposal for an extended time limit for expert tax. The proposal extends the tax relief available to foreign experts, researchers and other key personnel so that the tax relief will last for five years instead of three. The aim is to strengthen Sweden's competitiveness by, for example, increasing the willingness of international companies to locate offices in Sweden. This is a step in the right direction. At the same time, however, we must remember that the corresponding rules exist in other countries and that many of these have more generous deadlines than we have. Denmark has seven years. The Netherlands has ten years. Belgium has no limitation at all. In other words, the incentives to put this kind of business in Sweden will still be worse than in many of our competitor countries. If we are to have a policy that strengthens Sweden's ability to attract world-leading companies in the long term and thereby also strengthens Sweden's competitiveness, our prosperity and our well-being, we must continuously work to make Sweden fiscally attractive with the ambition not only to follow our competitors but also to become the best.
i-dae4e3061563066c-382	Madam President, I would like Today we are dealing with an important report that will strengthen Sweden's international competitiveness and increase the incentives for international companies to want to establish themselves in Sweden. Among other things, the report proposes, as other speakers have mentioned, tax incentives for experts, researchers and other key figures from other countries. They should be able to come to Sweden more easily by extending the expert tax from today's three to five years. It is an important message to companies and a very important victory for us liberals that we are now getting through a series of important tax incentives to strengthen Sweden's attractiveness and make Sweden a growth-promoting country. Madam President, I would like It is not just a question of extending the expert tax to five years, although that is the starting point for this particular report. This is combined with a reduction in corporate tax with a new deduction for investments, new rules on how deductions for group-subsidised deficits are to be made, and an extension of the R & D deduction with a substantial reduction in employers' contributions are introduced in the next year's state budget. All these changes together will strengthen the attractiveness of Swedish business and Swedish companies and create opportunities for them to compete on equal terms in the global market. At the same time, it becomes more attractive for people from other countries to join the Swedish labour market and contribute their knowledge and expertise. The truth is that we can neither afford nor wait to equip Sweden for the future. Not least because of the financial damage that the pandemic has caused to the Swedish economy, it will be particularly important to start with future investments now. Madam President, I would like We Liberals believe in freedom of movement, not least within the EU. We want to affirm globalisation, and we look with confidence at the future. However, I note that not all parliamentary parties reason in this way. It is perfectly reasonable in a democracy to have different views, but I note that the two extreme parties in Parliament, the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party, want to restrict the free movement that has made Sweden a stronger and more competitive country. In their specific opinions they express in different ways the protectionism that is the common denominator for these two parties and a view of the world outside Sweden and how Sweden will become a part of it. In its budget motion, the Left Party does not wish to extend the expert tax. The Left Party sees no objective reason to further reduce the tax for an already privileged group and believes that the proposal undermines the legitimacy of the tax system when some have cream files with lower taxes. It is a rather distorted view of growth and economic development, I have to say. The Swedish Democrats are also clear about their views. They express concern about and see weaknesses in the Swedish tax system because it is not competitive enough. On this point I certainly agree with them, but what I think is worrying and a recurring approach is the view of other people and the protectionism they repeatedly emphasise. They believe that one should not have to have special rules and attract people here because we would put domestic experts at a disadvantage by attracting others here. Why should people be pitted against each other? Why can't you do both? That should be the starting point for economic policy, I think. For us liberals, it is through a good business environment that new companies can be set up, that existing ones can grow and that large companies can become more internationally competitive. Madam President, I would like During the Corona crisis, the economy has weakened considerably. We need to safeguard the growth and development that free people and free markets create and contribute to. If Sweden is to recover from the Corona crisis, more liberal reforms are needed to strengthen economic growth. We don't need any more restrictions. Protectionism, nationalism and populism risk making Sweden a poorer country. The best medicine to protect Swedish competitiveness is to safeguard the freedoms that make us a cutting edge country in innovation with high competitiveness. Therefore, I am nevertheless pleased that there is a broad consensus in the Riksdag on how Sweden should be equipped for the future and how competitiveness can be strengthened, both in Sweden and in the global markets that we are part of. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in today's report.
i-dae4e3061563066c-393	Madam President, I would like The main issue in this bill is a proposal for certain listed companies to comply with audit requirements regarding so-called uniform electronic reporting. On this issue, we are in complete agreement with the government. The proposal is based on an EU regulation, and the requirement for accounting to allow uniform electronic reporting already applies. Today's proposal only concerns that this should also be certified by the auditors. It is perfectly reasonable but rather small legislative changes. However, that is not why I have to go up in this debate, Madam President. The reason I am standing here is that the government has also included in this bill a completely different issue, an issue that really has nothing to do with the EU regulations on the audit of uniform electronic reporting formats. I am standing here because of the announcement we Moderates made in the Civil Committee last spring. It is about how the government and parliament can by quite simple means prevent many fundamentally viable companies from being forced into bankruptcy due to the pandemic. Madam President, I would like I don't think I need to tell anyone that Sweden is in the middle of the second wave of coronapandemine. It is a pandemic caused by a virus, the consequences of which are victims in two ways: on the one hand, all the people who fall ill and, at worst, die from the disease caused by the virus, and on the other hand, all the people who are affected by the economic crisis caused by the virus. With closed borders, bans on crowds and restrictions on, among other things, the restaurant industry, many Swedes have been severely affected financially. As early as March, we received warning signals that this pandemic was in danger of becoming long - lasting and coming in waves. Many pointed out that most companies have some perseverance but that the longer the crisis goes on, the more will succumb. Therefore, it was important for us Moderates both to deploy support there and then and to quickly put in place measures to enable companies to survive even a long-term crisis. Madam President, I would like The announcement we are now discussing is about reviewing the time limits in the Companies Act that apply to personal liability. Fortunately, on 14 May we received a majority with us for an announcement in this House. The Government now chooses to consider the announcement to have been finalised without action and refers, among other things, to the holding of two digital consultation meetings, despite the fact that both FAR and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise have stated at the consultation meetings that there are predominantly reasons for a temporary extension of the deadlines. The Government also refers to the fact that the Swedish Companies Registration Office stated that the number of voluntary liquidations during the period March – July this year has been at the same level as the corresponding periods of the previous two years. But what the government is missing from that line of reasoning are two things, Madam President. One is that we did not propose changes to the legislation because we saw a great wave in the summer, that is, at the beginning of the pandemic. On the contrary, the longer this crisis goes on, the more difficult the situation will be for many companies that are fundamentally viable but are now losing revenue sources. The second thing you miss is that a Swedish section on the number of bankruptcies or liquidations does not give the whole truth. The number of bankruptcies is stable across Sweden. That's correct. But there are major regional differences, and that depends on the composition of the business community in different parts of our country. I live in Gothenburg myself. Gothenburg and West Sweden have a long and proud tradition of both trading and having a strong tourism industry, including with a focus on major events. During April to October this year, a total of 2 365 employees in Gothenburg have been affected by the bankruptcy of their employer. That is an increase of breathtaking 157 % compared to the same period last year – 157 %, Madam President! I can say that the image in Gothenburg is not that the number of bankruptcies and liquidations is stable at the same level as before the corona. When you talk to entrepreneurs, whether it's in Gothenburg or somewhere else in Sweden, the picture is not that the worst has been without the worst still waiting. That is why, Madam President, we are choosing to propose that Parliament send a new announcement that the government should initiate a new review as soon as possible. We do not believe that the review carried out in response to the previous announcement is sufficiently robust. A new review should include a careful examination of the pros and cons of temporarily extending the so-called eight-month period. Now the issue has not yet been settled in this House, Madam President, but when it was decided in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, the initiative fell because the two government support parties chose to change their feet compared to last spring. It is a pity that no one from either the Center Party or the Liberals has been registered for this debate. There are two parties that have previously been known to support entrepreneurship. It would have been interesting to know what is behind changing their position by 180 degrees, while the economic crisis continues to worsen for trade, hotels and the restaurant industry, among other things. Having said that, Madam President, I am in favour of the reservations of the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats in question 2.
i-C3wckjxzQQN6ngnZXDp2qe	Madam President, I would like The new audit regulation introduces a requirement for the audit report of the undertakings concerned to include a statement as to whether the annual and consolidated financial statements are drawn up in accordance with the format requirements of the ESEF Regulation. It can be noted that the new requirement for audit comes under EU law and applies throughout the EU. It may sound like a simple action that everyone should now use the same format and that it should also be checked, but it is quite advanced to get into the details. It is also highly remarkable that the government is presenting its legislative proposal only a few months before the planned entry into force, not least because there is a clear risk that the new audit requirement will increase the difficulty for smaller operators, and probably also medium-sized ones, to take on audit assignments from listed companies. The new regulation can thus be assumed to consolidate a market concentration in the auditing sector, which is even greater than it is today. In addition, more extensive information efforts should be needed than the usual information provided by the relevant authorities on, inter alia, their websites. Today it is difficult to find relevant information about the format requirements. Madam President, I would like Earlier this week, when I tried to search for a search for Efes and I did not get any hits at all on the website of the Swedish Tax Agency. On the Swedish Companies Registration Office's own website I got at least three hits, but none of them gave any guidance on what Esef actually means for a company in Sweden and even less what it might mean for the new audit obligation. Searches such as our XHTML, XBRL, and XBRL, also did not provide any hits on aktivitet.se, which should be the link between authorities such as the Swedish Companies Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Growth Agency, the Swedish Employment Service and companies and the Swedish business community. There should be positive effects of a uniform formal requirement, but there is definitely a need for more and better information aimed at market players in order to avoid unnecessary problems. Today, in principle, there is no information at all on the websites of the relevant authorities, and the law will apply as early as 1 January, i.e. in less than a month's time. It is our view that the government should put forward concrete proposals on how to deal with the increased need for training and information measures brought about by the new regulation, and that is, to say the least, urgent. It is also my view that the government should come back with a proposal that counteracts the negative consequences that the new regulation may have on the risk of market concentration in the audit industry and the difficulties for smaller audit firms to take on tasks. Finally, Madam President, I would like to mention the second issue in this report: the personal liability of company representatives. We believe that it is highly appropriate to extend the current deadlines so that company representatives do not take hasty decisions and otherwise put viable companies into bankruptcy simply to avoid personal liability. Unfortunately, the government does not believe that there are sufficient grounds for even introducing a temporary extension of the deadlines. We regret that the government is so unacceptable to the situation of companies. With that, I would like to endorse our reservation 1.
i-dae4e3061563066c-416	Madam President, I would like Corona has brought new conditions for all of us. Things that just a year ago were quite far away are now all-natural everyday things. I think about how we and our work situation have changed, from every week getting up to the Parliament House, having meetings within the house and also around the city to now having the workplace at home. Zoom, Teams and Skype have become key tools for us to cope with our work situation. However, I argue that the change that we have been forced to make is small in comparison with the situation that the hard-working entrepreneurs in our elongated country need to cope with. They have had to face a whole new reality overnight. The old truths no longer apply, but the survival of their companies, which they may have had for decades, lies in changing and doing in new ways for customers to find their way back. Some are very good at seeing the changes, at implementing the necessary measures and at getting back on your feet quite quickly. I argue that many good entrepreneurs, who want to save their company for the future, are doing everything in their power to make the changes, but it takes a little longer than you expect. I argue that every entrepreneur who dares to invest, drive and develop, but who also dares to make changes in times like these, is worth gold to a nation like ours. They represent the important companies that create jobs, and in the future they create the revenue for the well-being that both you and I want. I believe that we, as a nation, are obliged to make it easier for them in this process of transition, to have confidence in their ability and to have the courage to step aside in order to allow them the time needed, even if it may pose a greater risk to the state. It is a small part of this to give entrepreneurs an extension of the time limit for making a second balance sheet. We do not believe that the announcement is complete in the sense that the government has implemented the measures that the Parliament considered needed to be implemented. There has been neither a proper investigation nor an impact assessment nor any action taken. Following developments is not enough, but a proposal for an extension should be put on the table of Parliament. Putting entrepreneurs at even greater risk and perhaps putting companies that can become viable in bankruptcy over time does not benefit the nation, society or welfare. We believe that the deadline for drawing up a second balance sheet should be extended at this time. The government should come back with such a proposal. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-dae4e3061563066c-422	Madam President, I would like This debate is about an EU regulation that is binding and directly applicable in Swedish law. Then one might wonder why we are here debating today. However, my colleagues have made that very clear in their speeches. In accordance with the EU Transparency Directive, certain listed companies are required to prepare annual and consolidated financial statements using a uniform electronic reporting format. The obligation applies to public limited liability companies and other issuers of securities admitted to trading on a regulated market. The uniform format to be used is specified, as we have heard before, in more detail in the so-called Esef Regulation of the European Commission. The Government notes that the application of that Regulation results from EU law that the company's auditor shall give an opinion in audit reports on whether annual and consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with the uniform electronic format. However, there is no clear support in Swedish law for auditors to have such an obligation. Such support therefore needs to be included, according to the Government, in, among other things, the Swedish Companies Act and the Act on Economic Associations, where the other provisions on the content of the audit report are contained. Against this background, the Government is now proposing legislative amendments that require the audit report of the companies concerned to include a statement as to whether the annual accounts, and where appropriate the consolidated financial statements, are prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Regulation. The Government argues that the proposals should strengthen investors' confidence in the financial statements that a company prepares in the single electronic format. There has been no motion against the parliament's adoption of the government's bill. That is why I would like to support the proposal in the report.
i-dae4e3061563066c-426	Madam President, I would like In addition to the main issue, it is included in the bill to conclude an announcement, which the Green Party, together with the Social Democrats and the Left Party, have always been opposed to. I just have one question. In the reservation submitted by the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party when the Civil Committee adopted the committee initiative in May to mitigate the economic consequences of the pandemic, it says: ..................................................... Six months have now passed since the announcement was dealt with, and the economic crisis does not seem to end in the near future. That is why my question, Madam President, is: what measures do Emma Hult consider appropriate in the area of association law or insolvency law to reduce bankruptcy, reorganisations and liquidations and thereby mitigate the economic effects of the pandemic? Or does Emma Hult, as the representative of one of the government parties, believe that the rules of association law and insolvency law should not be used to reduce the number of bankruptcies caused by the pandemic?
i-7YmF3CG1Ucg9LCrcCzpb6x	Madam President, I would like Thank you, David Josefsson, for the question. We believe that the proposal that you are making, both earlier this year and now, does not contain the measures that we want to implement in order to change the legislation. We have also been quite clear about why. We are afraid of what will happen to the creditors who are led into the belief that the companies have better liquidity than they have. I believe, to be perfectly honest, that the government's efforts such as budget support and financial support for businesses around our country are more important measures than screwing up the deadlines in legislation.
i-dae4e3061563066c-431	Madam President, I would like It has become clear that you do not think our proposals are good, Emma Hult. But I didn't quite get a clear answer. That's why I'm asking the question again. Do the government parties have any concrete ideas on using the tools of association law or insolvency law to minimise the number of bankruptcies? Or has it been deliberately decided that association law and insolvency law should not be used to mitigate the negative economic consequences of the pandemic?
i-dae4e3061563066c-433	Madam President, I would like No, we have not made a decision not to make changes to insolvency or association law. Such a decision has not been made. The government is continuing to work on the issue. This has also been made clear. There have been two meetings with stakeholders, and the discussions that arose there will of course be taken further. We are just as concerned as David Josefsson about the development this can lead to. However, the proposals that are on the table today, the initiative and the reservation that exist, are not something that we choose to support. On the other hand, I am pleased with the budgetary efforts that the government chooses to make to support entrepreneurs so that they can survive. In this way, it also supports those creditors who have invested capital to help those companies.
i-dae4e3061563066c-436	Madam President, I would like It's been interesting listening. Once again, the previous speaker has explained quite well what it is all about. The main issue is therefore whether or not we should introduce a statement whether or not a standard has been used. This applies to some, not more than a hundred, listed companies. The auditor shall state whether they use a standard that is already used by the vast majority of them. It is a rather straightforward matter. Strengthening investor confidence is an important point. After all, in a market economy, we have confidence in each other. It is a good thing that the EU is going in and trying to create uniform rules that everyone across the Union can know about. That is a good thing about Europe. I think investors want stable conditions. Sweden is well known throughout the world to provide good conditions for investments. It turns out time and again that Swedish companies and foreign actors have confidence in Sweden. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the introduction itself may be somewhat delayed in the future because, as late as 18 November, Finansinspektionen sent out a request for referrals as to whether this would be a good thing to introduce now. There are ongoing discussions in the EU on whether it is reasonable at the moment to introduce this with regard to the pandemic. However, the government continues to believe that it is just as good to stick this law so that it is in place when the time comes. Otherwise, I do not have much to add to this part. As far as personal liability is concerned, this is, after all, what Emma Hult described earlier. This is not just about the debtor, that is, the person who is at risk of having his company declared bankrupt. Without it, it is also about those who are creditors, that is, those who have lent money to or have claims – claims for money – for the company that is at risk of going bankrupt. It is important here to strike a balance between different interests, as on so many other issues we have to deal with. I am a little surprised by the frenzy with which the parties on the right are pushing the question of making it easier for debtors to escape responsibility for their debts. Actually, that's what they're saying. This could have consequences so that the payment system starts to limp. It may have the consequence that you do not take out loans, but instead you start paying investments in advance. If you link it to a good investment environment, this would be highly destructive. So the question is not so simple that it is only about one's risk of bankruptcy and that everyone else is happy. If one goes bankrupt and the others do not get their claims, they also risk going bankrupt. Therefore, regulatory changes such as these must be applied with caution.
i-dae4e3061563066c-444	Madam President, I would like Just as Ola Möller mentions, this is about a balance between different interests. Last week Marie Karlsson Tuula, professor of civil law with a focus on insolvency law, and Rolf Åbjörnsson, lawyer and specialist in insolvency law, wrote a debate article in Dagens Juridik. They warned that Sweden is facing a coming wave of bankruptcy and demanded regulatory changes from us decision-makers. Writers pointed out that in several countries, such as Germany, Spain, the United Kingdom, the United States and Australia, various measures in insolvency law have been taken to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic. Rebalancing has therefore been carried out because of the event of the pandemic. With exactly the same reasoning, our neighbouring country, Finland, has also made fundamental changes to insolvency law in order to reduce the number of bankruptcies. Madam President, I would like My question to Ola Möller is therefore: Why have the Social Democrats in Sweden, unlike party brothers and sisters in Finland, chosen not to make any changes in association or insolvency law to mitigate and mitigate the consequences of the pandemic for Sweden's companies?
i-dae4e3061563066c-446	Madam President, I would like David Josefsson believes that the Swedish Government has made no efforts in this area, and that is possibly right. But many other efforts have been made: conversion aid, lay-off wages, rent discounts, tax deferrals and so on. What the Swedish government has done is to have contributed money, and it is money that is needed when running a company, not regulatory changes. Then more companies can survive. We can see that the number of bankruptcies to date is fewer than they were last year – possibly with regional differences, which David Josefsson raised. However, this means that bankruptcy in other parts of the country has decreased significantly compared to the same period last year. It must therefore be the national perspective that the government takes into account. The Swedish government has thus made great efforts to help Sweden's companies. The government must also look at reality. Have more initial balance sheets been drawn up than are usually done? The answer to the question is no. Of course, if we see an avalanche increase in the establishment of the first balance of checks and balances, we can come back and act. There we can have a dialogue, which we have had about many other things when we have dealt with the situation with the pandemic. So this is not out of the question. However, if there are no indications that more balance sheets will be drawn up, there is no reason to change the rules, and then it is money that matters.
i-dae4e3061563066c-449	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ola Möller, for the answer! Although it was wordy, I do not know if I received any concrete answers to my question. My supplementary question is therefore the same as I put to Emma Hult: are there any concrete ideas on the part of the government parties about using the tools of association law or insolvency law to minimise the number of bankruptcies? Or has it been deliberately decided at this point that association law and insolvency law should not be used to mitigate the negative economic consequences of the ongoing pandemic?
i-dae4e3061563066c-451	Madam President, I would like Of course, the government continuously evaluates all the legislation that forms the basis for how we deal with the pandemic and everything else in society. It is also seen, among other things, that the risks of this being exploited by criminals could increase significantly. The Swedish Companies Registration Office, the Swedish Enforcement Authority, the Swedish Economic Crime Authority, the Swedish Audit Office and the Swedish Tax Agency have expressed concern that criminals will use this. This rhymes very badly, David Josefsson, with the Moderates' argument in the Committee on Justice that you should take tougher demands and tighten the legislation. It's supposed to be tough. In the Civil Committee, the Moderates say that we should open the doors so that it will be easier for criminals to use the form of public limited liability companies. Perhaps it is, David Josefsson, that it differs depending on who is affected. One affects suburban skis. The second affects those in white shirts who commit crimes via the economic system. Perhaps that is why the Moderates are not equally preoccupied with ensuring that the legislation protects all parties on this issue. The protection of creditors and the protection of society are extremely important in this. One in four bankruptcies is suspected to be fraudulent. The Construction Market Commission had an excellent seminar here. It's on Youtube for David Josefsson to watch. It highlights how bankruptcies are exploited in the construction sector, a subject that we in the Committee on Civil Liberties often discuss. You can't remove laws without having consequences. I think the Moderates should be consistent when they go on criminals, so that they don't just go after suburban skis.
i-dae4e3061563066c-456	Madam President, I would like The worst thing that exists is politicians who make decisions that others should live up to about things that they themselves neither understand nor can explain. The criticism of the revision of the uniform electronic reporting format is precisely that it is not easy to understand and understand, even for an audit firm. As I mentioned earlier in my speech, there is no or very little guidance on the part of the state authorities. Soon the law will apply, and then the limited liability companies will have to do the right thing and the auditors will know exactly what to look for. The auditor must know what the standard is and what it means. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Socialist representative here whether he can briefly outline the three basic requirements of the Esef that the audit is now going to check. What do these requirements mean in concrete terms for companies? How should the audit deal with this to see how these are fulfilled?
i-dae4e3061563066c-459	Madam President, I would like I can inform Mikael Eskilandersson that I am not an accountant. That is why I have not gone into the matter in depth. One might think that a legislator should do so and know every detail of an audit standard. But I have full confidence that those who sit in the EU and draw up such a standard are fully aware of what this is all about. Because an audit firm that is already dealing with listed companies has an eye on these issues and it is it that will issue an opinion on whether or not the standard has been complied with, I do not need to know every detail, but it is the audit that should know them. It is also interesting that Mikael Eskilandersson in his speech referred to aktivitet.se. It is a page that is for those who have started a business or who need some guidance in how to run their business. This applies to certain listed companies. I don't think Scania, Volvo or Ericsson are in business.se. Does Mikael Eskilandersson think that Volvo does not know what it is that they should account for? I have full confidence that Sweden's listed companies will be able to do this. Similarly, I have full confidence that the audit firms that undertake these tasks have much better control than I have on the individual details. It cannot be the case that the legislator should be a professional and the profession should be a legislator. There's a reason we're separating them. There are also authorities that interpret the legislation and set the standards that apply.
i-dae4e3061563066c-462	Madam President, I would like If Ola Möller had listened to my speech, he would also have heard that I have looked at other pages, such as the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Companies Agency. One might think that any page should provide information on what Esef really means and what the new requirement means, especially given how short it is before it is to be introduced. I think that we as legislators have a certain obligation to understand what we are actually deciding on, and it is not so difficult to get to grips with this – I myself have managed to do it. It is a matter of reporting to comply with XHTML format. Using IFRS, which is the international way of managing financial statements, should be complemented by what is called XBRL tags – something that the EU has rather taken on board. One might wonder why international IFRSs are not enough, but it is a little at a detailed level. The fact that the EU knows what this is about may not directly help our companies, and it does not have to be a huge company that is affected by the Esef Regulation because it is enough for the company to be listed. There are small companies that are listed today in Sweden. To argue that it is only the big companies that are affected is to make it a little too easy for themselves. The auditors would probably have needed a little more guidance than they get from the authorities who are going to guide them today and who today should have better information on their pages. It is bad for the government not to make sure that there is more concrete working information for those companies that are actually thinking about a listing.
i-dae4e3061563066c-465	Madam President, I would like Once legislation has been adopted, the authorities will take it in and provide the necessary information. The format is used in many ways already, and the audit firms that are in it can. It is interesting with Mikael Eskilandersson's work for all the small audit firms. If Mikael Eskilandersson had really wanted to help Sweden's audit industry, Mikael Eskilandersson might suggest that we reintroduce the audit obligation for small companies. There are 1.2 million companies in Sweden. The majority of them have no audit obligations. Mikael Eskilandersson has not lifted a finger to help the audit industry get more work to revise. Those who have done so include the Left Party, Anders Hansson from the Moderates and Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen from the Center Party. They have raised motions to increase the possibility for small audit firms to work. Mikael Eskilandersson passion for the Swedish accounting firm's market now to function well is on the table. Instead, it is about the conditions of big business. These are the terms of the stock exchange companies. Don't give them any more burden. We have heard that argument in relation to the sustainability reports, which I do not have a 100% detailed look at either. But I am fully aware that when big business needs help, the Swedish Democrats are ready to ask what they can do. We also see this when it comes to profits in welfare and so on. The Swedish democrats stand in attention when big business comes. That is what this is about, not the details of an EU regulatory framework.
i-dae4e3061563066c-469	Madam President, I would like I think we should return to representative responsibility and the deadline for drawing up a second balance sheet. It is true that you should think about who wins and who loses on an extension of a deadline. I argue that everyone wins because those who are creditors, suppliers of these companies, have an opportunity to get their money back. Surely the company that is in default already owes the supplier quite a lot of money. This means that the companies have a little longer time to get back on their feet and that the supplier can actually get their money. The biggest problem for the vast majority of suppliers is when they have an established loss, i.e. a loss that they have to write off from their accounts. This means that they, in turn, have to draw up a balance sheet. I think there is a misconception that it is the second balance sheet that determines who receives personal liability. Unfortunately, this is not the case, but you have to establish the first balance of checks and balances. This means that it does not matter whether the deadline is extended for two, three, four or five months, because personal responsibility is the same regardless of when the deadline comes. I believe that the government and the cooperation parties have made a mistake, and I think you can save many companies from bankruptcy if you give them a little more time to pick up. Of course, we have to see that there is a viability, but if we extend the time for two more months, I think that many of the creditors and suppliers would be happy if it turned to plus instead of actually having to take the fall in their accounts.
i-dae4e3061563066c-473	Madam President, I would like I thank Larry Söder for a balanced and good post. I understand Larry Söder's concerns and I can agree very much with them. If it had been the case that the number of first-established balance sheets had increased, the government and I would have seen that it is a real problem, but it is not because they have not increased. There are fewer bankruptcies. Another barrier that is purely fiscal – actually monetary policy, and that we can divide – is that the possibility of raising loans has improved significantly for small and medium-sized enterprises thanks to the guarantee of 100 billion that the state has issued to the banks. This means that if as an entrepreneur I have the problem that my creditor risks not getting paid, I can go to the bank and get a good trial of my company. Is it viable or not? If it is viable, the bank will of course say that it is clear that it will issue a loan because it will be repaid. Then the issue has been resolved without opening the floodgates to increased crime or risk build-up in the system. The issues can be addressed in different ways. It is possible that a change is needed here too. But then we can look at this continuously. I do not feel that we need to take all the measures at the same time, but we need to take the right action at the right time. This measure is not currently the most needed because the government has provided money, and it is money that is needed to run a business.
i-dae4e3061563066c-478	Madam President, I would like The fact that the number of first balance sheets has not increased may be due to the fact that there are those who have not actually drawn up a balance sheet. They will then be liable for personal payment if they are negligent. That's what it's supposed to be. But if you do what is prescribed in the law but then don't get any more time to handle the company and draw up a second balance sheet where it appears that the company is in balance again, it's not an argument for not giving a time extension. You have done your concept; you have established the first balance sheet. The government should give the entrepreneur a little longer. Then there was the question of guarantees to banks for loans to small businesses. Ask the banks how much they are used for small businesses. I think that many small businesses get the same answer from the bank that I got when I went there and asked about my company, namely that it is so complicated, that it is better to give a higher check bill. It's a lot easier. Look at the number of small companies that have received higher cheques instead of receiving the guarantee that the banks have received. I'm sure it was a mistake. Unfortunately, the effort is made in such a way that small businesses cannot use it. But it is really a completely different discussion. This is well-lawed, but unfortunately it doesn't work. I am concerned that we are putting companies out of business, companies that could actually be viable in three, four, five or six years. That's why I want an extension. It's not so the bad guys can shoe themselves. I think there are quite a few who give up. If you have a company that conkar you do not start another, because you have a weight with you purely financially. This means that we are losing that entrepreneur for quite a long time to come. I appeal to you to look at this again, because I think it is a way forward in order to get more entrepreneurs to venture and drive.
i-dae4e3061563066c-483	Madam President, I would like I thank Larry Söder for his commitment to this issue. I think it is as he says – of course we should try to do what we can to help the companies that are in trouble. For example, conversion aid is a clear effort to help businesses overcome this. As I said, this with the banks is another discussion. But there the problem lies more with the banking sector and their assessments on the matter than with the state. Then one can discuss whether one should bypass the commercial banks and not use their credit rating mechanisms. But then we are in a very deep debate on fiscal policy, which we will have to leave behind right now. I feel this way: if we had so far seen a significant increase in first-checking balances and a significant increase in bankruptcies, I would have shared Larry Söder's willingness to make changes in corporate law. But now that we do not see this, I do not think that we should open the floodgates too much for the criminals. The balance for me and the government is that the risks at the moment are considerably greater than the opportunities. Nor do I share the view that bankruptcy at all times means that companies cannot continue to operate. Firstly, in this House we have reduced the stake, the share capital. It's not that debt needs to be huge to go bankrupt. Secondly, I have often talked to entrepreneurs who see it as an advantage to be able to go bankrupt and have had bankruptcies, because it shows that they are interested in investing. You dare – there is a fighting spirit. Not all bankruptcies are always bad. It is extremely difficult to distinguish between which bankruptcies are right and which are wrong, but we have to agree that there are bankruptcies that are going to happen. There's a risk that through a lot of changes here, we're gonna make sure they don't happen.
i-dae4e3061563066c-488	Madam President, I would like In the spring, Sweden was in an exceptional position. A global pandemic quickly swept the world and made crowds impossible. It also put shareholders and members of economic associations at risk of not being able to exercise their rights in the companies or associations in which they were owners or members. The Government therefore quickly developed temporary amendments to the legislation to enable fully digital meetings and annual meetings, as well as meetings and annual meetings with only postal voting. These were necessary changes. The extensions that we now have to decide on are also necessary, because the pandemic seems to be long lasting. But I mean, Madam President, that the issue is something bigger than simply extending temporary legislation. First of all, the current temporary legislation has received some criticism. This applies, among other things, to the possibility of holding only postal votes. There is a risk of curtailing the rights of members and shareholders, although this has been partly compensated by additional provisions on minority protection. This in itself is a reason for a more thorough investigation into legislation. But there is also a broader perspective on the issue that should not be forgotten, namely that digital voices also have many advantages and can be a way to strengthen ownership or member democracy, while saving time, money and the environment to minimize travel and not have to be seen in large conference rooms. Over the past few months, I have been in contact with representatives of a number of companies and associations that have conducted digital voices, and I have heard their input. I have also been in contact with entrepreneurs who have developed products that in various ways support the implementation of digital annual meetings and meetings. Almost all of the people I've been in contact with find that digital voices, or at least digital participation in voices, are here to stay. However, it is also said that there are certain problems that have not been addressed in the temporary legislation. It is about what I mentioned about postal voting, but it is also about, for example, how to safely identify foreign owners and members who do not have a Swedish bank ID and how to ensure that only competent persons can take part of the negotiations if it is regulated so in statutes. Madam President, I would like The legislation allowed so-called hybrid general meetings even before the temporary amendments. The disadvantage of hybrid meetings is that the company or association must then always be prepared for owners or members to want to show up physically at the meeting. Therefore, there should also be the possibility of fully digital voices. It is important to point out, Madam President, that this is about opportunities and voluntary activity. The companies or associations that want to be seen physically when the situation so permits should of course be allowed to do so. But those who want to continue to be seen digitally should also be given the opportunity to do so. Views of physical voices and annual meetings have turned out to be different. I take the liberty of drawing two anecdotal stories. When I discussed the issue of digital voices last week, I heard about a tenant-owner association in Gothenburg that had tried the digital annual meeting last spring but found that a physical annual meeting was preferable, because you actually also got to meet your neighbors. I have also been told about a housing association in Stockholm that conducted a digital annual meeting and found that it worked perfectly. As one member said: It went much faster, and you didn't have to be social with the neighbors afterwards. One can only imagine what the mood is like in this staircase, Madam President. Joke aside – there are tenant-owner associations that have already written into the statutes that annual meetings should always take the form of hybrid meetings, as it is about holiday homes with members spread throughout the country. The association Aktiespararna even before the pandemic broke out digital voices as a way to enable small shareholders to engage in the companies where they are owners. It is simply a way of strengthening ownership but also the ability to exercise ownership. Digital voices are not science fiction. The legal possibilities have existed for several years in the United States and our neighbour Denmark. Despite all its horrors, the pandemic has also brought some positive changes. Increased digitalisation, including digitisation of annual meetings and general meetings, appears to be one of those changes. That is why it is also necessary to review legislation already now and to make it possible for digital voices to be heard on a permanent basis. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I am in favour of the reservations of the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals.
i-dae4e3061563066c-498	Madam President, I would like The pandemic has meant that we have all had to change in order for society to function at the same time as we keep the spread of infection down. For example, many have had to get used to digital solutions for meetings. Even the committee meetings here in Parliament are now taking place digitally. Even before the pandemic, much had gone into the digital society. We can declare, set off and on the car and legitimise ourselves in various purchases and signing contracts via the mobile phone. We in the Liberals are in favour of the Government now proposing an extension until the end of 2021 of the temporary exemption to facilitate the implementation of general meetings and general meetings. What matters to us here is precisely the word, which makes it easier. We think that we should learn lessons from the pandemic: What has made life easier for many? What can we take into the future and continue to make life easier for businesses and individuals? That is why we also think that this should be permanent. Of course, the changes that have been made and the lessons we have learned from the temporary rules should be incorporated into the permanent solutions. Madam President, I would like We fully understand that the government's work in relation to the pandemic is intense, but there should also be the opportunity to work long-term and make suggestions on how to permanence these ease the spirit rather than risk having to extend the temporary exemption again at the same time next year. I therefore support our joint reservation with Mr M and Mr KD.
i-dae4e3061563066c-501	Madam President, I would like We are still in the midst of a very serious pandemic, and what the development of covid-19 will be like, nobody knows. Therefore, the Government is now proposing an extension of the temporary law allowing exceptions to facilitate the implementation of general meetings of companies and associations. The law aims to facilitate the implementation of voices in such a way as to minimise the risk of spreading the virus causing the disease covid-19. The proposal means that the law that we voted on earlier this year will continue to apply in next year, 2021. We in the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs think that this is a good thing, and that is why we agree with the proposal. The temporary law that we are now going to extend because of the pandemic means, among other things, that company and association meetings can be held completely without physical participation. This can be felt as a natural step in the digital transition that is currently taking place. However, we must not forget that we must ensure that everyone entitled to vote can also vote. We have heard in committee that this has not always been the case over the past year. The rules mean that a meeting can be held either by electronic connection in combination with postal voting or by participating only by postal voting. That, on the other hand, can be felt quite far from the digital world that is currently emerging. I am convinced that we will see a development in the way in which the general meetings of companies and associations are held in the future. It will probably be completely digital, at least sometimes. In substance, I am in favour of this, but it must be done in such a way that all persons entitled to vote are also able to vote. Now, in the midst of an extremely critical situation of the pandemic, however, is not the time to demand that the government prioritise an investigation work in order to perpetrate this legislation.
i-dae4e3061563066c-508	Mr President, I would like to I think it is an advantage to get far in the back of the debate. My colleagues always prefer what the errands are about, so I don't have to pull the whole thing. However, I can agree with what Emma Hult says about the fact that each thing has its time. As I said, we're in the middle of a pandemic. We are extending this legislation to apply throughout 2021, and should we end up in a situation where we see that we need to extend it further – or permanent it – there is plenty of time to do so. What I'm up to in this is the writing. It is stated in the announcement that the investigation should be carried out promptly. But it's not the time to start investigating this particular thing in the middle of a pandemic, because it's not that urgent. On the other hand, there is something else that is urgent, and it is the measures that we put in place for the housing associations – among other things, protection against such things as the cutting-off of the board meetings of the housing associations or the fact that not everyone can participate. We introduced minority protection as late as the last time we had a debate here, and it will have an effect. Now you can go to the Swedish Companies Registration Office and get help with the review of the decisions. I think that's important. Of course, there should be protection for the housing associations and those who live there, so the question of postal voting in those contexts must be clarified. But overall, the government's assessment is that there are not so serious deficiencies that it cannot prolong this next year.
i-W2GyxEhBTDrcr9tVgFzo1u	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support the proposal to extend the temporary measures to facilitate the implementation of general meetings of companies and associations. In the current circumstances, these are good measures to make it easier for all associations and companies. We definitely support them as temporary measures. However, before permanentising these rules, it is important to evaluate how this has worked and any problems that have arisen. Here we believe that the government should not be hasty, but make a thorough assessment when the pandemic rings off, hopefully shortly. We have chosen not to support the follow-up motion, as the proposals and their consequences must first be carefully examined. Today there seem to be problems in associations that may persist because the Annual General Meeting has limited opportunities to hold the Board to account. To hold someone accountable through a digital meeting, which may also be supplemented by postal votes from members without greater transparency, is of course considerably more difficult than to do so at a normal physical meeting where everyone can take part in what is said on equal terms. The follow-up motion wants to investigate how postal voting should be carried out in order to reach a permanent solution. I have doubts as to whether postal voting should be used at all unless there are exceptional reasons, as one might say they are doing at the moment. Overall, I think that digital voices need to be investigated and evaluated so that when we make a decision we do so based on well-founded facts. We also see a need to possibly extend the regulatory framework with the possibility for members and shareholders to demand a physical meeting with the support of a minority. Therefore, we choose not to commit ourselves to a decision that the law should be permanent today.
i-dae4e3061563066c-518	Mr President, I would like to We now see that the spread of infection in Sweden is taking off again. It is a trying time, this year, for many in Sweden and in the world. It is trying in a purely human way through the anxiety experienced by many and the grief experienced by many whose loved ones are affected as a result of the pandemic in which we find ourselves. This applies to the employees in the care, who are working hard. This applies to entrepreneurs who may now see their life's work go to nothing. We will probably have to live with the effects of this pandemic for a long time to come. In this situation, Mr President, we are debating today a budget that does not take up the second wave that Sweden is currently in. It is a budget that focuses on the relaunch of the economy instead of the necessary crisis measures that Sweden so badly needs to save jobs and businesses here and now. Sweden faced a wide range of social problems even before the Corona crisis, and these problems persist after the crisis. This is about the need to push back crime, which is spreading in Sweden. It is not least about breaking unemployment. But we also see a long-term and widespread housing shortage, which has passed into a housing crisis. This crisis affects large groups in our society, such as young and newcomers – groups who find it difficult to enter the housing market for the first time. It affects companies and our growth. It is difficult to recruit skills, because skills have nowhere to live. It affects people who, for various reasons, need flexible accommodation in order to be able to get through different phases of life. You may not be able to afford to buy your accommodation – then we need to have a functioning rental market that meets this. Nearly 80 per cent of Sweden's municipalities report a housing shortage in their municipality. On the moderate side, therefore, we believe that it is now high time to change the policy that we have seen for too long in Sweden and which clearly, demonstrably, has not worked. We need a policy for more housing in Sweden. Our construction costs are the highest in Europe. It must be easier and cheaper to build in Sweden. We need to simplify all the many complicated regulations that have come into being in all the good sense but which together, stacked on top of each other, constitute an insurmountable obstacle to building more housing and flexible housing that people can afford. We see that the state processes are far too long. It's not legal when, as a private person, I don't know how long a particular permit process should take. I was looking at Lantmäteriet, to name just one example. For real estate regulation, an average of 13 months is expected. For the cleavage of property, the processing period is 18 months. Is this reasonable? I mean, it's not. I believe that we have a responsibility to simplify the regulations so that it becomes transparent and clear what applies, and to ensure that we strengthen ownership rights in Sweden so that it becomes clear what I can expect when I apply for a permit, for example. On the moderate side, we mean that we must introduce authorisation guarantees, or service guarantees. The state must keep its promises. A specific time limit should be set in advance for the duration of a permit process. If the authority does not keep its promises, the applicant shall automatically be granted approval, or the application fee shall be removed. It doesn't make sense for it to take that long. We also see that we need to increase access to buildable land. We have a lot of land in Sweden. Sweden is a fantastic country and a vast country. Most of our country is not built. We see that we need to reform beach protection. We want to abolish the general beach protection in Sweden and let municipalities point out areas where they want beach protection to continue to apply. Another example is nature reserves. From a moderate point of view, we would like to limit nature reserves in time. I am a great and dear nature friend and love to be out in nature, and I am passionate about this. It is a question of ensuring that we stick to and take care of the areas that are worthy of protection that we have. We believe that a deadline simply puts pressure on us to follow up and ensure that we keep to these areas. A few words about what the government wants to do. It seems that the policy revolves around subsidies. Instead of solving the underlying real problems, one wants to throw money at them and believes that they will thus solve themselves by themselves. We know that this is clearly not the case. More than SEK 4 billion is being spent on subsidies. They are inefficient and costly and go to projects that in most cases would have been implemented anyway. So there's money in the lake, more or less. What is the equivalent of this? That's a lot of money. This corresponds to almost 8 000 police officers, 27 000 preschool places or 127 000 births, just to give you some examples and a sense of what this money means and what we could do to face Sweden's problems. For me and the Moderates, the choice is simple. We want effective policy solutions that address the underlying problem. It is about simplification, about shorter processing times and about giving everyone more power to decide over their own life and property. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-dae4e3061563066c-532	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to Josefin Malmqvist's speech, you hear some very important things that I want some clarification about. Josefin says that it is difficult to recruit skills, because competence has nowhere to live. She says that we have the biggest building cost in Europe and that we have to build housing that people can afford. When I read the Moderates' budget, it seems that housing policy has no place there. There are no proposals whatsoever to meet the housing shortage and the challenges that Josefin has painted. In a situation where housing is very scarce and often expensive, the Moderates choose to reduce in 2021 and 2022 to completely abolish investment support for newly produced and reasonably priced rental apartments. They continue to repeat that the aid does not make any difference. I don't really understand how you can think that way. It is always possible to change support and make it better. But what do you think when you want to phase it out completely? What steps do you intend to take to increase the construction of rental apartments that people can afford, as Mr Josefin mentioned? Should the market solve the problem? Do the Moderates think that the market can build away the housing shortage? From the Left side, we do not think so. We have seen in the last 30 years what the market can do, and the housing shortage is increasing all the time. What are the Moderates going to do? Why is housing policy not an important part of moderate politics? ( President-in-Office of the Council) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we tend to address each other with both first and last names in this House. )
i-dae4e3061563066c-538	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Momodou Malcolm Jallow, for the question! Precisely because the housing issue is so important and because we see that the policy that has been pursued in Sweden, in all honesty for decades, does not work, we believe that we can not only spend more money on the problem but must solve the underlying problem. What is the reason why our construction costs in Sweden are among the highest? What can we do about it? When you drill in the numbers it is quite clear. The answer is that we have too many and too complicated regulations and far too long processing processes, as the example I mentioned with 18 months to split a property and thus be able to build more. This is not reasonable, and there is no reason why it should have to take so long. We believe that it is about taking responsibility and identifying what has not worked and seeing how we change it instead of rolling taxpayers' money on inefficient subsidies that do not work. This is not an effective housing policy, and it is not taking responsibility for taxpayers' money.
i-dae4e3061563066c-541	Mr President, I would like to I will not defend the government, but I think like this: The Moderates call the government's budget a return to an inefficient subsidy policy but have no problem with subsidizing their own housing. I do not understand why people are so opposed to subsidising rental apartments, but when it comes to subsidising property owned for wealthy people, that is no problem. There's a double standard in it. I would like Mr Malmqvist to explain this. We know that subsidies are very important because the market cannot solve everything. How do the Moderates think that the change in beach protection will help the people who are the furthest from the housing market today? How will it lower the thresholds into the housing market? Do you think that living in different forms of tenure should have the same tax conditions, or should the owned dwelling continue to benefit, and if so, why?
i-dae4e3061563066c-544	Mr President, I would like to From the Moderates' side we say that we need more housing in Sweden. We need to facilitate housing in general, and we need to ensure that there is a mix of different forms of tenure for different phases of life, different preferences and different wallets and depending on the conditions. Therefore, we should not say that one should only build a certain type of housing. For us, it is important that there is diversity, so that the individual can choose. We believe that the tax system is an important tool for this, and we see that since the property ownership is something that becomes more cost-effective for the individual in the long term, it is also reasonable for us to create incentives through the tax system for the owner-occupied housing as well. Strandskydd is about enabling more housing. It's a tool among many. However, it is very clear that the Left Party itself has no policy for more housing in Sweden.
i-dae4e3061563066c-547	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Malmqvist, for an engaging speech in this debate! However, I note that there were very few political proposals in our area of expenditure that were presented. But Josefin Malmqvist will now have the opportunity to develop it a little. Josefin Malmqvist began by saying that there are proposals from the government regarding crisis management in the situation we are in – it is therefore a question of Category 18. I wonder, then, what proposals do the Moderates have with regard to crisis measures and crisis management to help us in this part of the budget?
i-dae4e3061563066c-549	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Emma Hult, for the question! I began by describing the government's budget in general. Today we are discussing part of this budget. It is a budget that focuses on the re-launch of Sweden in a situation where we are in the midst of a burning crisis. Therefore, we see from the moderate side that the most important thing now is that we continue to have muscles to save Swedish jobs and companies. That is the most important thing right now. As we move on to the re-launch of Sweden and the Swedish economy, we believe that housing policy will be extremely important. Here we believe that the most important parts are about creating the conditions. It is about predictability when it comes to which regulations apply, which processing times apply and to make it easier for more people to take the step and dare to invest in more housing in Sweden. We believe that this will be absolutely central to the re-launch of Sweden.
i-dae4e3061563066c-551	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Malmqvist, for your answer. So I can see that there are no proposals from the Moderates on crisis measures in the area of expenditure that we are debating here today. It was a long series of fine proposals, but they belong to the debate on housing policy, and today we are here to debate the budget. I can therefore say that we are on the same footing, and I therefore think that the accusation was a little too much. Josefin also chooses to mention that investment aid has no effect and that the homes that have been built would still have been built. I'm afraid to take a chance. In the crisis we are now in – a housing crisis with housing shortages in Sweden – every home is needed. Aid has been granted for 38 000 new homes, 18 200 of which have already been built. How can Josefin Malmqvist guarantee that they would have been built anyway? And if they had, in any case, been built, they would not have had the level of rent guaranteed by the investment aid, so that all people can afford to ask for it.
i-dae4e3061563066c-554	Mr President, I would like to It is obvious that the construction subsidies are aid that the industry does not demand. Construction companies are not asking for this. They're planning to build anyway. What the industry is asking for is predictable, long-term rules of play. I am therefore very concerned about why the Green Party does not want to face up to and identify the problems in the regulatory framework that we see. Why can we not join forces and simplify the long and complicated lists of rules that we have in Sweden, which is what the industry and construction companies themselves identify as what prevents the growth of more housing in Sweden?
i-dae4e3061563066c-556	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to Josefin Malmqvist's speech, it is clear that the Moderates are in opposition. They are in opposition to the government but also in some kind of opposition to reality. When we listen to Josefin Malmqvist we hear that there are long processing times and complicated rules and that the government does nothing. And nothing is being built, and it is the government's fault. But if you scratch the surface a little, you can see that during this term of office and the previous term of office, the government – now together with the parties in the January agreement – has implemented a number of regulatory simplifications. The criticism presented by Josefin Malmqvist is largely about the present Planning and Construction Act, and that law was established under a bourgeois government. Perhaps these major changes should already have been made? I regard this with the processing times at Lantmäteriet as extremely worrying. We see that processing times are now falling in a number of areas. It's great that the Moderates have an ambition to do more, but then you might add a little more than 20 million more to Lantmäteriet to solve the challenges. I don't think it changes reality in any way. Finally, Josefin Malmqvist says that nothing is being built. Then you should be aware that between 2015 and 2018 almost 250,000 homes were started. During the eight years of bourgeois rule fewer homes were started. For four years, therefore, more has been built than it was built during eight years of bourgeois rule. The government does things. What do the Moderates want to do?
i-dae4e3061563066c-561	Mr President, I would like to I think that this is rather important. Already in the 1966 election movement, the then Social Democratic Prime Minister Tage Erlander was asked what to say to a young couple in Stockholm who wanted to stay. The current housing queue in Stockholm was ten years old. The only thing that has happened since then – since 1966! – is that the queues have become longer and longer. An up-to-date summary from the Swedish Parliament's investigation service shows that in our four largest cities, the housing queue is now longer than 1.1 million people. More than 1.1 million people are in housing queues only in Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö and Uppsala. Then Johan Löfstrand stands as a social democrat here and beats his chest and says that the government does a lot of things. I wonder what Johan Löfstrand wants to say to all these people who are waiting to get a place to live, and many of them have been in line for decades. I am calling for real government policies that actually make a real difference. We have been testing social democratic housing policy for decades in Sweden. There are more and more long and complicated rules that obviously do not facilitate housing construction in Sweden. I would therefore like to ask Johan Löfstrand what his policy is for more housing in Sweden. I do not see anything in this that would actually solve the problem. Subsidising housing construction has not worked, so what do you have that would actually work? When it comes to Lantmäteriet Johan Löfstrand makes fun over 20 million. Yes, we spend 20 million dollars more than the government does. I think that's better than $20 million less to shorten the processing times. Therefore, I would like to ask: what does Johan Löfstrand want to do to shorten the length of proceedings?
i-dae4e3061563066c-567	Mr President, I would like to In the case of L antmäteriet, I think that the development of processing times now taking place at Lantmäteriet should be studied. The changes made at Lantmäteriet – mainly structural changes – mean that queues in a number of processing areas are now decreasing. This has been done through streamlining and structuring of an extremely good authority management. We can go back to the questions raised by Josefin Malmqvist. Josefin Malmqvist blames us Social Democrats for the hassle. It could be. But the latest planning and construction law, where the greatest problems are, was passed in a bourgeois era about ten years ago. We can then look further at the big sign window Stockholm City. Stockholm City has now said that it should go from building 2,600 apartments to building 600 apartments. Why do you do that?
i-dae4e3061563066c-570	Mr President, I would like to It is quite clear that there are no political answers here that would actually solve the underlying problem in Sweden. Johan Löfstrand refers to when the Planning and Construction Act came into being. That is a somewhat narrow approach. Both me and Johan Löfstrand are well aware that the problem is much wider than that. It is about the application of different regulations, and it is recommendations that are stacked on each other in a single complicated mischmasch that creates the uncertainty that currently prevails in the Swedish housing market. We, on the moderate side, want to find out about this. We want to simplify and clarify: what is the issue? What is so important that there should be national rules? What's not? Those points should be removed. Instead, focus should be on what actually makes a difference. This would create transparency and clarity towards those who want to develop more housing in Sweden. We are asking for this, and I would be the first to be very happy if the Social Democrats were to join this line suddenly.
i-dae4e3061563066c-572	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we are now debating the Committee on Civil Liberties's budget after half the term of office has almost ended. What we can see is that we see a reformist government that has an interest in managing the housing policy part rather than developing it. It is, of course, serious in the situation we are in. The Government continues to conduct a migration policy that increases the urgent need for housing in Sweden. It is a migration policy that gives priority to migrants in the housing queue. This is because of the law of residence that the government has been involved in pushing forward and implementing and that the municipalities are forced to react to. At the same time, proposals for market rents are being made. That is the government's proposal in the situation we are in. Together with the Centers and Liberals, you will find more and more areas to collaborate around. A budget cooperation has been established that has gone far in Sweden's parliament today. At the same time, I note, Mr President, that the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats share a common position on a number of important issues. This applies both to budget-related issues and to other legislative issues in this Assembly. I am pleased to see, for example, that the Christian Democrats are presenting a reform for safer residential areas in Sweden in their budget. They also propose start-up loans for young people to be able to enter the housing market and housing savings for young people in order to be able to own their first home in the future. More building permits-free measures are other things that can be read about in, for example, the Christian Democrats' proposals. The issue of a review of the amortisation requirement is also an issue that we share with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, as well as the issue of developing owner-occupied apartments and rental purchase models. Abolition of inefficient energy efficiency efforts and investment support are other issues. Then I have just mentioned some of the many issues we share with the Christian Democrats and the Moderates. In the debate today, I would like to highlight three important areas in order to lower the thresholds for the housing market. First of all, this is the amortisation requirement. Despite the fact that Finansinspektionen has stressed our three largest banks and the results show that there is good financial stability, it continues to argue that we need a strong amortisation. The amortisation requirement means that, as a young person, you should amortise 3% of the loan if you do not have sufficient income. At the same time, the interest rate on the loan can be up to a calculation rate of 7 per cent. Of course, it's a high threshold. It is difficult for young people today to get a mortgage. This, of course, increases the vulnerability of our young people, who are placed outside the housing market for owned dwellings and are forced into secondary contracts with high rents. You may have to turn down jobs and studies as a consequence of this. The figures for 2012 can be compared to the figures for 2018. When it comes to young people's opportunities to buy a dwelling in Stockholm, 33 per cent fewer people could take out a loan in 2018 to buy a dwelling. In the country there were 15 per cent fewer – according to Finansinspektionen's own figures. It is clear that the amortisation requirement is one of the reasons why young people are unable to enter the housing market today. The second thing I would like to highlight is mortgages and housing savings as two important reforms for young people to enter the housing market. This is about housing saving, which means creating a culture of saving, but where the state is also involved in encouraging savings for a future home. We also propose a mortgage for young people, where young people have the opportunity to get help with their own efforts when buying a home. It should be structured in a similar way to CSN's loans. It is a very good reform that would allow more young people to actually take their first loan. The 2019 Tenant Association survey shows that 27 per cent of those between the ages of 20 and 27 live at home. In 1997, 15 per cent lived at home in the same age group. This shows a great need to actually put forward a series of proposals for young people to enter the housing market. A third area I would like to highlight is the rental model. A future model could mean paying part of the dwelling that will be owned in the future via the rent. It is a model that needs to be developed. The system that exists today is not the model that the Swedish democrats envisage. We need to develop the rental model. This would be another proposal to lower the thresholds for many people to the housing market for owned dwellings. There is a report that shows that a nurse in Stockholm, with an average salary of SEK 37 300 and a saving of 300 000, would only be able to buy 5 percent of the properties for sale in the Stockholm region. With a rental purchase model that lowers the thresholds to the housing market for owned dwellings, the corresponding person could buy 40 per cent of newly produced dwellings. These are proposals in three areas. It is extremely important to push this forward. It is about an opportunity for more people to own their first home but also to overcome the problems we see today with a pressing need for more housing. With those words, Mr President, I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 1.
i-dae4e3061563066c-590	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating urban planning, housing supply and construction. It is a very important debate in these coronatides. When people have lost their jobs and have less income because they have lost their sources of income and find it difficult to pay the rent, it is important to discuss and debate the housing issue. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party wants an equal, sustainable and fair society. We are committed to reducing the gaps and to strengthening general welfare. Our efforts are central to a more equal society. Much of the money we spend goes to welfare in order to create a well-being that includes everyone. The Left Party's plan for an equal society and a green transition thus puts the most economically vulnerable, the welfare, the environment and the climate in focus. Since the Left Party's proposal for appropriations in the budget area is above the framework laid down by the Government and Parliament, we cannot put forward a reservation of our own. Instead, we have a specific opinion. For the Left Party, housing is a social right and nothing else. Housing policy should be a fundamental part of general welfare policy. Today, housing policy is neither active nor comprehensive enough. Today, housing policy is not a priority. The State has come back in favour of the market. The housing shortage must be met with increased political responsibility in the form of a policy with higher ambitions than we see today. The Left Party is seeking a cohesive housing market in which everyone, regardless of income and background, is guaranteed good housing with good standards at reasonable costs that people can afford. The issue of building up the housing shortage with a focus on rentals should be given more priority than ever. This requires state intervention in the form of financial support for construction. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party wants to re-establish general housing policy, where housing is an integral part of our welfare society. We want to recreate a state social, general housing policy where the public takes responsibility for everyone having a place to live. We also want to equalise the financial differences between the tenancy forms owned and rented housing. Housing has a fundamental role to play in welfare. We therefore believe that the commitment and responsibility of the state and municipalities must be increased, as is also evident in our budget for this area of expenditure. There is a long-standing need for investment in community planning, housing supply and housing construction. More housing needs to be built. The existing multi-dwelling stock needs to be renovated and adapted to climate change. Society needs to be more accessible for everyone to feel included. Mr President, I would like to In order to stimulate the economy and make the necessary efforts, large-scale government investment is needed. I got a question from the Moderates about what the Left Party proposal looks like. Now you have the opportunity to hear what a solid housing policy means. We have many proposals, and I will not be able to go through them all, but just read in our budget option. In brief, the left-wing budget option for Category 18 is as follows. We propose that the allocation to Boverket be increased by 1.5 billion. The increase in the grant will be used to finance two new grants to be administered by Boverket: a support of SEK 1 billion for the accessibility of society and a support of 500 million for playgrounds, park games and spontaneous sports. Large parts of the Swedish multi-detached housing stock are in need of renovation and energy efficiency. For 140 000 apartments, the need for renovation is acute. Therefore, the Government's proposal to provide funding for a new support for energy efficiency and renovation of multi-residential buildings is welcomed. However, we believe that the aid should be increased, because there is such a wide-ranging and urgent need for renovation and energy efficiency. The Left Party therefore proposes an increase of SEK 1 billion in funding. The new support should be designed taking into account the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations in their report. Mr President, I would like to We see this initiative as an opportunity for crisis management but also for re-launching the economy and society after the Corona crisis. Through the jobs that support helps create, we can restart the economy. Mr President, I would like to There is a large housing shortage in municipalities, and the lack of rental rights with reasonable rents is particularly high. According to Boverket, 640 000 new dwellings need to be built over ten years, 2018 – 2027. According to the Left Party, at least half of these should be rentals with reasonable rents. For these homes to be built, the state needs to take greater responsibility for funding. During the previous term of office, the Government and the Left Party introduced investment aid for the organisation of rental housing and also housing for students. The aid has been granted to more than 35 800 new dwellings. The Left Party welcomes the fact that the government provides funds for investment support but also notes that it is not enough. In order to meet the current economic downturn, maintain a high rate of construction and reduce the housing shortage, the Left Party proposes an increase in investment support for the organisation of rental housing and housing for students by SEK 2 billion. Investment support for the organisation of rental housing is a step in the right direction, but further action by the State is needed to build a sufficient number of rental apartments with reasonable rents. The State should take over part of the risk of financing by offering top-notch loans. A top low-interest loan replacing most of the equity is a new proposal from the Left Party. A government loan of 25 % of the investment means that the investor must contribute 5 %. As is currently the case, the remaining 70% will be financed by the banking sector. Such a financing solution would also allow more players to enter the housing market, which would strengthen competition in the construction sector. Therefore, the Left Party proposes the creation of a new grant called State top loans for the construction of rental apartments. Overall, the Left Party allocates over SEK 5 billion more than the Government to Category 18. Finally, the current housing policy objective, which should guide the government's policy in this area, was adopted during the previous bourgeois government in 2011. A new housing policy objective is needed, reflecting the societal needs and challenges of housing construction. We protect the right to housing as a fundamental human right. This right can never be guaranteed by the market. The fact that the state has come back in favour of the market is unacceptable to the Left Party. The role of the state in housing policy must be significantly strengthened. The Left Party wants a strong common ground. We are opposed to all sales of public housing, both sales to private rentals and conversions from rentals to tenant-owners. The biggest and most important struggle of the Left Party right now is the fight against the sneaking-in of market rents that the current government is engaged in. I can say this: the promise to raise a motion of censure is established if anyone doubts or wonders. We therefore propose that the Government return to the Riksdag with proposals for a new housing policy objective in Category 18, with the following wording: The housing and housing environment should be based on people's needs, contribute to equal conditions and, in particular, promote good growth for children and young people. In planning, construction and management, ecological, economic and social sustainable development must be the basis for the activities. ..................................................... I call for approval of the Left Party's reservation 2.
i-dae4e3061563066c-612	Mr President, I would like to In the area of urban planning and housing supply, the government parties in their budget have taken on a goal. Part of this objective is to provide all people in all parts of the country with a social environment that promotes long-term good management of natural resources and energy, as well as facilitating housing and economic development. What are the measures to be taken to achieve this overall objective by the government parties with the Centre Party and the Liberals in tow? The major items are investment aid for rental apartments, energy efficiency and renovation of residential blocks of flats with rental rights and renovation of outdoor environments in these areas. None of these appropriations that I see meet the objective that I just read out. They only hit fragmented this target. One can easily believe that the goal is there without it having to be measured or seen at the next financial statements – that it is only there for show, as I claim. It's not measurable. No measures are measured against this. This means that only fine words, fine words, but I can also support them. As I see it, there is no grant or beginning to look at the whole of the goal that you actually say you want to work from. If one had taken a holistic approach, one would have looked at where people get an economic development in their housing. How do you create a socially good living environment? How do people want to live? How do people want to shape their home for themselves and their family? What is a safe home? Seven out of ten want to live in their own property. There are numerous studies showing this. It is also socially most safe to live in your own owned dwelling. It is historically demonstrated that owning a dwelling is also the most economically advantageous form. Owning and being able to decide over one's home is far superior in terms of social and economic security over the person's life cycle. Then the government's efforts should promote their own housing, make it easier for young people to enter the ownership market and ensure that we build more small houses in total in the country. That should be a reasonable assumption on the basis of the objectives. Over the past ten years, the construction of blocks of flats has increased by 127 per cent, which is much needed and good. But the construction of small houses has increased by only 2 per cent during the same period. I am not saying that the construction of multi-residential buildings should be reduced. But surely there must be some kind of balance in terms of the measures to create housing in the various forms? We Christian Democrats have developed an incentive contribution in our budget to make it easier for municipalities to deliver more ready-made plans, thus increasing housing construction in Sweden. Since the vast majority of municipalities give priority to multi-dwelling buildings in their planning, a small-scale planning department in the municipalities is hampering the construction of small-scale houses. It is reasonable to assume, then, that a planning stimulus would lead to the completion of more house plans and could be launched. We have also tried to solve the government's problems on the basis of a socially sound living environment. There we set aside a great deal for security-promoting measures, in which municipalities, civil society, police and those who feel urged together can bring out the unsafe places and build them away or change them into safer places. It can be about tunnels, it can be about more light and it can also be about taking the big deal and planning and converting an area from just being a rental dwelling area to becoming a mixed housing with different lease forms. With ownership comes also social responsibility. And with social responsibility, there will be safer areas. If you can also make a housing trip in your own area, the security-building measures in the area you are used to will facilitate. If you are also serious about housing, you should in some way address the fact that the queues of a rental apartment allow you to become a pensioner before you get a rental apartment. With Corona in focus, even more people have discovered that their own property in the form of a small house has even more advantages, as prices are now skyrocketing and young people and people with a regular income are increasingly coming from the possibility of buying their own owned accommodation. This problem does not address the government at all. Prior to planning incentives for municipalities, review the land lease system, review the credit restrictions, introduce housing and start-up loans, give county boards a greater opportunity to point out ex ante buildable areas and make sure that municipal authorities are not all-encompassing when building a larger area with small houses. But above all, set a target for housing construction in Sweden, so that we have something to measure against when it comes to both the goal and the efforts in the form of funds and other things. Set the target for a whole but also for rentals, tenant-owners and small-scale building so that efforts can be addressed to the different forms. It's much easier to control if you know where you want to go. This is rule number one in every municipality in Sweden. Unfortunately, however, in the Swedish Parliament, it shines with its absence.
i-dae4e3061563066c-623	Mr President, I would like to I thank Larry Söder for his speech. I note that the Christian Democrats – as Larry Söder described – want to introduce a planning stimulus for the municipalities. This was something the government had not too many years ago. The municipal bonus was then called for some of the measures that Larry Söder is now proposing to be taken. The Christian Democrats then criticized the planning stimulation measure which the government considered necessary and which has also made it possible for virtually all the municipalities in the country to have an updated master plan and plan for housing construction. What's the difference now? Is it only for small houses? Shouldn't we have a planning stimulus that makes the municipalities plan for all types of housing, which Larry Söder also mentions a little later in his speech?
i-dae4e3061563066c-626	Mr President, I would like to Emma Hult is absolutely right. We do not believe that we can say that we should only build this type of accommodation, but all types of accommodation need to be planned more in Sweden's municipalities. If you ask Sweden's municipalities if they have good foresight when it comes to planning housing, the vast majority of municipalities say yes. But if you dig a little into it, you can see that unfortunately it doesn't look like it. If a plan does not get through the system, it will be delayed, and that means that they are building a smaller number of homes than they had planned. In some way, we want to address that here. If the municipalities have the opportunity to receive incentives from the state, they can thus increase their planning department with a few people in order to streamline the planning instrument in the municipality. Thus, they have more plans that they can handle. We are not saying that this should apply to multi-detached buildings or to detached houses. However, we note that the plans that are prioritised when municipalities have to give priority to the plans to be implemented are the small-scale plans. Larger areas are being built, mostly with multi-dwelling buildings, rental apartments and flats. And areas for small houses don't even come to the planning stage. That is why we think this is a good idea. What has been said before, in fact, I am afraid to answer. But this is an idea that we have put forward. In fact, we believe that it would be good for Sweden's municipalities to get help and support from the Swedish parliament.
i-dae4e3061563066c-630	Mr President, I would like to I thank Larry Söder for his answer. It is nice if the Christian Democrats have changed their minds on this issue. On the part of the government, we will have to consider whether we may have support for such a measure at some point in the future. We had, as I said, a municipal bonus that basically aimed at what Larry Söder and the Christian Democrats are now proposing. We will not support the Christian Democrats in this regard, because this support has already existed and has started the planning of the municipalities. But I am pleased that the Christian Democrats are now highlighting this problem, because they clearly dismissed it when we chose to highlight it. Let me ask you a question about the budget line you have on security-building measures in the physical environment. There Larry Söder chooses to mention that mixed tenure forms are needed. Larry Söder said in a line that it can't be controlled, and that's right. How does Larry Söder want to achieve mixed tenure forms, also as a security-building measure, in the areas? Do they possibly want to regulate this in a detailed plan?
i-dae4e3061563066c-632	Mr President, I would like to Emma Hult is absolutely right. I do not believe that we in Parliament should govern this. I believe that the municipalities themselves can in the best way handle the form of leasing that they should have in the different areas. I'm gonna get back to the planning stimuli. It is a strange attitude from the government parties to say: we think like the Christian Democrats, and we have said this before. But now that you are presenting this, we have to vote against it. It doesn't work that way. If you think a proposal is good, you vote for it. Otherwise, it will be very strange. If the government parties put forward a proposal regarding municipal planning incentives, the Christian Democrats will vote for it. We believe that this is an important measure, not only for us to build more small houses but for us to build more housing in Sweden. In fact, this is the problem itself, that is, that we build too little housing and not too much. But we also believe that small houses are what is needed right now.
i-dae4e3061563066c-636	Mr President, I would like to In the world of Christian Democrats – which feels very far from the reality many live in – it's mostly about safe, beautiful, picturesque and cozy villas and townhouses. They shall either receive different aid, state subsidies and grants, or shall be facilitated by other means. Although there seems to be little will on the part of the KD on the housing issue, as I understand it, the only measure is in principle to lower the thresholds to the property. But you have to make the thresholds so low that you donate the villas and terraced houses to allow many to cross those thresholds. Not everyone can afford it. You have now changed the municipal bonus and call it a planning stimulus for the municipalities, Larry Söder. The planning stimulus is SEK 100 million and will be used to increase planned and buildable land so that more townhouses and villas – I assume – can be built. I just wonder how, according to the KD, we should finance renovation, energy efficiency and improvement of the outdoor environment in terms of the apartment buildings of millions of programmes. Should tenants pay for the entire costs themselves, via rent increases? Or are they, like people who own their own home, to receive some form of support? Why are we opposed to subsidies and subsidies that should go to tenants and the rental stock, while we are very much in favour of support that goes to small houses, townhouses, villas and well-to-do people? Why do you have that double standard? Why do we want to remove a support system and a subsidy that has actually helped to build thousands of apartment buildings?
i-dae4e3061563066c-639	Mr President, I would like to Momodou Malcolm Jallow has an opinion that I do not support. That the investment support has given more rental rights in Sweden I do not agree with. It hasn't given you a new place to live. Yes, rental apartments have been built, but they have been built because of the removal of another part, namely, residential apartments and small houses that could have been built instead. I believe that this subsidy has drained the state of money, which has gone straight into the property owners' pockets. Then it is that we Christian Democrats are not against ensuring that rental areas are good; we have in our draft budget almost 1 billion going to try to stimulate better housing in those areas and remove unsafe areas. However, I note that Momodou Jallow stressed that he wanted to reduce the gap. The main gap in housing is between those who own a dwelling and those who do not own a dwelling, and this can be solved in two different ways. Either you make sure that more people can own their home, which I think is the best solution. It is about lowering the thresholds so that ordinary people – and young people – can create a future in their own homes. Then they can decide for themselves over their own accommodation. Momodou Malcolm Jallow, however, chooses the other way, namely that no one should own their dwelling. Everything will be owned by the state! All subsidies shall be granted to rental and multi-residential buildings. Is there no rhyme and reason in the Left Party's argumentation? Should there not be the possibility of making a housing trip and owning one's own housing, including for young people and those with middle income? Are rentals the sole rule of the Left Party's reality?
i-dae4e3061563066c-643	Mr President, I would like to The central government's cost for the rot bi move was nearly SEK 10 billion – SEK 10 billion! But the Christian Democrats do not want support to go to rental apartments. Is that sense and balance? Is that how to define what Christian Democrats call balance? Is that a way to create equality? I don't think so. Every time you have abolished housing subsidies from the bourgeois side, Larry Söder, the production of rental apartments has fallen sharply. Why should it be different this time? Why would it be? Why do you think it's okay with these huge renovation grants to the owned housing – to people who are statistically among those who are well-off in society – but not that it's okay to support the renovation of rental apartments? In this case, it is not a question of replacing functional kitchens or other things with something more luxurious, but simply a support that allows people to stay at all and have somewhere to call at home. Why?
i-dae4e3061563066c-645	Mr President, I would like to Momodou Malcolm Jallow answers the question himself: It is not a word about small houses, it is only rentals that apply in the reality of the Left Party. There is a housing market that should work for both residential units, rental apartments and detached homes. I will answer the root-and-run question raised by Mr Jallow. There are studies that show that it was actually a profit for the Treasury, because the parts that were previously carried out black turned white. Thus, taxes were paid, which thus became revenue to the Treasury. I therefore argue that grid and root are a profit for the Swedish people and a profit for those who want welfare in Sweden. I would be very happy if we could raise the root even more, because it would create well-being in Malmö, Stockholm and Gothenburg – for all people.
i-dae4e3061563066c-647	Mr President, I would like to A number of years ago, I sold a right-of-occupancy apartment to move in the newly built house in which we invested our savings. In the right-of-occupancy apartment, a younger couple moved in. It was a great feeling to hand over the keys to them. It was a harsh couple; they had struggled and saved up for the effort, and now they finally had enough income to get a mortgage and buy a home for their family. They were the first in both families to own their own home, and the pride of accepting the keys was enormous. Even though they thought the home was a bit small for the growing family was the first step into the owned market. A couple of years later, they sold the dwelling for a small profit and were able to move to a larger dwelling, which was also closer to work. The couple, in turn, had left a rental apartment for the housing queue – to someone who had queued and could now move in. This is an example of moving chains at their best. Mobility in the housing market is fundamentally healthy, and different stages of life require different housing solutions. Unlike many other parties, the Liberals have no favourite among the housing types. We genuinely believe in freedom of choice and that a functioning market can meet the needs that arise. In a functioning market, both large and small homes are needed, expensive and cheap housing is needed and various forms of leasing are needed. However, we do not have a functioning housing market today. Important steps towards more mobility and a freer market are taken through the January agreement, where we pushed through reforms such as free renting in new production, that the location factor should be more decisive in renting and that the removal tax should be removed. The latter, Mr President, i.e. the interest deferred on capital gains, disappears with this budget. In addition to a functioning housing market, functioning residential areas are needed. Well-functioning residential areas offer housing for the different stages of life. Too many people today need to move from an area they enjoy because the housing supply is too one-sided. This applies to the elderly who want to leave the villa to move to a simpler accommodation, and it applies to the couple who want to divorce but where both can not afford to buy or rent housing in the area where they live. There is also a gender dimension in this. A review by Länsförsäkringar has shown that a woman who differs in Stockholm County on average can afford 40 square if she wants to stay in her area – if she receives any loan at all, that is. It will be very crowded if she also has children. One in three of the same survey states that finding a home is a contributing factor in their remaining in a relationship they would otherwise leave. The lack of alternatives in these residential areas creates lock-in effects. The other side of the coin is that there are areas dominated by, in particular, small rentals, where those who want to own their dwelling or need something larger need to move because of a lack of choice. This phenomenon is particularly evident in large residential areas in suburbs produced in the 1960s and 1970s. The result is reduced stability in the area. That is why we need to work strategically for a larger mix of housing in our residential areas. That is also why the Liberals recently presented a new housing policy in what we call the suburban lift. We also need to remove obstacles that stand in the way of those who today cannot ask for housing. It is about making it easier to enter the owned housing market through housing savings and start-up loans for first-time buyers, and also about developing the rental market with workable legislation for rent purchases, for example. We also need to give the groups with the worst conditions the basic security that a resident is, for example, through a roof-top guarantee and a national homelessness strategy. It is not worthy that a country like Sweden today has 33 000 homeless people. Mr President, I would like to In connection with the budget, it also highlights the extensive work that is now being carried out to reduce regulatory problems in the reviews by PBL, BBR and others. A more modern regulatory framework that is less detailed and more function-oriented is needed to develop innovative solutions that both keep costs down and make housing more attractive and sustainable. A better and more coherent regulatory framework on duty of praise will make it easier for those who want to expand, build or build new ones to understand and comply with the regulations. Through the budget under discussion today, which the Liberals support, and the January agreement we have signed, we are taking a few steps towards a freer housing market where more people can have the opportunity to ask for a home. Of course, more needs to be done, not least on the financing side and preferably in combination with a broad agreement that further liberalises the housing market. Finally, Mr President, this area of expenditure also includes consumer policy. Liberals have a reservation on the case which concerns a new target for consumer policy. For time winning in this House, I do not support the reservation, but we in the Liberals want to continue to strengthen people's position in the market and individual people's ability to make informed decisions based on their own priorities. Instead, the current consumer policy objective reduces the policy area to an instrument of environmental and sustainability policy. Environment and sustainability are of course important, but we believe that consumer power and the consumer's position justify that consumers have their own spending area. This should therefore be better reflected in consumer policy.
i-dae4e3061563066c-661	Mr President, I would like to Area of expenditure 18 in the state budget, which we are here to debate today, includes urban planning, housing supply and housing construction, and consumer policy. I will talk about housing policy. We need a socially, economically and ecologically sustainable housing policy. The greatest challenge of our time is climate change. Now my committee colleagues are thinking that she always says that. But it is still the greatest challenge of our time. The construction industry currently accounts for one fifth of Sweden's total emissions, and unfortunately only domestic emissions are included. Today we have the knowledge to build climate smart. We can build both passive houses and plus houses. At the same time, the energy consumption to heat up our existing buildings is very large. That is why I am pleased to note that in this budget the government is choosing to invest money in measures to reduce energy consumption in our existing houses. The support for energy efficiency and renovation of multi-detached buildings and outdoor environments will be an extremely important tool for reducing energy consumption in our existing buildings. The Government states in the bill that the support is directed to property owners for renovation and energy efficiency measures to be taken on multi-residential buildings. Both I and the government assess that major investments will be needed to achieve an improved energy performance. I am therefore pleased both for the sake of the planet and for future generations that we now choose to make these investments in the budget. Mr President, I would like to Where, by what and how we build our houses will have a major impact on our environment for many generations to come. What we are building today will also work well in 100 years' time, and that means that we are planning right from the start. We need a sustainable housing policy that reduces both environmental and climate impacts. In fact, housing is still record high. Last year about 55 500 new homes were built. Although the pace of construction has decreased somewhat this year, which worries me, we can compare with the 28 000 homes per year built on average during the former days of the Alliance. Yet there is a shortage of housing in many parts of our country. In particular, there is a lack of housing available to people with lower incomes. The housing shortage not only affects those who cannot get a home but actually slows down the whole development of society. The housing shortage is reduced by building more housing, increasing mobility in the housing market and making more efficient use of the existing housing stock. It also needs to be easier to rent out part of your dwelling. The financing of new housing needs to be ensured. Together with the Social Democrats in the government, and now also the Centre Party and the Liberals, the Green Party is putting forward a budget for investment aid for climate-smart rentals with reasonable rents. To date, more than 38 000 new homes have been supported, almost half of which have already been completed. This is a support that is very well sought. The Green Party wants to see a favourable housing saving, start-up loan, increased and modernised housing allowance and support for municipalities to contribute to a safer housing market. Unfortunately, all these measures are not included in this budget, but I will continue to fight for them to come in the future. On the other hand, I am pleased to note that the Government's offer for 2021 includes investments in housing policy development, restructuring of municipal housing companies, support to facilitate the provision of housing and more for individuals. In particular, there is support for energy efficiency and renovation, as I mentioned earlier, investment aid for building rental apartments with reasonable rents and housing for students and support for innovative and sustainable construction. Sweden continues to need a green and ambitious housing policy that will build more climate-smart housing for all in society. There is a need for a policy that steers towards a continuously high level of housing construction regardless of the economic situation in Sweden and regardless of where the need is in the country. Mr President, I would like to We need a sustainable housing policy. Finally, I would like to talk about the people. All too often, the debate on housing policy is about the number of homes built or the number of dwellings that are missing and far too little about the people who are actually going to live in the homes or who do not have a home. Today, the City Mission releases its homelessness report for 2020. This year's theme is a new strategy against homelessness. Unfortunately, the homelessness statistics we have are from 2017. These statistics show that there are 33 000 homeless people in Sweden, and we are getting signals that this figure is now higher. It is a political failure for which many governments back in time bear responsibility. I am not here to point out whose fault it is, but I want to see political solutions in the future. Much has been built in recent years, and more housing is being built. Yet there is a lack of housing. The question we have to ask ourselves, Mr President, is: for whom are we building? I can only share the view of the City Mission that a national homelessness strategy is needed, and I hope that we will have one in place in this House during this parliamentary term. I note that the Minister of Social Affairs left such a mission to the National Board of Health and Welfare last week, and I hope that we will see action in this area soon.
i-dae4e3061563066c-679	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with what Emma Hult ended up doing. A homelessness strategy is welcome and we hope it will come as soon as possible. However, I would like to talk about what is not in the budget. Emma Hult mentioned this in her speech: starting loans, housing savings and credit restrictions. In my speech, I reported that the construction of rental apartments has increased by 127%. Small house building has increased by 2 per cent. As a result, we have rising prices, and we do not really know where they go. My question to Emma Hult as an environmentalist is: What are the measures you want to see for the construction of small houses to increase in Sweden? They are needed, and I think it is crucial for us to be able to solve the housing shortage.
i-dae4e3061563066c-682	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Larry Söder, for allowing me to respond as an environmentalist. It would have been hard if I had to answer as something other than what I am. I share Larry Söder's view that we need to build more of all forms of leasing, including small houses. And the proposals that I think we agree on are to strengthen the individual's ability to ask for this type of construction as well. Larry Söder was previously aware that the Christian Democrats wanted to encourage the municipalities to plan land in detail. We had such an incentive, as I mentioned earlier, called the Municipal Bonus. It was highly criticized, also on the part of the Christian Democrats. I'm not sure it's a government stimulus we need. I think we need to have a clear dialogue, because it is still a shortcoming even if that stimulus existed, so perhaps it is not an incentive that is the most important measure to bring about more buildable land for small houses. It is also about demand. Of course it is more expensive to buy a small house than it is to buy a small apartment. Then we need to strengthen the individual's economic ability to demand them as well.
i-dae4e3061563066c-686	Mr President, I would like to Emma Hult presents her position as an environmental party on how to find more small houses. Then I wonder, who's stopping? Now the Green Party has been in the government and has been in the Ministry of Housing for six years, and I have not seen any such proposals at all. I find it hard to imagine that it is the Liberals or the Center Party, which is nevertheless a cornerstone of the Green Party and the Social Democrats being in the Government Office. Is it the Social Democrats who are stopping this? It cannot be the case that the Green Party is only talking about its good intentions in the parliament's chamber without also running it in the Government Office. Who is stopping this, because every year we talk about the same thing but do not see any action from the government?
i-dae4e3061563066c-688	Mr President, I would like to If Larry Söder's purpose is to get me to say that it is the Social Democrats who are stopping all our proposals, then they are the ones we are in the government. Then it is clear that it is not just the Green Party's agenda that is being pursued. At national level, of course, it is the Social Democrats who are stopping a great deal of our proposals. In this case, it is about there being room in the budget and different conditions. Nor have the Christian Democrats financed either starting loans or housing savings in their budget. I hope that we will soon see these reforms. And I, as an environmental party and my party, will continue to push for that space to be there in the future too, because it is needed. We need to strengthen the individual's ability to also ask for property, which we have heard from many of the speakers in this House from the past.
i-dae4e3061563066c-691	Mr President, I would like to I believe that, earlier on, I was only in favour of the proposal, which was not my intention, so I should like to take this opportunity to correct it. Thank you, Emma Hult, for your speech! I would like to start by saying that I and the Moderates also welcome a homelessness strategy. I think that is something that Sweden needs. The last time that was produced was by the first alliance government, if I do not remember completely wrong, and it is time, to say the least, for it to be done again. I would like to ask Emma Hult a question which is not answered in the budget. It is about the housing situation of one of the groups with the most difficult access to the housing market at the moment, namely the new arrivals. Many new arrivals lack their own income and therefore the opportunity to have their own stable and long-term housing. This was an issue that not least I struggled very actively with for several years as municipal councillor. And I know that many municipalities around the country are wrestling with the issue. The state is shifting responsibility to municipalities that are struggling to resolve this situation. I would therefore like to ask Emma Hult why the government and the Green Party advocate that new arrivals take precedence in the housing queue. How can this be the solution to the housing situation of new arrivals?
i-dae4e3061563066c-695	Mr President, I would like to It is not a question that is a budget issue, but I still choose to answer it because those who look at the debate should be given an answer to the question. Otherwise, I appreciate that we stick to what we are here to debate. It is not the only measure. We advocate that municipalities have the mandate to choose to give priority to people in the housing queue for various reasons. It may be divorced women who have left a violent relationship, it may be new arrivals and it may be on other grounds. If a municipality considers that this is a measure for more people to be able to get a dwelling in the municipality, we think that the municipality should have that mandate – yes. I would not say that we pass the responsibility on to the municipalities. Local authorities are currently responsible for meeting the housing needs of their citizens. Then I would like to ask a question back to Josefin Malmqvist : How does Josefin Malmqvist see her friends in moderate-led municipalities, for example around Stockholm County, wallowing their housing policy responsibility on other municipalities in other parts of the country via social dumping?
i-dae4e3061563066c-698	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I am opposed to the concept of dumping people, because I certainly do not share that picture. I therefore very much oppose the concept of social dumping. Ultimately, it is the state that has taken responsibility and accounted for the great reception of new arrivals. It is the state that governs the reception of new arrivals in Sweden. It is also the state that has decided on a residence law that requires municipalities to accept and arrange housing for new arrivals, also municipalities that have a very long housing queue since before. Even municipalities that build a lot still have many people waiting in line for housing. On the moderate side, we believe that the state should take greater responsibility and should retain responsibility. Persons who have not yet been granted a residence permit should continue to be able to live in national housing instead of coming out and starting an establishment in municipalities. That is a question that separates us quite clearly. I therefore maintain my question: why does the Green Party think that the new arrivals should take precedence in the housing queue?
i-dae4e3061563066c-701	Mr President, I would like to Mr Malmqvist mentioned the word establishment, and it is perhaps one of the most important things that has been said in this debate. Why municipalities should take responsibility for our new citizens, even if they have not yet become Swedish citizens or been granted a permanent residence permit, is that they should be established into our society. This is not done in a facility housing anywhere in Sweden. You do that when you get out to a municipality where you get to meet other citizens. I wish the phenomenon of people being dumped didn't exist. But I also hope that Mr Josefin will have the opportunity to talk to the people who are exposed to social dumping in our country. They really feel dumped and passed over to another municipality. Last week I had a conversation with the psychiatrist here in Stockholm. It is not only the new arrivals but also the most vulnerable that we put in for long-term care in our country. They're going back to their municipality of residence, which says: No, no, we can't help you, because we don't have a home for you. They will then be dumped to other parts of our country.
i-dae4e3061563066c-704	Mr President, I would like to I agree with what was said here earlier about a national homelessness strategy. That's a good thing. We all agree that housing policy does not work. We can talk about parties' lack of proposals or reforms in their draft budget, and so on. But in the end, it is the Green Party and the Social Democrats who are responsible for the failed housing policy, and then it is important that they take responsibility for it. As has been said here, it is the Green Party that is in the ministry, and they have been very passive on this issue. In these times when we have corona, unemployment is increasing and many people have lost their income and are struggling to pay the rent and support their families and so on, then it is harder to get somewhere to live, harder than before the pandemic. The Green Party, together with the Social Democrats and its partners, wants to introduce market rents. How can market rents help these people? It is much harder today than it has ever been to get a place to live. They got in line long before the pandemic started. You can stand in line for ten years or more to get somewhere to stay, and after the pandemic it will be much more difficult. All the facts show that market rents will not solve the problem of housing shortage. Why do the Social Democrats and the Green Party continue to persist in introducing market rents? You know what the consequences are, especially with regard to the pandemic.
i-dae4e3061563066c-708	Mr President, I would like to I can tell you that this does not belong to this part of the budget either, and that is not dealt with in the report we are debating. However, for those who are watching the debate, I will of course also answer this question. There has been an investigation, but market rents are not the mission of the investigation. As everyone knows, this is an issue that neither the Green Party nor the Social Democrats have in the past driven or driven. But if you are going to form a basis for getting through important political reforms in the Swedish parliament, it is about giving and taking, and the Green Party not only wants to sit in opposition and whine about what is not happening but want to be able to take responsibility in real life. We have not yet seen what the investigation is landing in, nor do we know what proposals are coming. However, I fully agree with Momodou Malcolm Jallow. This will not solve the situation of those furthest from the housing market. That is why we need more proposals. Introduce free renting on a small part of the newly produced stock may create another type of housing that others in our society are asking for. I feel calm and confident that the Center Party and the Liberals are behind the government's investment aid, which guarantees a lower rent level for those who do not have such a fat wallet. However, as I said, this is not part of this budget report, so I think we should have this debate when we discuss housing policy.
i-dae4e3061563066c-714	Mr President, I would like to We cannot have this discussion without talking about what measures have been put forward to combat the housing shortage, and to discuss the introduction of so-called free renting – or market rents, as I and many researchers who can call it – is self-evident. It is, of course, a measure to tackle the housing shortage and fix housing policy, on which we all agree, is a failure. If it becomes harder to get a place to live, why have a system when building homes that make rents even higher than today? We must be able to distinguish between needs and demand. Many people need housing but cannot demand expensive housing, especially after the Corona crisis. It is important to take this into account. That is why I am asking again: why do you want to do this? Even if it is not your policy, it is you who govern.
i-dae4e3061563066c-717	Mr President, I would like to Yes, to get through other political reforms. It's about giving and taking. Momodou Malcolm Jallow claims that there will be even higher rents. We don't know that. It may be, but it is not inscribed that it will be so. In all other countries with similar systems there are regulations, and we will have regulations that provide protection for citizens. Finally, I would like to respond to what Momodou Jallow said about failure. I do not think that 38 000 new rentals through investment support are a failure. I do not think it is a failure that 18 200 of these have already been completed. I think it's a success. I do not think government policy is a failure. We have taken important steps forward, and perhaps the most important is the mission that Lena Hallengren gave to the National Board of Health and Welfare last week: to develop a new homelessness strategy.
i-dae4e3061563066c-721	Mr President, I would like to We live in special times in the midst of a pandemic. But the parliamentary work is continuing, and we are now debating category 18 CU1 on housing supply and construction. We will decide on additional support and incentives to help sustain construction in these difficult times. I will conclude my speech by talking about a number of consumer policy issues in order to include both parts of this debate in one and the same speech and save some time. The housing issue has been hot for several years, and housing shortages, social vulnerability and young people's ability to access the housing market is a constant focus. At the same time, we see an increase in injustice, segregation and exclusion. Much of the concerns we see in society are due to the fact that society is torn apart in several areas. A clear example of this is seen in Statskontoret's report on social dumping. Statskontoret has, on behalf of the Government, mapped the existence of social dumping, and in as many as 63 per cent of the 191 municipalities that have responded to the survey, it is said that the municipality has received new residents at the request of other municipalities' social services. In several cases we see municipalities that very consciously and strategically force or push out weak and vulnerable families to avoid costs. This is a sign that our society is falling apart, and we must do something about that. The Social Democrats can never accept this. We need to build a strong society that stays together and gives people security. A strong society we build together. Here, each person contributes according to his ability and is helped according to the needs of the moment. Secure people with faith in the future and employment creates prosperity and thus welfare. To do this, we must help each other. There must be solidarity. We cannot pit individuals against each other and, by extension, neither municipality against municipality. Everyone has a responsibility. Mr President, I would like to Housing construction is part of the welfare building, and high housing construction is a prerequisite for us to meet the challenges of the housing market in the future. The government's policy has produced results. We see the highest housing building in 30 years, and we have seen high housing construction for a number of years. The number of completed dwellings in 2019 was 60,000. This year the forecast is approximately 53,000. Of course, it is not good that the figure is falling, and the government's ambition is to get the figure up again. At the same time, however, we should be aware that this year's figure is well above the average over the past 10 to 20 years. It is gratifying that the construction of rental apartments has not been affected as much by the decline. It is probably largely thanks to the government's investment aid. The investment support is very much in demand, and so the government, together with the Center Party and Liberals, will raise the funding over the coming years to meet the high demand. As Emma Hult said earlier, investment aid has been granted since it was introduced for over 38 000 homes. Some of these had certainly been built anyway but certainly not with such favorable rental levels. Mr President, honourable Members of the Swedish Parliament. This shows that the market is not able to meet the housing needs. I would therefore like to see more, not fewer, instruments at national level that stimulate the building of housing for both multi-family and single-family buildings. Mr President, I would like to Furthermore, the Government has a new appropriation in this year's budget, namely a new simplified renovation aid. Today we see major challenges with the rehabilitation of, among other things, the million-programme areas. To meet these challenges, incentives are needed. Now in Corona times, some kind of kick-start is also needed to get the economy going. What, then, could be better than stimulating the renovation of these residential areas? They're so important to keep our society together. Mr President, I would like to What's to be done forward? The Social Democrats and the Government have been carrying out a number of measures for a number of years. It is a question of regulatory simplification, of maintaining construction and of a series of other measures. But the challenges are not over. A number of tasks remain. The January Agreement deals with some of them. These are regulatory simplifications, industrial construction and a number of other issues. Three things are important to me to deal with. We must ensure that construction costs are reduced so that people are able to live in what is being built. It is very much about municipalities and construction companies together finding models locally that make sure we find smart building models. The government will ensure that there will be a system of industrial construction that will thus make it easier for the small house industry in particular to build cheaply and easily with less regulatory hassle. The next major challenge is the social challenge. We see today that there are large groups in society that do not enter the housing market and that are drifting away from the society we are seeing today. It is about taking care of the groups that exist and, above all, not putting individuals against individuals, the municipality against the municipality, as we see today. The government has set up a housing social inquiry to deal with some of these issues. Finally, it is about what Emma Hult has already mentioned. The issue of homelessness is an extremely important issue which must be put on the agenda. Here, too, the government has addressed the issue by commissioning the National Board of Health and Welfare to analyse and propose measures to improve and combat homelessness in the long term. Mr President, I would like to The report also reads that the objective of consumer policy is a well-functioning consumer market and environmentally, socially and economically sustainable consumption. In an increasingly digitized world where the fine print becomes longer and contracts become more difficult to understand, it is not always easy to be a consumer. Children, young people and adults must constantly navigate among offers on TV, mobile and social media. An unwise choice can lead to a debt trap that can affect you and your family for a long time. The government's objectives are safe consumers, and it must be easy to do the right thing. In light of this, the Government has commissioned the Swedish Consumer Agency to promote and develop needs-oriented consumer support in collaboration between various societal actors that have the potential to help vulnerable consumers who especially need support and help. The Minister for Consumer Affairs has also met a number of municipalities where it has been proven that good consumer guidance can ultimately create benefits for society as a whole. Seeking help with one's economy can be associated with both guilt and shame. That is why cooperation between consumer guidance and budget and debt counselling is extremely important. We now see that debt is increasing in society. Therefore, the government has taken the initiative to now analyse the situation in the consumer credit market and see if it needs to be done further to address the challenges there. Mr President, I would like to In an ever-changing world, we see that fraudsters are finding new ways, and that is why legislation must follow. We will therefore follow up on the written requirement for telephone sales. We will work on a bill to strengthen the authority of the authorities to stop bad business models. We are now proposing stronger protection for those undergoing beauty surgery. All of this is done out of concern for both consumers and companies' competition. At the same time, we will take care of the customers on the market and the products placed on the market. If it is difficult to be a consumer normally, 2020 has been an extremely difficult year for many. The pandemic has created concerns for consumers who have had payment problems or who have not had the opportunity to get their money back because of cancellations. Companies have been worried that they will go bankrupt or have difficulty paying their bills. Associations have become afraid of being ruined because of the cancellation of events and sports. In order to mitigate these financial consequences, the government has submitted 12 additional amending budgets to Parliament this year in addition to the usual spring and autumn amending budgets. The budgets contain a large number of measures in the economic sector. It is about protecting people's lives and health, ensuring that people have a livelihood and ensuring that businesses survive this crisis. We have also provided additional money to Arn in this year's budget to enable it to resolve the disputes that have arisen between consumers and businesses. With these words, I would like to conclude my speech in the debate and note that we are facing a number of major challenges. In the wake of the pandemic, society and social development have been put on hold. We have a lot to deal with. But a strong society can cope with many of these challenges.
i-dae4e3061563066c-753	Mr President, I would like to I have a thought, Johan Löfstrand. According to SCB, the population over the next six years will increase by an average of 66,000 people per year. This corresponds on average to 33 000 new homes to cope with population growth in Sweden. A large proportion of these people are migrants in need of cheap housing, as they are often resource-weak in this context, many times for natural reasons. My question is how do the Social Democrats envisage this? If we are now going to continue to pursue migration policy, as is clearly the case in Sweden today, the question is how these resource-weak groups will have access to cheap housing. Should you continue to drive and leave the municipalities to bear the costs? Should we continue with the residence law, which gives priority to the cheap housing of migrants? These are homes that many Swedes today would like to have access to. But they see themselves run over by the residence law that gives priority to migrants. My question to Johan Löfstrand is simply: how are more cheap housing intended for resource-weak groups in view of the migration policy pursued by the government?
i-dae4e3061563066c-759	Mr President, I would like to This is not a debate on migration policy. Nevertheless, I think it is important to respond. Roger Hedlund has a little bit of a twist about the truth. I think we are going to have major challenges ahead, and I fully agree with that. But Sweden has tightened up migration policy in recent years. The last report I received was that 2021 will be the year in which we have the absolute lowest reception rates in many years. I believe that this trend will continue for a number of years to come. At the same time, we have a major housing shortage. It's nothing that I, as a Social Democrat, stick under the chair with. We must ensure that housing is built. Then I can be proud to note that in recent years more housing has been built than it has been in the last 30 to 40 years in this country. Between 2015 and 2018, nearly a quarter of a million homes were built. There are many more than it was built during eight years of bourgeois rule. It hasn't been a complete failure. A lot of homes are being built. But more must be built.
i-dae4e3061563066c-766	Mr President, I would like to That wasn't exactly an answer to my question. If you now want to pursue – as the Social Democrats do – a very generous migration policy, just look back in recent years at how strong migration has been in Sweden and how strong it will continue to be. There are more people looking for Sweden and more people who are relatives of those who have already come to Sweden. That's where you ask yourself, how are those people going to live? Where are the cheap housing for these weak groups of resources? Is it the municipalities that should continue to pay the rents to people who cannot afford to pay the rent themselves? Is it the case that Swedes should feel that they continue to be overcrowded in the housing queue because they give priority to the migrants who come to Sweden? There was no answer to my question from Johan Löfstrand. I received an answer that more housing is being built, but it is hardly cheap housing that is being built in Sweden today.
i-dae4e3061563066c-769	Mr President, I would like to In the migration agreement that we are now working on, we are making a regulatory framework that will be much tighter than previous regulations. I believe that this will have a significant impact on migratory flows. We see it very clearly when we look at the figures for the influx this year, and I think we will see it in the future. I therefore believe that we will see a reduction in migration to Sweden. At the same time, Roger Hedlund is right: we have challenges with the fact that much of what is being built today is expensive. That is why we Social Democrats, for example, want to retain investment aid, which guarantees that rental rights can be built with reasonable rents. Apart from that, I think the most important thing is not to set a group against a group. If a society is to be strong, we must stay together.
i-dae4e3061563066c-772	Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to ask Johan Löfstrand a question about something that we have discussed here today and on which I would very much like to hear the views of the Social Democrats. This applies to beach protection in Sweden. The idea was good when it was introduced in the 1950s: the public would have access to the beaches. We want to protect this idea from the moderate side, but we see that the general beach protection introduced under the Palme government has not had the desired effect. It's more like a wet blanket over large parts of Sweden. Today, 90 per cent of Sweden's coastline is unbuilt. That's about eight and a half laps around the world, so you can see that these are long coastlines we're talking about. It is not only sea beaches but also lakes and smaller watercourses that are covered by this. From a moderate point of view, we want to see the abolition of general beach protection. Instead, we want to give municipalities the opportunity to point out lakes and streams where they want beach protection to prevail. We also want greater flexibility to safeguard growth, competitiveness and the opportunity to develop residential areas in parts of Sweden that are currently difficult for the public to access. The idea is therefore good, but the protection has not quite fulfilled its purpose. In recent times we have seen that several Social Democratic councillors, most recently in a debate article from northern Sweden, have gone out and joined the Moderates' line on the need to reform beach protection. I would therefore like to ask Johan Löfstrand: What is the position of the Social Democrats? Would you consider joining the Moderates and seeing a reform of beach protection in Sweden?
i-dae4e3061563066c-778	Mr President, I would like to The issue of beach protection is an extremely important one. I have the greatest respect for the fact that there are a lot of challenges with the existing system. As Mr Malmqvist will know, this is one of the points in the January agreement, that is, one of the points where the government has set up an investigation. That investigation will present its proposal in about a week's time, I think. I have great hopes that the proposals of the investigation will also be implemented once the government has agreed with the Center Party and the Liberals to make liberalisation and a review of the protection of the shore. I eagerly await this investigation and am quite certain that once it has landed on the government table, it will also be implemented as part of the January Agreement. But I still have to turn a little bit towards Josefin Malmqvist's history writing. Josefin Malmqvist has the ability to go a long way back in history, both now and in our previous line shift. Once again, I have to say that the Moderates have ended up in some kind of opposition, both against the government and obviously against reality. My question to Josefin Malmqvist is: The last time the beach protection legislation was amended, when the small watercourses and ponds were included, when was it?
i-AjPCo1Kjr9gNXqtSVj2Zuf	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Johan Löfstrand! The information I received was that the investigation should have been presented on Monday. I understand that it has now been somewhat delayed. I very much look forward to seeing this study and the proposals that I hope will enable us to contribute together to change in this area. Municipal councillors around the country testify that they want to bring about a change in the area, and landowners around Sweden testify to a desire for and a need for reform. We must meet this from the national level. Johan Löfstrand asks a question about who has done what in this. I note that this regulation came about under two different social democratic governments. I am the first to note that not enough has been done to reform this, even under the alliance government. But that's no excuse for not making a change. I hope that we will be able to push this through together in this House shortly.
i-dae4e3061563066c-785	Mr President, I would like to I also hope that we will be able to get a change in beach protection. I think it is necessary, both to stimulate the construction of rural and sparsely populated areas and to create pleasant living environments in the future. However, it is important when we stand in this House to note that things are not so simple. For it was the former bourgeois government that had a very high level of ambition when it came to reforming the law on the protection of the shores. The problem was that the change that was made meant the exact opposite, i.e. that there was stricter legislation. Legislation is therefore not that simple. And the change that led to the inclusion of small watercourses at the moment was carried out under a bourgeois government.
i-dae4e3061563066c-788	Mr President, I would like to It can be seen that you have missed the speaker's seat. It has been coronapandemia and you have been home, so it feels really good to stand here. Thank you very much, Johan Löfstrand, for fine words! Of all, according to ability, for everyone as needed-- it's really a principle that I share. I also believe that we share the problem picture with regard to the housing market. In a few decades, the home has moved from a joint project to a private matter, from a social right to an investee. Not everyone has the same conditions to get a place to live. The Social Democrats have largely accepted this change. Today, the Social Democrats have mainly adopted the neo-liberal shift in the housing market and continue along the same path in this year's budget. Sweden cannot afford to let the market control even more. Market rents, as I mentioned earlier, will only exacerbate the housing shortage, increase rents and exacerbate segregation. So have the scientists. Johan Löfstrand mentioned that the Moderates were in opposition to reality. But is it not in opposition to the reality that the Social Democrats, when all the research has shown what the consequence is, still want to present this proposal? How does the government intend market rents to contribute to a better and fairer housing market?
i-dae4e3061563066c-793	Mr President, I would like to I can begin my answer in the same way that Emma Hult began her reply: basically, the Social Democracy is not in favour of introducing free renting. We do not believe that it will affect the rental stock to such an extent or in such a positive direction. On the other hand, there are a great many parties in this House who think that free renting – some even market rents – is a good proposal. This means that if we Social Democrats, together with the Green Party, had not taken responsibility and created joint budgetary cooperation with the Center Party and the Liberals – where we have given and taken and where we, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, have concluded that we will investigate the issue of free leasing in new production – we would not have been able to have investment aid. We could not have looked at the issue of health insurance. We could not have introduced a number of other social democratic issues. I mean, take responsibility for this country. Nor do I believe that this issue of free renting in the case of new production will mean market rents. I don't think it's going to affect renting at all in a lot of locations. Instead, I think it would be necessary to focus on the tools that are important. I know that in some respects we Social Democrats and the Left Party have exactly the same idea of what measures would be needed. But now we have investment aid because we have a January agreement that today generates housing that people can afford to demand. There would not have been a right-wing government in this Parliament.
i-dae4e3061563066c-797	Mr President, I would like to I understand and I agree with the investment support. We welcome this and think it is very good. We also think that the renovation aid is very good. Johan Löfstrand says that they take responsibility for Sweden. What happened to taking responsibility for all families with children who are homeless today and who will continue to be homeless when it is implemented with market rents? What happened to taking responsibility for all pensioners who have worked their whole lives but can't afford to pay for a place to live? What happened to taking responsibility for all new arrivals who come here and try to establish themselves but have no place to live and will not be able to afford it? What happened to taking responsibility for them, too? Yesterday I read about a 60-year-old wheelchair-bound who was thrown out of his apartment. The situation is acute and very serious, and we must take responsibility for this. Once you end up on the street, it is now up to you to get out of there. It's not taking responsibility. Why do you insist on continuing to do this?
i-dae4e3061563066c-800	Madam President, I would like Of course, it's terrible that this 60-year-old doesn't have a place to live. However, legislation on free renting will not affect it at all. On the other hand, it affects that the government has set up a housing social inquiry to look at this issue and that last week the government gave a mission to the National Board of Health and Welfare to actually look at how we should handle homelessness strategy. These two proposals may not help this particular 60-year-old, but they can help people who find it difficult to find a place to live in the future. It would not have happened if we had had a right-wing government that would have run this Parliament. I mean, take responsibility. We compromise to generate a number of positive proposals in this House, but not everything is our policy. That's how democracy works.
i-dae4e3061563066c-803	Madam President, I would like During the pandemic, housing has become something more than it has been in the past. It's the place you spend almost all your free time, it's where you hang out with your loved ones and they've become our workplace too many of us. This can be seen from house prices when villas, flats and free-time residences have become more expensive. Difficulties in accessing the owned market persist. It has not been easier for young people to save for and buy a dwelling. The Center Party wants to investigate housing savings. More forms are possible – one does not really have to exclude the other – but we believe in building savings, according to the German model, which means saving first and borrowing then. A simpler entry into the owned housing market would ease the pressure for rentals to which the queues are still very long. But our Minister for Housing and Finance refuses to take this on board. Funding is essential. The number of residential units being built has halved since 2017. At the same time, the production of rental apartments has remained constant, and it is good luck, but that is not enough. Sixty-one thousand more homes are needed by 2027. The Minister of Housing usually points out that it is thanks to the investment support that it is being built now, but that is not the whole truth. It is built because we have construction companies and residential developers who understand that this need needs to be met, succeed in generating capital and can see the long-term profitability of building, selling and managing housing for people who are prepared to pay for them. Madam President, I would like Predictability and good conditions for companies that create jobs and housing are the foundation. Consumer protection is also important. We need protection against usury and sudden rent increases, and it needs to be secured in every model that we will have to negotiate our rents for. We have previously seen in the Riksdag how the Christian Democrats and the Left Party want to go further than the rest of us and make it more difficult for housing developers through additional rules. And we hear how the rest of the Alliance's parties are interested in how we in the Center Party and the Liberals succeed in getting the government to reform renting. If the proposals that come out of the three investigations fulfil what we agreed in the January agreement, we will have a broad majority in the Swedish Parliament. But the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party are now the only parties in the Riksdag who openly oppose a more free renting in new production, a more varied renting in the existing stock and, which is no less important, faster and more efficient rent negotiations. Madam President, I would like Another discussion where parties duck is when it comes to the need for a new social housing sector in Sweden. A year ago, when we last had a budget debate here, the Center Party highlighted this. And since then the government has set up an investigation, a socially sustainable housing supply. I welcome it as a first step but do not think it is enough. Comparing it with the large housing social investigation that was going on between 1933 and 1947 is an exaggeration. The problems that need to be solved now are similar to those that existed in Gustav Möller's time, but you cannot solve this with a quick fix. The structurally homeless are already being dealt with by municipalities' social services. More than 20 000 social contracts are being brokered today. In addition, the Boverket has concluded that 425 000 households live in crowded housing. The overcrowded who are also economically vulnerable are as many as 56 000. This is more than 1 per cent of the total number of households in Sweden. The calculations made show that a social housing sector is needed in Sweden, which is financed with tax revenue. The way it is to be done requires a new investigation. Too many people don't have a fixed address. They are forced to move around, live crowded, rely on friends and family or illegal black contracts at usury prices, which is not at all unusual in today's regulated rental levels. Now we can add young people, families and people born abroad who all have an income from temporary jobs and lack queue time and references but do not have a social problem. A permanent home knows everyone is the basis for being able to establish themselves in the labour market, start a family and have a social network in a place where you want to stay. The housing market simply does not work. The pace of construction is too low. Sixy-four thousand apartments had to be built, but instead around fifty thousand were built. Stigdependence in housing policy leaves us with just one measure: building subsidies. A considerable part of the expenditure we are going to discuss today is about it. One condition for the Center Party to accept the construction subsidies has been that they contribute to housing being added to places where they would not otherwise have been built and that there is an ambition to ensure that the housing situation can be resolved for households with the lowest income and for young people. With previous investment aid, it has only been possible to obtain in municipalities with population growth. Instead, it can now be sought where there is a lack of a certain type of housing. There is therefore no need for population growth, but there is a need to lack a certain type of housing. By dividing the amounts into pots, we make sure that there is enough in the pot so that municipalities outside large cities can be sure to obtain money and be able to build for their needs. The size of the pots must, of course, be evaluated and be able to change so that rural areas are not disadvantaged in favour of big cities and growth municipalities where it will still be possible to build. They're not supposed to take everything. In cases where aid is requested for more than ten apartments, housing, a certain proportion of small apartments, social contracts or young people under the age of 31 must be provided. It is good if subsidies help to reduce costs, reduce energy consumption and streamline methods, so that lead times can be kept down with industrial construction and sustainable materials. Madam President, I would like The construction and real estate industry has so far managed quite well through the pandemic. But there is reason to worry about the construction industry, especially for the smaller companies that are now making a living by renovating and building in the home of private individuals. Other sectors that are having an extremely tough time are event, concert and tour operators. Consumer protection against them is strong, and the way they have managed has been to wait to refund purchased tickets and to offer gift cards as compensation. As time passes, it becomes uncertain whether and when it will again be possible for event and tour operators to get started with their activities as before. Short-term lay-offs and conversion aid have been valuable, but, compared to others, these companies have been hit twice. There is a need for further support to the travel industry, and it works the Center Party for. Madam President, I would like I shall return to housing policy. We have removed the removal tax, in that the amount of the deferral is no longer taxed. Now we're reforming the lease. We simplify and speed up the planning and building permits processes, make it easier to build close to the beach, clear unnecessary national interests, make it more difficult to apply and make it possible to expand your farm with a riding house, café or similar. That is how we conduct policies, with a focus on results and tough negotiations based on 73 strong reforms in the January agreement. Housing policy is an important part, but it is not yet fully in place. A review of the taxes affecting construction and the housing market is needed. We are still waiting for an initiative on tax calls from the government. Madam President, I would like However, the work goes on. Regulatory simplification is an ongoing process, at least as long as there is a housing shortage in most of the country's municipalities.
i-dae4e3061563066c-825	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to comment on Ola Johansson's tough negotiations with regard to travel companies and the problems in the travel industry. In fact, it is the Center Party that has made every proposal we have put forward and in which, as an opposition, we have tried to do something for the travel companies. So far, we have seen very little of the fact that the tough negotiations would have led to a solution. 2020 has in many ways become the year of the pandemic. In the field of civil society, it may be particularly evident when you look at the General Complaints Board, which has received far more complaints than usual. Especially when it comes to travel and events, the notifications have rushed away. The government has provided little funding, especially for 2020, to meet the increased burden. However, we do not believe that the government's contribution is sufficient. We certainly do not believe, as the government seems to believe, that the number of cases will decrease next year. Therefore, we want to make a greater effort on the General Complaints Board. In fact, the government is saving almost 3.5 million next year at the General Complaints Board, compared with the total funding of the year of 55.5 million. The new appropriation for the General Complaints Board is in the government budget 52.1 million, and we Swedish democrats are raising it by 2.5 million extra to 54.6 million. However, there are other things that the government is happy to spend money on now during the crisis. 3 1⁄2 million people want to spend on developing the Money from Sweden service. To give priority to services for sending money abroad rather than helping people in Sweden who are in dispute is for me a very strange priority. This service is very much worth questioning at all. Who's using it? What kind of money is being passed on? And who is the final recipient? We know almost nothing about it. Of course, there are a large number of immigrants in Sweden who can surely need to send money to and from relatives and friends in other countries. But is it really a government matter that all taxpayers in Sweden should be involved in contributing to? I don't think so. It is a waste of resources that Swedish tax funds should be used to help channel money from Sweden. Tax funds should be used for our common interests and to fund our common welfare. Money from Sweden is definitely a mistake in every aspect. Although 31⁄2 million is not a big investment in the budget that we are now debating, it is money that is being spent on something that is directly harmful to the country as a whole. We should strive to eliminate this type of budgetary self-harm. In these times, when we really need to prioritise our own society, it is, if possible, even more wrong. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to support our reservation 1.
i-dae4e3061563066c-832	Madam President, I would like It was not my intention to request a reply at Mikael Eskilandersson. But when he caught on to my bait about discussing support for the travel business, I couldn't help it. It is true that the Center Party chose not to back up the committee initiative for an announcement on a travel fund to borrow money from. The Center Party is a budget negotiating party. We take responsibility for Sweden's economy. We choose not to support proposals that have a powerful budgetary impact. That would be completely wrong from our position as a party that trusts to negotiate support measures for businesses. I mentioned several of them: turnover aid, short-term lay-offs and other measures that have been good for business. There, the Swedish Democrats have not contributed very much. The policy that Mikael and even the Moderates have represented here lacks credibility because they put forward the proposals but then do not have coverage for them in their own budget. It would be interesting to see Mikael Eskilandersson reporting on which line in the Swedish Democrats shadow budget support to the travel industry is mentioned.
i-dae4e3061563066c-835	Madam President, I would like As far as the travel industry is concerned, the most interesting thing is that there is still no solution at all. There has not really been any kind of universal solution that has focused on the travel industry. In principle, all aid has been directed towards something else. A fund for the travel industry would be self-financing. Of course it can be entered into a budget. However, if we are to start thinking about budgeting for it at all, there must be a majority at first in favour of introducing such a fund. We would like to see such a fund in the long term. But we haven't even investigated what it would cost. The cost we have been told of is an estimate from the travel industry itself. I would first like to see an investigation into what the real cost would be and how it could be financed. As we said when this was debated in committee, the fund can be funded in several ways. Personally, I have no problem at all with taking part of the budget that has been built up within the General Heritage Fund. There has been a fairly large amount of capital built up. I don't really see why you should keep building it. That would be possible funding. Then we don't have to talk about it having to be on a row in a budget. The big question, however, is how to resolve the situation in the long term. Shouldn't we be introducing a fund? You can start by paying in to it now, for the next trips, so that at least in the long term we are building a fund. Somehow it has to be resolved. We think that a fund, similar to that in Denmark, would be a good solution.
i-dae4e3061563066c-839	Madam President, I would like It is well known to me how such a fund could be constructed. It also seems to be known for Mikael Eskilandersson. But my point is, whether it's a loan or not, something to be paid out and then repaid, that's something that needs to be included in a budget. You have to set aside money for the fund. If it is not done in a shadow budget, proposals like this fall flat. If one week has been in favour of a proposal and two weeks later has taken away the funding of the proposal when presenting its budget, there is no seriality in proposing such a thing. It'll be like using the same money over and over again. If you have to base your budget on the creation of an investigation, I understand that it is difficult for the Swedish Democrats to squeeze out a budget.
i-dae4e3061563066c-841	Madam President, I would like As I said, there are different ways of financing such a fund. The question is, above all, whether we want a fund in the long term, and that is what we want. In that case, you can start with a fund where you have the travel companies pay into it themselves through upcoming trips. As it is now, we have no solution whatsoever. From what I understand, the Center Party does not have a solution to the situation either. As things stand now, the travel industry has only to hope to survive and that soon a vaccine will come so that you can start selling trips again. For the vast majority of travel companies, however, it is quite critical, and more support is needed.
i-dae4e3061563066c-843	Madam President, I would like Consumer policy is an area close to all of us. We're all consumers. In a year we make lots of choices when we buy goods and services. It's hard to get around making purchases. But being a consumer is becoming increasingly difficult and more complicated. More technologically advanced products, more complex financial services and a global market offer increased opportunities but also pose major challenges for consumers. Although there is a high level of consumer protection, consumers are often at a disadvantage both in terms of choice of products and in the case of disputes. Advanced methods are used to make us human beings consume more and as much as possible. Every day we are overwhelmed by advertising, which calls on us to consume more of goods and services. Marketing is often very aggressive and often addresses groups of consumers who are already economically vulnerable. Madam President, I would like A good consumer policy is therefore needed for everyone. The Left Party Budget Movement presents comprehensive spending on welfare and a reformed tax system. We are doing this in order to increase equality through redistribution and create the conditions for success in a green transition. It also includes initiatives in the field of consumer protection. I would have liked to have heard in the debate about more efforts from other parties. Madam President, I would like We want to increase consumer guidance throughout Sweden. We want a local consumer guide to be available in each municipality. Since it is not mandatory for municipalities to have consumer guidance, we want to invest 75 million to make this assistance available throughout the country. For many years, the Swedish Consumer Agency has mapped out local authorities' consumer guidance. For several years, municipalities have gradually cut back on their guidance, and that is a trend that we must break. Several municipalities offer some form of consumer guidance, but unfortunately this is often too inadequate. According to Sweden's Consumers, 87 of the country's municipalities have no consumer guidance whatsoever. This means that more than 1 million people – 1 million consumers – find it very difficult to get help and support when needed. And help is needed. The cases at the General Complaints Board are increasing. The increase has steadily increased and has continued in 2020. That is why we also want to give additional resources to Arn, namely 3 million extra, so that matters do not get in line. Madam President, I would like We spend a lot of money on goods and services. Among other things, we spend millions on craft services. Sometimes it gets wrong, that you don't agree or that you're being fooled. The local consumer advisor can provide help and support when something is not as planned. They have the opportunity to follow up cases with the consumers who need help. Some cases require a lot of feedback. Then it is good to be able to meet one and the same consumer advisor. They can also provide support in cases to the General Complaints Board. Some cases do not even have to end up there if consumer guides are given the opportunity to help mediate in advance. It also saves resources at Arn if the cases are properly prepared when they get there. This can be helped by local consumer guidance. We should not forget prevention. Local guidance can reach out on a broad front, work with local connections and collaborate with schools. Consumers can be informed and made aware of the pitfalls and problems in the consumer field. With good knowledge of what applies and where to turn for support and help, we can strengthen consumer power and influence in society. Madam President, I would like We also want support for civil society organisations to be restored. They have an important function in reaching as many of Sweden's consumers as possible. Non-profit organisations can promote safe and sustainable consumption through their knowledge and networks and with consumers in all groups. They can support consumers and prevent problems. Unlike the authorities, non-profit organisations can act quickly, challenge, push and be a little bold. Ideal organisations have a great opportunity to be a counterforce and create counter-images against advertising and consumption patterns that discourage sustainable development. Civil society has shown innumerable times that very large results can be achieved by means of small means. This is not a huge sum: 4 million. But I think it's so important. In these spending budgets such a line should not be very difficult to squeeze in. We in the Left Party believe that it is important for them to be able to continue their activities, and we have therefore put this money in our budget, and we are happy to do so. Madam President, I would like Consumers are everywhere in Sweden. Everyone should be able to get the same help wherever they live. Equal service and knowledgeable consumers are what we in the Left Party want to invest in.
i-dae4e3061563066c-856	Madam President, I would like It needs to be more secure for private individuals to buy second-hand goods. You should dare to trade things that are already used without having to worry, for example so that the warranty will not apply even if the product is almost new. Another absurdity today is that cars may owe money. So the bottom line, Madam President, is that the car owes money, not the owner of the car when the debt arises. Of course it's hairy, but in practice it's a reality. Although it is possible to control the debts of the vehicle via the Swedish Transport Agency's website or the agency's voice-controlled customer service, neither the Swedish Transport Agency nor the Swedish Enforcement Authority can provide a fully updated picture of all the debts issued for a particular vehicle. This is because it takes time before debts are updated or recorded in the Road Traffic Register. The buyer thus risks taking over debts or having the vehicle seized by Kronofogden. Unfortunately, the sale of used cars is an area used for fraud. The Center Party therefore believes that there is a need for a review of the regulatory framework governing these transactions. Madam President, I would like Let me go into almost new stuff. Here, too, is the legislation in the back and front. What seems obvious – that a product's warranty is valid for a certain period of time – is today a truth with modification. The warranty or right to complain only applies if the goods have not been resold. Thus, a new owner of an almost new TV will not be able to complain, even if the TV is only a few weeks old. Madam President, I would like There is a need for a system in which the guarantee and the right to complain accompany the product. In order to support the re-use and resale of products that the individual no longer needs and to simplify for those who buy a second-hand item, we also want the right of complaint to comply with the product instead of staying with the original buyer. Similarly, the purchaser of a second-hand product should also be able to claim services, such as repair or renovation services carried out on the product. The longer a product lasts, the better for the environment. Strong consumer protection creates incentives for manufacturers to produce products that last longer. The Center Party therefore wants to extend the statutory consumer law for products so that companies have the burden of proof for one year instead of today's six months. The issues mentioned above are important in order to achieve the consumer policy objective of ensuring the proper functioning of consumer markets and contributing to environmentally, socially and economically sustainable consumption. Having said that, I am in favour of the proposal in the report.
i-dae4e3061563066c-863	Madam President, I would like Initially, I would like to state that the Moderates do not participate in the decision on this expenditure area because the Moderates' budget option is a coherent package that cannot be broken out in any part or treated in isolation. That is why we have a separate opinion, and in our reservation, which I support, we describe a different political direction. It is not possible to hold a debate about Sweden's international involvement without first looking at ourselves in the mirror. The mirror is not always what we want when we look at it, for example when crime and unemployment affect Sweden to a greater extent than should and could be the case. In addition to the coronapandemia, Sweden has to deal with high unemployment and serious crime, which characterizes Sweden to a greater extent than they characterize our immediate environment. Crime and unemployment are the additional burden that Sweden carries when facing social problems both at home and away. These are tasks the government has been working on so far. Madam President, I would like Sweden's foreign policy shall be based on Swedish interests and values. It should be obvious, but unfortunately that is not the case. Sweden's ability to protect our interests and values in a changing world is a crucial force for our country's prosperity and security, and this also applies to the functioning of EU cooperation, the most important platform of our time. EU cooperation is a prerequisite for Swedish foreign, security, trade, defence and development policy to stick together. At the same time, Sweden can be a strengthening force in the EU which, with its openness for good, also faces isolationist currents of evil. There, the best of Swedish values and action can play a greater role than our 10 million inhabitants to the numerary can match. A Swedish foreign policy should be clearly rooted in the tradition of ideas that forms the basis of our open society, our democracy, our rule of law principles as well as the universal status and applicability of human rights and freedoms. It is from this basis that Sweden's global commitment and our country's security can be shaped in collaboration with others. It should be solidarity, not neutrality, that applies. Madam President, I would like Sweden will be a strong force for multilateralism and will act internationally both predictablely and in a balanced and transparent manner. Working together with like-minded people is the guiding principle that should govern our international engagement. It is therefore self-evident that Sweden should actively pursue a policy aimed at establishing close cooperation with like-minded countries in the world which share our democratic values. Sweden and the world face significant challenges. The basic foundations for development in the form of democracy and free trade that we have taken for granted for generations are strongly challenged in many parts of the world around us. In Sweden's immediate environment we see a Russia that is becoming increasingly muscular and increasingly less striving to be an international team player. The country's warfare in Ukraine and significant negative influence on developments in Belarus demonstrate the importance of international cooperation, not least through the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSSE. The fact that Sweden will take over the OSSE Presidency next year is an opportunity that must not be neglected. These democratic efforts that we can make through international bodies must not be neglected, even in countries within the European Union. If Europe is to be the force we all want, the foundations of the Union must be respected and respected. For a better world, international institutions play an important and sometimes crucial role. When the UN and its sub-agencies fall in several cases, the EU, the Council of Europe, the OSSE and the OECD are worthy of care. Madam President, I would like Several of the cornerstones of our foreign policy and our collaborations are changing and being challenged. It is about EU cooperation, it is about the transatlantic link and it is about the rule-based world order that has existed during the post-war period. The cornerstones of our foreign policy and our collaborations are changing and being challenged. It is about EU cooperation, it is about the transatlantic link and it is about the rule-based world order. The unpleasant realization is that neither democratic development nor democracy can be taken for granted. China's growing economy has increased its appetite for political power far beyond its borders. 2020 was the year when Sweden and the world seriously became aware of a China with long-term global and security policy ambitions. President Xi Jinping's goal is for the country in 2049 to be a dominant power economically, politically, culturally and militarily. This goal is all too often dressed in the arrogance of the haughty one. It is an pride that turns into abuse, such as against the kidnapped and imprisoned publisher Gui Minhai or against the Uighurs sent to Chinese labor camps. But pride does not pass on by itself through own understanding. Pride must be met with that which is the strength of the free and democratic world. Through continued respect for rule-based global free trade, as well as respect for the principles of the rule of law, which have been fundamental to our success, we can also believe that these values and international cooperation are the best forces we can use to challenge what we take so for granted. Then we face the China that denies its own people the freedom of opinion that we are used to in Sweden and that, against all agreements, has made Hong Kong's relative independence a closed chapter. Today's judgments against the three democracy activists clearly confirm this picture of reality. Madam President, I would like Authoritarian leadership sets its mark on many countries. North Korea, China, Russia, Venezuela, Turkey, Belarus and Hungary are all countries governed to varying degrees by leaders who, in addition to their respective political agenda, also have a personal image that more recalls the non-elected rulers of the past. These can be added to regimes based on religious fundamentalism, where Iran is the most prominent example. These countries and their regimes are reminders that democracy must never be taken for granted. It is challenged from the right and left with a well-filled toolbox equipped to dismantle, not build up, the fundamental institutions of the rule of law. Sweden as a mature democracy and established rule of law has a mission in the world to help build institutions in other countries that lack them. International cooperation is needed for this. To this end, the EU, the OSSE, the Council of Europe and the OECD are needed. To this end, joint efforts are needed to promote the values we hold dear. Acquired knowledge is a gift that can never be lost; it can only be passed on. The EU is Sweden's most important foreign policy platform. But the uncertain development that is taking place in Sweden's neighbourhood also highlights the need for Swedish NATO membership. Sweden must pursue an active foreign policy in order to influence the EU's positions and then that the EU conducts a policy to influence our environment. By deepening the EU's foreign, defence and security policy, we can face a troubled world in a stronger way. Madam President, I would like From east to west and from Africa to the Arctic, the world faces ever new challenges. Sweden is not at the edge of the world in this context. Sweden is greatly affected by what is happening in our vicinity. But we can also influence developments in a positive direction. We do this in the best way with democratic freedom values as a basis for Sweden's and the world's best.
i-dae4e3061563066c-879	Madam President, I would like When you heard the introduction from your colleague, it almost sounded like we were about to enter a general foreign policy debate. However, we are debating Category 5, which deals with international cooperation. That's the small part, let's say – it's 2 billion that this is all about. In the big budget, this is a small part of the budget. Madam President, I would like International collaboration is 70 percent about where we are members and which international organisations we have joined. We are showing our multilateral agenda by being on the various platforms that are visible in the budget. Of course, a vital part is the UN. 62% – or something of that magnitude – of the allocation to multilateral organisations goes precisely to the UN. That's the clear part. Then, of course, we also have the Nordic Council of Ministers, the Council of Europe, the OSSE and the OECD, which are part of this. The EU is an important security and foreign policy part of our common foreign policy. However, we do not pay a membership fee to the EU under Category 5. It is, of course, something that is important to make visible. Otherwise you might think about just that. This area of expenditure has an objective that is to ensure Sweden's international interests in relations with other countries. In this case, the foreign administration is, of course, an important part of the whole. The Foreign Service means a presence in other countries, which builds much of our voice and contacts. However, the foreign administration is not part of international cooperation but is part of Category 1. That is why it is not up for debate at the moment. Madam President, I would like We have had a discussion in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on how we can follow up on results in our budgetary areas. Over the past year up to this budget, we have tried to get a deeper focus on some of those areas, including Category 5. It is the area of peace and security that has been highlighted. As we can read in our report, international crisis management and peace-promoting efforts have been the subject of our evaluation and research secretariat's follow-up report. There are other things to be desired and some other things to be developed in this area. The committee jointly points to this in the report. I think it is important – the House and the Committee on Foreign Affairs should be able to examine how results are achieved, we really need to work on the development of follow-up. We in the Center Party are, of course, behind the budget that lies and the 2 billion in Category 5 expenditure. We have no disagreement there. However, there is a disagreement and a reservation, Madam President, in the point in the report which deals with the direction of policy. It is a question of what happens in the long term. We have not only 15 years of democratic decline in the world, but also 15 years of decline in human rights and freedoms. There is a clear connection here. When people's freedom and people's rights are limited, it often begins in small things. Then it grows more and more. In the authoritarian states and in dictatorships it is well visible. But, Madam President, so is democracy. That is, of course, what we are struggling with in Europe today, and that is what we are wrestling with in many of the semi-democrats that we see developing and where one or the other force is trying to limit the space for freedom and people's right to choose their way in life, to be who you want to be, to love who you want to love and so on. We have for some time seen this clearly here too in terms of how women's rights have been restricted and how women's freedom is restricted. It's a start. Then there is often a continuation if we do not watch out. It is clear that our presence in various bodies is important for us to be a voice that does not leave the ground, but challenges the forces that seek to restrict freedom and rights for people. Where this happens, we know that democracy will fall. Of course, we choose to point to these issues in our reservation. Freedom from oppression is an important starting point for us to assert democracy. In feminist foreign policy, it is important to highlight women's rights. But don't forget that this is usually how you go about it: you take one right after another, and one freedom space after another is closed. Eventually, they're all closed. It is therefore important to see the whole picture. We point to the right to education for girls and boys, the right to their body and health, including sexual and reproductive health and rights, the right to ownership and self-determination, and not least the right to influence and power in society. When the individual's rights are the starting point, we do not make different minorities, such as LGBTI people, boys or people of a certain age, but it is really the individual right that is in focus. We believe that this is important in our international collaboration for the long-term work for democracy and sustainable development and in order, in the long term, to achieve the Agenda 2030 objectives. With this, I would ask you to accept reservation 3 in paragraph 2.
i-dae4e3061563066c-891	Madam President, I would like We are now debating one of the smallest areas of expenditure in the state budget but at the same time the area of expenditure which, together with the aid budget, has the most international impact. It is through this spending area that we provide resources and define Sweden's role in the world. And that is a role that we in the Left Party believe should be increased. Although we are talking here about small money, the Left Party is the party that spends the most money in the budget for the area of international cooperation. This year it is 20 years since Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security was adopted by the UN Security Council. It was the first time that the UN made a link between security policy and women, how women are affected and how women can influence security policy. UN Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security is based on three basic principles: participation, conflict prevention and protection. It is, together with the subsequent nine resolutions, an important tool to enhance the safety of women. However, despite the fact that it has been 20 years since resolution 1325 was adopted, it has proved difficult to make the agenda a reality. Now I think it's time to take the next step. An action plan is not enough to call itself a feminist government. In order to have a greater impact on the objectives of the resolution, an ambassador for Resolution 1325 and the subsequent resolutions must be appointed. The Left Party therefore proposes a new grant for a Swedish ambassador for UN resolution 1325 of SEK 3 million, and we want this sum to be set aside annually. However, we have put it under the wrong heading of expenditure – so we have put it under the heading of expenditure that we are now debating, but it should be under another heading of expenditure – and we will therefore come back with the proposal in the right category of expenditure. Madam President, I would like When police officer Chauvin Chauvin pressed his knee against George Floyd, that was the start of widespread protests against racism around the United States and in the world under the slogan Black Lives maths. Losing one's life is the ultimate consequence of racism. This struck George Floyd in the United States, as it did those who were murdered by Peter Mangs or John Ausonius here in Sweden. But the murder of George Floyd is far from the only example. We have seen racism and brutality, both historically and in the near future, affecting blacks in the United States. The protests in Black Live's maths have had an enormous explosive force with demonstrations in over 2,000 U.S. cities. Racial discrimination in the United States is based on centuries of oppression, discrimination and slavery. Although laws have changed, racist structures are still visible. Under the leadership of President Trump, the United States has moved in a reactionary direction. It is a question of restricting women's right to abortion and their own body and of clarifying racial differences. Now Trump will most likely resign, and we will have a new president in Biden who represents other values. But racism and misogynism in the United States persist, and we have seen during Donald Trumps's time as president that he has set the tone for the debate around the world. Enabling US human rights organisations to take part in Swedish democracy support aimed at human rights organisations in the US is a way to highlight this development and support the women's rights movement and Black live's math movement in the USA. The Left Party therefore proposes a new grant for Swedish support to the US civil society of SEK 50 million annually. As long as I'm going to talk today, even a little longer, police officer Chauvin Derek keeps his knee pressed hard against George Floyd's neck. I can 中 t breathe. I can't breathe. George Floyd says that sentence 16 times before he dies. Since Carl Bildt's time as Foreign Minister gives Sweden financial support to the American think tank Atlantic Council. The think tank is working on global security policy issues and transatlantic cooperation. Other contributors include NATO, a wide range of NATO countries, several large oil companies and oil producing countries, and Swedish weapons manufacturer Saab. In short, the Atlantic Council has close ties with NATO and the oil industry. The Left Party does not see NATO or NATO-related think tanks as part of Sweden's peace and security promotion activities. Therefore, we propose that SEK 10 million be taken from the Atlantic Council and other similar organisations and that they be used instead to reduce security policy threats in a different way. Russia is today a threat to security policy, first and foremost to everyone in Russia who opposes the rule of the Kremlin and who does not fit in with the society that Putin wants to build. For Russian LGBTQ people, feminists, indigenous representatives, environmental movements and leftist activists, their own regime is a daily security threat. Secondly, Russia's imperialist policy poses a direct threat to the population of several neighbouring countries such as Ukraine, Georgia, Belarus, Moldova and the countries of Central Asia. Thirdly, the Putin regime poses a serious security policy threat to Sweden. It is a threat that we must take seriously. However, if Russia develops in a more democratic direction, it will pose a less security policy threat to us and neighbouring countries. That is why the Russian opposition – not some parties but the real, courageous opposition, made up of these LGBT activists, feminists, human rights defenders and environmentalists – needs the support of the outside world. To support them is to support democratic development in Russia and improve security for the outside world. This is why the Left Party wants to step up Swedish support for Russian civil society through an annual step-by-step increase of SEK 10 million for the grant called Cooperation within the Baltic Sea Region. In total, the increase will be 60 million. As the budget is a whole that we do not want to break up, I refer to the special opinion of the Left Party. We're not taking part in the decision.
i-dae4e3061563066c-909	Madam President, I would like It is always as exciting to hear what Håkan Svenneling picks up from the ideological hat. Is it going to be a rabbit, or is it going to be a duck? There are elections in Venezuela this Sunday. It is likely that the elections will be rigged, and the control of the opposition over the last democratically elected institution will end. There are voters who say that they are afraid to vote for something other than the Maduros Party, the United Socialist Party of Venezuela. They suspect that the electoral secret will not be respected. In September, in a report by Maduro, the UN accused human rights violations, including extrajudicial executions. Some 5,000 people are reported to have been killed by security forces. I note that Håkan Svenneling and the Left Party want to set aside SEK 50 million annually in support of the US civil society to strengthen democracy. I may find it laudable in one way, but 50 million dollars in the United States, which is the richest country in the world, will make only small crumbs in difference. I also think it is a commendable initiative that the Left Party is involved in the lack of Russian democracy, because it is a country that has no democracy except on the paper of the government. In consequence, however, I think that this a total of SEK 110 million would have done so much more useful in Venezuela. While you are now in business and spending money for the benefit of democracy, which is a good thing – why are you missing Venezuela? They would thank and receive with great joy.
i-dae4e3061563066c-914	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the moderate praise from Mrs Rothenberg on the involvement of the Left Party in democracy. I myself have been to both the United States and Russia and met democracy activists there. One must say that Mrs Rothenberg is right in his analysis: in this context, it is small money that we are talking about. I believe that it is often more important to see the signal value and also to see that the small resources can be very useful to those who are marginalised in these political debates. This is particularly true in Russia, but to some extent also in the USA, where money controls a lot of politics. We have seen clear examples of this in the election campaign. The Left Party has in no way missed the development in Latin America and then specifically Venezuela, which Mrs Rothenberg is lifting. We have interceded the Minister for Foreign Affairs and asked written questions about these things and on several occasions highlighted the need for Sweden's commitment. Sweden is part of the international contact group to Venezuela that works to restore democracy. Mr Rothenberg is absolutely right that there is no democracy there today. Part of the opposition will take part in the elections on Sunday. I find it a bit sad that Swedish bourgeoisie is already calling out that the elections are unfair. I would rather wait for what the election observers who will still be in place will say about the election on Sunday before I decide my opinion on that election. It may sound very boring and formal, but that is my starting point. I think it is important for those present to be able to present their report on the situation. Maduro has received serious human rights criticism from the UN. I think it is a good thing that attention is being paid to it. Those responsible for violence and murder need to be held accountable. At the same time, the outside world needs to take a new turn and actually support a more democratic development in Venezuela to a greater extent than it is now.
i-dae4e3061563066c-919	Madam President, I would like One of perhaps the biggest political changes that have taken place in Swedish politics in the last half century is the Left Party movement from having previously been dictatorship hugging in the socialist direction to now standing in the Swedish parliament and advocating democracy. I respect that, but it lands a little crazy with the priorities and the proportions. I would have had more respect if the Left Party were to spend even more money on Venezuela and on other countries that would need democratic aid far more than, for example, a democracy like the United States. Please explain why you have made that priority: 60 million to Russia, 50 million to the United States and zero million to Venezuela in support of democracy.
i-dae4e3061563066c-922	Madam President, I would like We may have a little lesson with Hans Rothenberg on how aid and aid budgets work. After all, the Left Party does not want to make settlements to the extent that the government wants to do. This means that we have more money in the aid budget than any other party. The Moderates, for their part, actually want to cut the aid budget and cut it down to 75% of what it is today. There will then be less money to invest in Latin America, which is part of the countries that can receive aid. Unfortunately, the United States cannot get aid, because it is such a rich country. That is why we have called this democracy support. I would have liked to have put it in the aid budget, but now it is here instead because it is not general aid. This means that the proposal is here. The same is true of Russia, which is also not an aid country, but with which we have different types of Baltic Sea cooperation. That is why it is also in this budget. If we are to invest in Latin America, we should not do so in Category 5; we should do so in the aid budget, which is Category 7. The Left Party does so by not doing as the Moderates and cutting in Swedish aid.
i-dae4e3061563066c-928	Madam President, I would like Nor could I fail to take a line on Håkan Svenneling when it comes to the Left Party's signal policy declaration. The signal seems to be: we are criticising Russia. But we also criticise the United States. And we are criticising the United States a little more, because we are also taking the opportunity to take a fight with the transatlantic link with the Atlantic Council, to which we do not want any closeness. That's a little bit of the message that's here. Of course, we stand up against racism and think it is important that the United States takes seriously that there should be changes, as the new President clearly signals. The fact that Sweden in this situation would sell itself as a financier to the Black Live math movement in some form in the United States seems like a very backward way, if we want to build relations with the United States and the new administration and take the fight together for democracy in Venezuela, Cuba, China, Russia and in too many other countries where it has really gone backwards. The ambition is now to come up with a major US democracy offensive from the new administration. That is something that we would affirm and seek cooperation about. This is indeed a policy that would require much more resources for the Swedish Institute to improve the Swedish image in other countries, should we go this way. Madam President, I would like I think this really is going backwards and not forwards.
i-dae4e3061563066c-934	Madam President, I would like I can begin by saying that we put forward the proposal to support the Black Live math movement from Sweden when it was most protesting in June, and we repeated it in connection with the budget work. Then the American elections took place. And after quite a long time we realized that Trump would not continue to be president but that it would instead become Joe Biden. That is positive, although I can see that Joe Biden is quite far to the right in the democratic party. He will conduct a foreign policy that might suit Kerstin Lundgren, but which I believe is based on the imperialist view that has existed in American foreign policy for a long time. We can see, for example, that Joe Biden voted for the Iraq war and so on. It makes me rather worried when I hear Biden's advisor say that the United States is going to push different countries where you want to go. This is a reversal compared to Trump, which means that we are going to have Europe on the track. You will not see Angela Merkel and the EU as opponents, but rather want to include Sweden in this pressure, among other things. I am a little worried that, in this line of thought about the transatlantic link, Sweden simply goes away and simply adapts too much to American foreign policy, which is essentially still imperialist. You see Latin America and that part of the world as your own backyard and hemisphere, where you continue with the blockade against Cuba that you have been doing for 60 years without much results. Here I would like to see another kind of democracy offensive, both from the Swedish side and from the US side. Then I think it is important to criticise the United States for the electoral system with different types of constituency that we now know more about than about the Swedish electoral system. It is very clear that the American electoral system lacks fundamental rights in terms of the right to vote, that election day is not free day so that you can go and vote and so on. This means that there are very justified criticisms of the United States. This criticism highlights the Left Party.
i-dae4e3061563066c-938	Madam President, I would like The Swedish support of SEK 50 million is really an interesting signal in such a conversation. I think we really need to see where we are targeting our resources. Speaking of Venezuela, which was raised in the last shift, I had a debate as recently as a week ago with the Foreign Minister. And Sweden and the EU are clear: there are no conditions for free and fair elections in Venezuela. Don't play it away. Don't play with Maduros's regime and that kind of regime's game with democracy. This is how democracy is dragged into the dirt. People feel that democracy doesn't matter. It's a game we're not supposed to be in. If we know that this choice will not be free and fair because the conditions are lacking, then we should not play along. Then let us be clear and make this clear in time, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs was happy to do.
i-dae4e3061563066c-941	Madam President, I would like The problem is that Kerstin Lundgren is perhaps the one who plays with. From day one, she has declared that it is Juan Guaidó who is the President of Venezuela, whether he is in real power or not. I can tell you that it is unfortunately Nicolá Maduro. He's committed a lot of crimes, according to the UN report. He has not held free and fair elections. And now on Sunday, it's time for elections again. We'll see if they're free and fair. There are some conditions that show that it can be just as Kerstin Lundgren says. Nevertheless, there is hope for dialogue before these elections. The problem has been that Juan Guaidó has just refused to attend. He keeps hoping for a military coup or for him to come to power all of a sudden. It is not conducive to democratic development. Venezuela has in practice become a frozen internal conflict in which the Venezuelan people are suffering not only under covid-19 but also under major humanitarian problems with health care, food shortages and the like. What we can do from the outside world is try to support democratic development in Venezuela. Then we must also accept that Mrs Maduro is present.
i-dae4e3061563066c-944	Madam President, I would like Initially, I would like to support the Christian Democrats' reservation 1. In the grant decision, the Christian Democrats refrain from taking a position. Around the world, Christian democracy stands for a value-based foreign policy. It is a policy aimed at strengthening peace and democratic development and contributing to understanding, reconciliation and human rights. Christian democratic foreign policy is an expression of the fact that we all have a responsibility for our neighbour. Human dignity is universal and can never be relativised from ethnicity or geographical boundaries. In the wake of the pandemic and the unstable situation around the world, it is crucial that we from Sweden take our share of responsibility for security and peace. Sweden will continue to support and contribute to joint efforts in peace promotion, security promotion and conflict prevention activities. We do this mainly by contributing to joint efforts in multilateral cooperation in the EU, the UN, NATO and the OSSE. Madam President, I would like In addition, foreign policy should promote free trade. Free trade and a market economy are the way forward for increased prosperity, and that is the tool for lifting people and communities out of poverty. At the same time, international trade agreements should be used to a greater extent than at present as a means of exerting pressure on authoritarian regimes that violate human rights. Hopefully, it can lead to more people getting a chance to live their lives in safety and safety. On the basis of these principles, Swedish foreign policy will promote Swedish interests in the outside world. Sweden should be an active player in the international collaboration bodies where we operate, from the Nordics to the European and global ones. And we shall help to ensure that these cooperations are carried out as effectively as possible. In order to use taxpayers' money in the most responsible way in the area of expenditure that we are discussing now, the Christian Democrats believe that the grant to the Swedish Institute and information about Sweden abroad should be reduced. In the field of promotion, there are today a number of actors, not least Swedish embassies and consulates around the world. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that funds should be redeployed from the Swedish Institute and the Swedish Institute for International Affairs to the grant for peace and security promotion activities, which we, unlike the government, want to raise. Madam President, I would like The central arena for Swedish foreign policy is the European Union. The EU's strength lies in the common core of values and in its historic capacity to cooperate and overcome contradictions. The fact that the EU Member States speak with one voice in foreign policy is essential – without unity, Europe's countries become players in the margins. Without closer foreign policy cooperation, Sweden's ability to contribute and make a difference is reduced. If the EU does not act otherwise. In the absence of a common European policy, we have seen countries such as Russia, China and Turkey advance their positions. Unfortunately, this weakens the work of democratic reform and human rights. We are seeing this today in countries such as Syria, Iran, Venezuela – which have been mentioned here – and also Cuba, to name a few examples. Madam President, I would like With fundamental values of human dignity, freedom and democracy, Swedish foreign policy must never compromise. When these values are now challenged by authoritarian regimes and violent Islamism, it is more urgent than before to build security and peace together with others. We do so within the framework of the EU, and we do so by strengthening our relationship and cooperation with our Nordic and Baltic neighbours. We do this by deepening the transatlantic link and relations with the defence alliance of Western democracies. Madam President, I would like NATO cooperation is not without problems. Developments in the Member State of Turkey are deeply worrying. At the same time, NATO has long been central to both our own security and that of Europe. The Christian Democrats maintain that Sweden should apply for membership as soon as possible. As the Secretary-General of NATO has made clear, there is a difference between being a member and being part of partnership cooperation. It is high time, Madam President, to take this seriously and start the process of full Swedish NATO membership.
i-dae4e3061563066c-959	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 4. We were reached today by the announcement that Joshua Wong, Agnes Chow and Ivan Lam have been sentenced to prison in Hong Kong. It was 13 months for Joshua, 10 months for Agnes and 7 months for Ivan Lam. These are three of the leading representatives of the democracy movement in Hong Kong. They have been condemned for arranging peaceful protests and for demanding freedom and redress. This is a way for China to try to delegitimate the struggle for freedom in Hong Kong. It is a way for China to further link the grip on Hong Kong, strengthen control and signal to other activists in Hong Kong what will happen to them if they raise the baton after the three people who are now imprisoned. It clearly demonstrates China's increasingly destructive, aggressive and expansionist policy – of course the actions and views of the Communist Party of China in particular. These judgments must be condemned, Madam President. They also show that Hong Kong's rule of law right now is a joke and that China's Communist Party continues to deny Hong Kong residents the rights and freedoms guaranteed by Hong Kong Basic Law and the memorandum that exists between Great Britain and China. Sweden and other free states must act to hold the Chinese Government responsible for these abuses. Of course, it is not just about these abuses, but the fact that I am referring to these three judgments is partly because they came today and partly because they show so clearly the nature of the Chinese regime. When we enlarge this to what is happening to the Uighurs in Xinjiang, for example, or to the attacks on Taiwan – which are so far only verbal, thankfully – as well as China's actions against the Tibetans and Tibet, and so on, we see what a threat China is today. At the same time, of course, we must pay tribute to all those people in Hong Kong who go out on the streets protesting and demanding their rights. Madam President, I would like I wanted to start my speech with this for the simple reason that what will determine much that world development over the next few decades is exactly what is happening in China – and not least how democratic countries in the world are able to face the threat that China is increasingly posing. Otherwise, our foreign policy from the Swedish side has been focused for many years on our eastern neighbour Russia, who has also acted very destructively. Russia has occupied our neighbours, expressed threats to Sweden and in recent years practiced militarily in a way that poses a threat to us. We see Russia's actions in Georgia, in Crimea, in Eastern Ukraine and so on. Russia and China together are the most crucial problem complex that the free world has to deal with and respond to, and we must unite to manage this in the future – hopefully in a peaceful way, of course. Then we have a number of other challenges that are important for Sweden in our foreign and security policy, as well as, of course, for our development policy. Climate change is one of those. The fall in a number of states close to Europe is another. This is true in the Middle East region, Syria and Yemen. This applies in North Africa, Libya, the Sahel region, Sudan, South Sudan and, in recent weeks, Tigray province in northern Ethiopia. There are a number of conflicts and challenges that, in turn, risk increasing migratory flows and causing large flows of refugees, terrorism, intolerable conditions in refugee camps and so on – such as epidemics and much more. Of course, on this we have the pandemic we are now seeing. This combined, and not least the fact that a number of large countries in the world today are led by very authoritarian and destructive leaders, means that many of the advances we have seen in the world over the past 30 to 40 years are under threat. The world is now stepping back on freedom and rights, freedom of expression and so on. Just to look back a little: in the 1980s, the whole of Latin America, except Cuba, was democratized in practice. We saw India growing up and democratising, and we saw countries in East Asia that were coping with severe financial crises and other things but were still building democracy. We saw free elections in several African countries where leaders resigned voluntarily when they lost, and the apartheid system disappeared. Pinochet disappeared, and above all communism disappeared in Eastern Europe. It was enormous progress that led to the optimism we saw in the 1990s, when I started to engage politically, and today we are increasingly seeing countries and various processes that interact in different ways hurling the world back in time. With the pandemic, this also applies on an economic level. The area of expenditure in the state budget that we are now debating is, of course, purely financial and monetary, a small area of expenditure; it covers only 2 billion. But herein there is much of research and of support to various organisations and international organisations that Sweden is active in and in different ways has to deal with these very big issues. This means that Sweden, as a free state and as a state committed to free trade, international cooperation and democracy, must advance its positions. Next year there will be an opportunity to do so within the OSSE, where Sweden will be the country holding the presidency. But Sweden should also do so within the European Union and demand more reform in the UN, make tougher demands on recipients of aid and much more. Liberal foreign policy is based on a very important observation, namely that it is impossible to build democracy if there are no democrats. There are countries that have tried to build democracy, although it has not been democrats who have pushed these processes forward; it does not end well. Czechoslovakia became two democracies – the Czech Republic and Slovakia – after the Cold War, but Belarus did not become a democracy. The difference was that there was a stronger democracy movement in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. For this reason, the objective of democracy and support for building democracy and for investing in individuals must guide Swedish foreign policy.
i-dae4e3061563066c-971	Madam President, I would like Ensuring Sweden's interest in relations with other countries is the objective of Category 5, which we are currently debating. What, then, is Sweden's international interest? Yes, democracy, the rule of law and respect for international law are at the heart of this. Securing Swedish interests is about Sweden, which is a small country in terms of population but a fairly large country geographically, being dependent on a world community that functions and international institutions and organisations that function. It is in Sweden's interest that borders should not be moved by attack or war. If they are to be moved, it will be done through political decisions and diplomatic negotiations. That is why it is important to invest in disarmament and diplomacy, and that is why it is important to invest in peace-building and security-promoting measures. In this work, the EU is Sweden's most important political arena for Swedish foreign policy. We will be chairing the OSSE, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe over the coming year, as several have mentioned here. It is an organisation with 57 Member States working precisely for security in Europe. This is essential and vital for Sweden. It is, of course, an honorary task, but it is also a great job that lies ahead of the Swedish Government and the Swedish Foreign Minister. This work will take much of our attention and is one of the things to be funded in this area of expenditure. Our work at the UN is another part of this. Many associate the UN with international efforts. We often spend quite a lot of time and effort here in Parliament discussing and formulating how we should make decisions on the military operations we participate in internationally. There are a few operations in which we participate – in total, Sweden participates in approximately 50 different international military or civilian operations. I think that one should feel a great pride in the commitment that Sweden has and that the people who participate in this work have. If international work depends on large institutions such as the UN and the EU, it is at home that it begins with Nordic cooperation, where the common Nordic goal is that the Nordic region will become the world's most sustainable and integrated region. After the last few months of covid-19-pandemia, we can see that we may have some work to do in front of us, to put it mildly, before we get there. The last half-year may not have been the best moment of Nordic cooperation that we have seen, but it is still important to work on this. While we are talking about the close – where the work begins – it is also about the Baltic Sea region. It is the common sea, with many countries around it, which is very poor in environmental terms and which, in terms of safety, is a very tense place on earth. Baltic Sea cooperation is important for Sweden, for the environment and for safety. It is also part of international cooperation that is being funded in this area of expenditure. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-dae4e3061563066c-979	Madam President, I would like This year's resolution 1325 on women, peace and security is its 20th anniversary. This is a resolution that I know the President, among other things, is passionate about – she often brings it up in different contexts. During the year, there have been a number of reports – mainly from civil society, such as Kvinna till Kvinna and Operation 1325, but also the government has actually carried out its own evaluation that will be presented shortly. The reports send a rather clear message: Resolution 1325 has been crucial to raising women, peace and security on the agenda. This was something that we in Sweden benefited from during our time in the Security Council. At the same time, it is clear that the implementation of the 1325 objectives is not sufficient. Anyone who looks at where the focus has been in the implementation sees that it has been quite distorted. It has often landed in counting heads and how many military and police officers are women in various international efforts rather than having qualitative goals for how it is possible to implement the resolution. Sweden has a feminist government. It's something I'm proud of, even if I'm in opposition. But this epithet obliges, and I therefore wonder what Kenneth G. Forslund, as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and one of the leading Social Democrats, believes needs to be done to improve the implementation of 1325. I was going to be so insolent, Madam President, that I made my own proposal. In our budget motion, we in the Left Party have proposed the creation of a Swedish ambassador for precisely Resolution 1325. I think this would increase the pressure and strengthen the implementation. The government appoints this kind of ambassadors closely; most recently this year we have seen how an ambassador has been appointed against – not for – organised crime. Now the next feminist step needs to be taken, and a feminist ambassador for resolution 1325 needs to be set up. What does Kenneth G. Forslund think about this?
i-dae4e3061563066c-985	Madam President, I would like Ambassador for the work against organised crime – if you use the slightly long label, you get the prepositions fixed so that you don't slip crazy. I've slipped crazy in those words myself. It is certainly an interesting idea to appoint a special ambassador for the 1325 work. At the same time, it is important not to say that this is something that a single person can solve. This is a great and wide-ranging work, which must be done both politically and diplomatically. I feel that we have broad support for this in the Swedish Parliament. We have worked well for many years in the Foreign Affairs Committee and in the composite foreign and defence committees in the field of international military operations in order for it to be training for our own staff and for the staff to also carry this out in the operations together with the soldiers of other countries on the ground and for it to really reach the farthest out of the operations to women in the areas where the operations operate. It is the government's task to appoint ambassadors, as Håkan Svenneling very well knows. It is not something that the Riksdag should decide for the government. The idea is absolutely interesting, and it is not at all unthinkable that, over time, an ambassador with this particular responsibility can also be appointed. But even if that happens, it is important to remember that it must not be an excuse for others to think that this is now resolved, that now we have an ambassador and let it handle it. The collective responsibility for working with this will remain broad, strategic and long-term, although such an ambassador would be appointed by the government.
i-dae4e3061563066c-989	Madam President, I would like I agree with much of Kenneth G. Forslund's reasoning. I think it is important to send the Social Democratic and Environmental Party Government that it is not enough just to revise its action plan now, but also to study what more can be done. Appointing an ambassador is one of the things you could do. It's important that the government thinks about this. It is also important to clearly link the agenda with women's economy and the inequality that we are looking at around the world, where a few rich billionaires own more than the whole of Africa's female population. We also all need to take responsibility, just as Kenneth G. Forslund is concerned about. And here I and Kenneth G Forslund have a great responsibility to change the male norm in society and in the world at large. It is important to highlight the role of men in the implementation of the Women's, Peace and Security Agenda. Here I mean that we all need to step up and take greater responsibility.
i-dae4e3061563066c-993	Madam President, I would like It is difficult to have any different opinion from Håkan Svenneling in what he is presenting now. The work must continue. It is a collective work for both women and men, for us politically elected, for our officials in the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, for our personnel who are deployed in civilian or military operations and in our work at the UN. In our work, wherever we are, it is important to keep asking the question where women are and to assert women's rights to always participate, be respected and operate on equal terms.
i-dae4e3061563066c-994	Madam President, I would like Both in last year's debate on Category 5 and in this debate, some consular matters have been mentioned. It is usually within the framework of international cooperation that this type of case can be solved through cooperation. We have a case that is currently under discussion, a Swedish citizen, Ahmadreza Djalali, who is in prison in Iran. According to reports from Amnesty and other organizations, he risks being executed any day, not to say any hour. This has been the case for a number of years. Djalali and his family have received strong support, not least from international organisations such as Amnesty International, Scholar at Risk, Karolinska Institutet, the European Parliament and a large number of Nobel laureates who have engaged in his case. All the various organisations have made clear demands for the release of Ahmadreza Djalali. However, the Swedish Government or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will stand out in this collection by not demanding the release of the Swedish citizen Djalalis.
i-H5fK7rujqr39Q2cMnJzw1D	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Adaktusson, for the question! In fact, I was called only a few hours ago by an Iranian acquaintance who had information that what was said yesterday that Djalali would be transferred to the prison where it is expected that the death sentence would not be carried out. It is a small, little light of hope in this miserable history. What Sweden is constantly working for, and which I myself have also addressed in my contacts with various Iranian representatives for a relatively long time, is that this death penalty should not be carried out. This is what the Swedish Government has focused its work on in terms of contacts with Iran. That is also what I have addressed myself in various contacts. We are always against the death penalty, no matter who is being subjected to them. And we always work from the Swedish side especially with consular support when it comes to people with Swedish citizenship who risk the death penalty. We will continue to do so. We do so in this case and in any other case.
i-dae4e3061563066c-1001	Madam President, I would like I have asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs the same question: why do the government and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs not demand the release of Djalalis? I didn't get an answer then, and I didn't get an answer now from Kenneth G. Forslund. Instead, there was an explanation as to why we are opposed to the death penalty. And that is obviously important, but it is not an answer to the question. There are other questions that are serious in dealing with this case, for example that Sweden has not contacted those countries that have offered to help through their diplomatic channels in Tehran. One of these countries is the United States, other countries are Switzerland and Belgium. None of these countries have been contacted by the Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In a situation where a Swedish citizen is in danger of being executed in one of the world's worst dictatorships, I think that every chance must be taken to save his life.
i-dae4e3061563066c-1004	Madam President, I would like The information about which countries Sweden has or has not been in contact with when it comes to getting help in this case I do not have knowledge of. I assume that there is broad work to gather support. After all, we have seen statements from various quarters in support of his not being executed. Since exactly which countries have been or have not been contacted, I do not have any information about.
i-dae4e3061563066c-1005	Madam President, I would like Kenneth G. Forslund said in his speech that borders should not be moved by attack, but should be moved by agreements and in a peaceful way. Yeah, I guess everybody agrees. At the same time, Forslund says that we should focus more on disarmament and democracy. In fact, I make a small connection with a man who, when he came from Germany for over 80 years, said: Peace in our time. I have to tell you honestly, that sounds a little naive. I look forward to my suspicion being made clear when Kenneth G. Forslund answers my reply. We see that the threat is increasing from the east and that there are movements from Russia that affect Sweden and Swedish territory and our surrounding world in a way that has not slowed down since the corresponding debate last year. We do not decide for other countries that they should not cross the border or violate Sweden, but we must be prepared when other countries have decided to do so. The Baltic Sea region is worried about safety, and so did Kenneth G. Forslund. I would like to ask: is there anything that has happened recently that has sharpened the view on the threat from the East?
i-dae4e3061563066c-1010	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Rothenberg for the questions. What I said was that border movement should not take place through attack or war, and if borders are to be moved, it should be done through political decisions and diplomatic negotiations. Mr Rothenberg contrasts this with the efforts made on disarmament. This month we will be making decisions in the Swedish Parliament on a historic rearmament of the Swedish defence. We have to go back to the 50's or even further to find a similar great military rearmament in Swedish defence history. So it is not a pacifist message about Swedish total disarmament when I talk about Sweden's disarmament efforts. These disarmament efforts are focused on continuing to disarm nuclear weapons in the world. It is a very important piece of work that has unfortunately stopped and in which various disarmament agreements tend to fall rather than be renewed and improved at the moment. In this perspective, it is extremely important to work with disarmament. It is primarily about nuclear weapons, but not creating new types of weapons of mass destruction is also an important piece of work in this. Mr Rothenberg also asks whether the danger situation around us has been tightened up. Yes, it has. We see Russia attacking neighbouring countries in a way that is totally unacceptable, and of course we have taken the impression of that.
i-9iP3JtXXWPHi59HRP7dja1	Madam President, I would like I thank Kenneth G. Forslund for the clarification. The entire defence bill is based on the assumption that we will be assisted by NATO countries before or in the event of an armed attack. It is the design of the defence, not the freedom of military alliance. We must be prepared for Sweden's borders to be violated more or less seriously. Then we are also dependent on cooperation. The government says that military alliance freedom serves Sweden well and dismisses any thought of discussing and considering the issue of membership of NATO at all. It is a membership that would mean that, in this enhanced situation, we will have defence guarantees from countries with which we want and need to cooperate. How is it connected to consistently saying no to being a part of NATO and at the same time expecting them to stand up for Sweden?
i-dae4e3061563066c-1019	Madam President, I would like Together with Finland, Sweden cooperates very closely with NATO. It works well and is appreciated by all three parties. In addition, Sweden now has, through the work of Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist, a palette of various bilateral and trilateral cooperation agreements with both NATO countries and non-NATO countries. We have a security policy line in which we say that if any country in our neighbourhood is attacked, we will be in solidarity with it, and we expect corresponding solidarity back if we are to be attacked. This is not the same as NATO's Article 5 and the automatic guarantee that exists there. There are differences. A Swedish NATO membership would increase uncertainty for Sweden and increase uncertainty in the Baltic Sea region and in our part of Europe. That would be bad.
i-dae4e3061563066c-1023	Madam President, I would like Today, in this House, we are talking about international cooperation and the objective of safeguarding Sweden's interests in relations with other countries. We are guided by a number of fine principles: democracy, human rights, the principles of the rule of law, dialogue and mediation, peace and security, and equality through a feminist foreign policy. In addition, we have Agenda 2030, the world's common target document on how to cope with the climate crisis and biodiversity, while at the same time providing people around the world with opportunities for a better life with education and greater social justice. Madam President, I would like The year we soon put behind us did not turn out as we intended. Since the discovery of a new viral disease almost a year ago, much has changed. Nor could anyone imagine what this year would carry, not only a global pandemic that puts people's lives and health at risk, but also a number of crises in the coronas. There are many of us who have said it time and again, but it is worth saying again: A crisis never strikes equally. It is already the most vulnerable who are most affected, and it is in vulnerable societies that the advance of the pandemic is most evident. It is about economic decline, lack of education and a fight against poverty that has been thrown back in time for at least ten years. Then it's not a good time to back off. Then we must step forward and once again state that major, global challenges are best dealt with together. Madam President, I would like Alone is not strong. Alone is only alone. Peace and security are built together with others in several ways and arenas. We do so within the framework of the UN, the EU, the Council of Europe, the OECD and others – and now also in the OSSE as future President. The role of the UN cannot be overestimated, and Sweden's contribution is important. Through active participation in the process of change and strong core support for many UN organisations, Sweden also has a stronger voice than our size would otherwise have justified. Since dialogue and mediation, security and peace are guiding principles for Sweden, the UN's capacity building and peace-promoting work is also an area where Sweden participates and contributes. Sweden has also worked to make the UN better equipped to meet new security challenges, such as links between climate change, food security and instability. I'll also say a few words about the North. We wholeheartedly support the ambition of the Nordic prime ministers that the Nordic region should be the world's most sustainable and integrated region and that the Nordic collaboration must be strengthened so that we are better equipped in the next crisis. I think we all thought we were closer than the crisis showed. Let us therefore make it a strength and work even harder forward to make the goal real. As several have previously stated, the EU is our most important foreign policy arena. Here we work actively for climate, human rights and democracy. The battle for the basic principles and the budget must therefore be won in order for us to continue as a Union together. Madam President, I would like In this House, we are sitting in free and democratic elections, which have won the confidence of the Swedish people to represent them. This freedom is not all granted. In Belarus, the demonstrations against the illegitimate leader Lukasjenko continue, and in Poland people are getting out of the house so that the last little bit of the fundamental human right to have their own body should not be lost in barbaric legislation. Freedom, democracy and human rights go hand in hand. They are not only worth fighting for but also defending. It is appalling, but the fact is that democracy in the world is in decline. It is a truth that stings but at the same time a clear proof that our work is needed. What Sweden does in the world is not only important here and now, but for a long time to come. Much of our work internationally is about that, and although it is not easy to measure, we know that if good forces do not merge, everything would look even worse. If no one is there to support opposition and civil society, the battle would be lost before it begins. We will face the resistance and totalitarian forces with freedom and openness. But we must not ignore the fact that those who disagree, those who want to restrict democracy and human rights, are also playing in other arenas. We must pay more attention to this. I am therefore pleased that the Swedish Institute is also working to counter and counteract misinformation. If the image of Sweden is different than it really should be, we risk losing influence. Therefore, misinformation is also a dangerous threat. We all remember Last night in Sweden and the picture that was put at that time by many, although it also got a lot of resistance and positive forces went against. Madam President, I would like The implementation of Agenda 2030 is central to the world's development, and strong international institutions are central to its implementation. In the wake of the Corona crisis, large parts of the world are facing new and even greater challenges, and just as the work of democracy has had a backlash in the wake of the pandemic, so has the fight against poverty. This is where no government can stand, but the time to act strongly is now. Feminist foreign policy is not something we just say, but also something we do. It is reflected in all the policies of this government, and it is values that we take with us into all international spaces. As developments progress, it does not happen by itself. The same applies when women's rights are rolled back. It does not happen in a vacuum but is done by men with power who repeatedly do everything they can to push women back. Against these movements and against these men, our foreign policy is a clear and strong counterweight. Sweden gives feminism a place in the international fine rooms, and I am incredibly proud of that. Together with movements for peace and gender equality around the world, we will be able to move mountains and shake on aging structures. It is important that we go ahead and create room for others to follow. I will continue to point out the feminist foreign policy in every context where Sweden's international commitments are discussed – not only because I am a feminist myself, but also because gender equality is a prerequisite for achieving the other goals of Agenda 2030 and for us to achieve peace and security in the world. Madam President, I would like The challenges are many. The Corona crisis will not make the way forward easier, but vice versa. We have more conflicts than we have had since the late 80s, and old trouble spots have flared up with a lot of human suffering as a result. Many people are on the run and have nowhere to go. Climate change and the decline of democracy in many places reinforce the precarious situation. Uncertainty creates the risk of even more wars and conflicts. We in the Green Party believe that Sweden should sign the Nuclear Weapons Convention to take further steps in our work on disarmament and non-proliferation. Now the Convention enters into force, and Sweden becomes an observer. That is good, because we have a history of peace-building and disarmament. That is something we must continue to work on. Much must be done, and Sweden's role in the world is important. The budget on the table allows us to work hard forward to be part of the solutions, both as an active partner and as a front country. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-dae4e3061563066c-1043	Madam President, I would like Janine Alm Ericson gave a very good speech in many parts. I agree with a lot of things. At the end, she took the opportunity to engage in disarmament and specifically nuclear disarmament and the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention. I welcome the message given by the Green Party that they wish to accede to the Convention. Unfortunately, they are in a government that has decided not to accede to the Convention at the moment, but to become an observer and a state partner. It is quite important at the stage at which we are now in. The Convention has received 50 signatories. It will enter into force on 22 January. This means that a meeting will be held within a year. It is likely that a conference will take place sometime in the autumn of 2021. Everything indicates that it will happen in Vienna, which is the capital or headquarters of these kinds of issues. The Swedish government has a huge responsibility to define the role of state partner. This is the first meeting. This is where we should start from the 50 countries that have signed up to the Convention, but also all the countries that are present as observers. There will be a huge difference between whether Sweden sends a person there and listens and whether Sweden actively participates with an agenda and tries to make the changes already highlighted in the 2017 explanation of vote. Therefore, I wonder how Janine Alm Ericson views Sweden's role in disarmament and what the government intends to do in 2021 to push the convention and agenda forward. We know that we will have an NTP conference next August. Sweden has its own stepping stones approach, which I am a bit hesitant about from the point of view that it is not so super clear in pushing the agenda forward. But I want to hear what Janine Alm Ericson thinks and thinks.
i-dae4e3061563066c-1047	Madam President, I would like It is incredibly important that Sweden is still at the forefront of disarmament work in the world in all the arenas that exist and in all the rooms where these issues are discussed, so that we also have a strategic effort to get disarmament in place. Unfortunately, we see that developments are going in the wrong direction here too. It is agreements that are being broken and states that seem to have no ambition whatsoever in this direction anymore. It's incredibly developing. I cannot today give Håkan Svenneling an answer exactly how we will do it, but the Green Party will do everything to ensure that we have as clear a voice as it is possible only in all the areas where disarmament is being discussed.
i-dae4e3061563066c-1049	Madam President, I would like It is a welcome but somewhat unprecise message from the Green Party today. You still have to take that with you. I think it is important to be clear that this is the first convention to come into force that Sweden is not signatories to. It's a historic mistake, I mean. But now the mistake has taken place, and we have to adapt to the situation. I am absolutely convinced that the Green Party has a role to play as a government partner to the Social Democrats. You've been a little too passive. But I have seen good trends, particularly from Janine Alm Ericson, in pushing the government on various foreign policy issues. You have a great responsibility here. In 2021 you need to take that responsibility, both when Sweden goes to the NTP conference and when we go as an observer at the conference linked to the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention.
i-dae4e3061563066c-1052	Madam President, I would like I can't help but agree with Håkan Svenneling. I will do everything I can to make that work as powerful, strategic and developing as possible.
i-33JLcfYeLJhGoqe2vq5v6u	Madam President, I would like I support the Christian Democrats' reservation number 1. We are debating Category 5 International collaboration, whose budget amounts to approximately SEK 2 billion to be used to strengthen Sweden's interests in the world. Sweden shall conduct a value-based foreign policy aimed at strengthening peace, freedom and development, as well as understanding, reconciliation and human rights. Our foreign policy is an expression of the fact that we all have a responsibility for each other, an expression that is fundamental to Christian Democratic ideology. That is why freedom, security and democracy, as well as human rights and freedoms, must be the main objective of foreign policy. Sweden will continue to contribute to both established and new efforts in peace promotion, security promotion and conflict prevention activities. Our presence and efforts in Afghanistan, Iraq and Mali, for example, make a difference to people living and working in these countries. Madam President, I would like We have a duty to help people in need, no matter where in the world they are, and to defend human rights. In addition, foreign policy should also promote trade and sustainable development. Free trade and a market economy are the way forward to increase prosperity and lift people out of poverty. Based on these basic principles, foreign policy should promote Swedish interests in the outside world. Madam President, I would like The EU is and will be the central forum for Swedish foreign and security policy. The EU's strength lies in a foreign policy based on standards and values. As one of the world's largest economies, the world's largest trading partners and the world's largest donors, the EU has the opportunity to influence world development through a variety of channels. The fact that the EU speaks with one voice in foreign policy is essential in order to safeguard the interests of the Member States and to help stabilise and reform nations and regions in both direct and indirect proximity to the EU in terms of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Madam President, I would like Despite developments in Belarus with violence and torture against peaceful demonstrators, Cyprus blocked the EU's previously agreed sanction regime. This is because Cyprus also wanted to see stronger sanctions against Turkey in the context of the conflict over natural resources in the eastern Mediterranean. The two conflicts really have nothing to do with each other, but Cyprus was able to stop the EU's action against the dictatorship in Minsk because of its right of veto. The EU's failure to highlight and put pressure on the powers in Belarus is the latest of several examples that underline the importance of Sweden's support for the Commission's call for the abolition of the right of individual Member States to veto foreign policy, such as positions on human rights. Madam President, I would like Political and economic aid to democracy fighters and civil society in Belarus must be broadened. In concrete terms, it is a matter of publicly expressing support for the opposition and clearly demanding that dictator Lukasjenko give up power. The coordination council set up must receive moral and financial support so that it can continue its work and bring about a peaceful change of power in Belarus and democratic development in the country. Madam President, I would like Sweden and the EU must also highlight Turkey's increasingly aggressive foreign policy and demand for power in the eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East and continue to support Ukraine, safeguard its territorial sovereignty and act against Russian aggression against Ukraine. Through trade restrictions, targeted restrictions and the freezing of the assets of persons, businesses and authorities, the EU can defend freedom, democracy and human rights. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, there are too many examples of innocent Swedes who are imprisoned around the world without proper legal redress and trial. In some cases, the method of quiet diplomacy, which is widely regarded, does not work in andr a. In cases where it does not work, Sweden through the EU and the UN must act vigorously with other means. Examples of such cases are journalist Dawit Isaak in Eritrea, publisher Gui Minhai in China and doctor and researcher Ahmadreza Djalali who has recently been sentenced to death in Iran. These Swedes should be released immediately and reunited with their families in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Priority needs to be given to combating repression of minorities or dissident groups. Too many people are being persecuted today for their faith and driven away from their homes under the most repulsive threats. Christians in the Middle East and in some African countries are particularly vulnerable. Their situation has deteriorated dramatically since the so-called Arab spring started in 2010 and Islamic groups have gained stronger influence in a number of societies. Madam President, I would like In the civil war in Syria and through the progress of the Islamic State in Syria and Iraq, people have been killed and their right to life and dignity violated. The Christian Democrats through Lars Adaktusson were the driving force for the recognition of Islamic State genocide in 2014 on Christians and Yazidians in Iraq. The resolution on the recognition of this genocide, which was previously adopted in the European Parliament, should also be followed by the Swedish Government. Sweden must now do everything to ensure that criminals are held accountable and justice is done. Madam President, I would like In the same way, the Swedish government should follow the 2010 parliamentary decision and recognise the 1915 Seyfo genocide, which occurred during the fall of the Ottoman Empire in Turkey and where more than 1.5 million Syrians, Armenians and others from Christian communities were murdered.
i-dae4e3061563066c-1069	Madam President, I would like With regard to this area of expenditure, we have proposed an extended framework compared to the one already adopted and therefore do not participate in the decision under paragraph 1. With regard to Category 5, we see international cooperation as central to ensuring Sweden's interests in relations with other countries. Although the coronapandemia is not over, Sweden's actions at the beginning of the pandemic and continue to cause a lot of international criticism, which has damaged Sweden's reputation. During the year, the Swedish Institute has paid attention to very negative foreign media reporting. For example, Sweden was called pariastat in an article in the New York Times, which spread hugely around the world. And Der Spiegel, one of Europe's largest news magazines, wondered in October whether Sweden has sacrificed the elderly. Such things, of course, harm the country's reputation. It is therefore important to re-establish the previously extensive international cooperation and confidence in Sweden. We also want to enable the establishment of new partnerships through the Swedish Institute with a focus on women leaders in countries where there are gaps in gender equality. In order for the Swedish Institute to be able to succeed with these assignments, we allocate increased funding to the Swedish Institute in our draft budget. As far as Nordic cooperation is concerned, Madam President, we want to strengthen it. Our countries have a lot in common, and Nordic cooperation has worked very well for a long time. Nordic cooperation, with its friendly, mutually beneficial character, has provided good conditions for valuable exchanges in areas such as trade, technology and defence. But also in the field of cultural education, we see an interest in promoting cooperation from the Swedish side. In a globalised world, we want to do what we can to strengthen Nordic identity and broaden and deepen Nordic cooperation. In order to improve inter-ordic language understanding and support cultural exchange efforts, we allocate additional funds to this. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has previously noted that the Inspection for Strategic Products has difficulty recruiting employees with expertise in the export control area. In the military field in particular, it is difficult to recruit and retain specialist skills due to the general growth of this sector. The Authority is also given new tasks under the provisions on foreign direct investment. We therefore want to increase the allocation to the ISP to ensure such competence. Finally, Madam President, when Sweden is taking over the OSSE Presidency, it is important that we use that position in the best and most constructive way. An important issue is the very difficult situation in the southern Caucasus between Armenia and Azerbaijan, where terrible abuses have taken place, not least from the Azerbaijani side, with Turkish backing. The agreement concluded almost a month ago shows that the exchange of prisoners, both military and civilian, and bodies should take place. Nevertheless, we have seen Azerbaijan delaying this and not allowing the Armenians to bring their countrymen home. Here, Sweden can play a very important role, and I assume that this opportunity will be used.
