i-535baf70240ede52-8	Mr President, I would like to There are many who are deeply concerned about their own health and their loved ones. The Corona crisis is first and foremost a human crisis in which health and life are at stake. It is therefore extremely important measures that are now being implemented to curb the spread of infection and strengthen health care. We have already been clear in the past that regions and municipalities will be compensated by the state for all health-related additional costs related to the Corona virus, and last week there was a major contribution to the welfare of municipalities and regions. Today, the Riksdag decides to abolish the amount of the student allowance. This means that students can now stop their studies in order to work in socially important professions, such as health care and long-term care. In addition, resources for the National Board of Health and Welfare will be increased by up to SEK 5 billion to secure access to protective equipment, intensive care equipment and other medical equipment. We also see a need to increase the number of tests as a matter of urgency. It is not only a question of curbing the spread of infection, but also of avoiding a major loss of health care personnel and other socially important activities. That is why we are adding an additional EUR 1 billion to the budget for subsidies for public health and health care. Mr President, I would like to However, many are also concerned about the economic situation and the impact of the crisis on jobs and businesses. Last Monday, the Employment Service announced that approximately 50 000 people have been alerted since 1 March. The number of newly registered unemployed last week was higher than in any single week during the financial crisis. It says something about the magnitude of what we are facing. Many are now concerned that their security will be broken in the wake of the Corona crisis. Government and parliament have therefore taken very strong measures in recent weeks to protect Swedish jobs and companies. Short-term lay-offs have been introduced, which means that companies can allow their employees to fall sharply in working hours while the state accounts for the large part of the wage cost. Employers' contributions have been reduced for all employers, with particular emphasis on small and medium-sized enterprises. The state also takes over the responsibility for sickness pay and can thus lift costs from the companies in this difficult situation. Today, we also decide on resources for rent support, where the state will provide money to enable landlords to temporarily reduce rents for traders in particularly vulnerable sectors. SEK 1 billion is also proposed for sports and cultural life – sectors that have been severely and rapidly affected by the Corona virus. However, despite the historic measures that are now being implemented, we know that taxpayers will not be able to save all jobs in all companies. Therefore, measures are also needed to strengthen the security of those who now lose their jobs or who have already lost them. Unemployment insurance is important to safeguard the income of those affected by the economic effects of the Corona virus and to sustain purchasing power in the economy. We want people to be able to pay their bills. You should be able to pay the interest on your loans, pay the rent and pay for the food on the table. That is why we are deciding here today on important measures to strengthen unemployment insurance and make it available to more people. Firstly, the membership conditions should be relaxed and the working conditions made easier to achieve. Since there are too many people in the Swedish labour market who have precarious employment, changes are needed to ensure that those people are also covered by the security provided by unemployment insurance. Secondly, an increase in the basic amount of insurance is proposed, from SEK 365 to SEK 510 per day, and the ceiling is raised to SEK 1,200. Thirdly, it abolishes the withdrawal days and, not least, improves the possibilities for self-employed workers to receive unemployment benefits. All in all, the efforts we are presenting in response to the crisis have blown the 100-billion-dollar rampart into direct government costs. We have also provided guarantees and credit for more than SEK 550 billion. Nevertheless, there is, of course, a willingness to do even more. Mr President, I would like to Many are concerned about infection, disease, and jobs and finances. We have a very difficult time ahead of us. But Sweden is strong, with robust public finances, and we are implementing strong measures to get through the crisis. Money should not stand in the way of health care's important work, and we defend jobs and businesses with hundreds of billions. By strengthening unemployment insurance, we also improve the financial security of those who are now losing their job. We're gonna get through this together. We will do it as a society, and once we have done so, we will revitalise Sweden again. I support the proposal of the Committee on Finance.
i-535baf70240ede52-21	Mr President, I would like to Spring has come to many places in Sweden, even here to Stockholm. The sun shines, and when you look out you can almost think that everything is exactly as usual. But it's not. Sweden is at war. It is not a war where another country is the enemy, but it is a war against a virus that we cannot even see with the naked eye. Healthcare personnel are now in the front line as our soldiers. They are brave and persistent women and men who work long hours under tough conditions and do their utmost to help others. All of us help them best by doing our utmost to reduce the spread of infection. This is for real. There's nothing going on far away. It's not happening to anyone else, it's happening here and now. In hospitals, health centres and nursing homes, people are fighting for their lives right now – around the clock. To those of you who do not listen to the guidelines and who may shrug their shoulders to the advice: You risk not only your own health, but you risk infecting others. If you become ill and need a place in health care, there may be others who need it even better. If many people get seriously ill at the same time, we can end up in a situation where the health care system is having difficulty. That is why, Mr President, this is not a time for egoism. This is a time of responsibility. We're not going to put others in danger. Instead, we're all going to help. Together we can do this. Mr President, I would like to The effects of this virus also strike right into the Swedish economy. That is why, here in Parliament today, we are once again deciding on an additional amending budget. That's good. We are now working constructively and quickly; legislative proposals that normally may take weeks or months to work on here in Parliament now go in just a few days. Today, for example, we are deciding on major and temporary changes to the unemployment fund. They'll take effect as early as next week. But even if we are working at a very fast pace, there are many outside this house, around the country, who would like it to go even faster. I am thinking of all those who have lost jobs e.g. serving staff, industrial workers, hotel staff, consultants, hairdressers and many more. I am also thinking of the family businesses which, after several generations, are now at the brink of ruin, extremely close to going bankrupt any day. The stories are countless, and they are sad. In the middle of the spring sun it is night black in a lot of places. Thousands lose their jobs. Just last week, 25 000 people signed up for the Employment Service; there are more than in any week during the financial crisis. There are many bankruptcies. Also viable and successful companies are being knocked out – companies whose services and products are in demand by all of us normally. These companies are in no way deserving of this very thing. They are not eliminated by competitors. It is not a question of structural change in the ordinary sense, nor is it a financial crisis. Rather, it is a virus that breaks down normally strong and viable companies. Mr President, I would like to What we are now experiencing in the economy is extraordinary, and that is why extraordinary efforts are needed. I am convinced that we must do everything we can to save Swedish jobs and Swedish companies and get jobs and companies to overwinter the acute crisis. I believe that the government and support parties need to change their strategy and dare to invest more for jobs. If we do not do this, the cost to individual entrepreneurs and wage earners as well as to society as a whole will be vastly higher. This is why we Moderates have presented a strategy rescheduling that means that the government will invest SEK 100 billion in April and May to overcome the acute crisis, including by abolishing employers' and social security contributions entirely. This also includes the fact that the state compensates for loss of income to cover fixed costs for the companies that are now most affected, and so we are now proposing full-time lay-off. Why do we propose this? Well, because when the spread of the disease settles, we want to retain as much of the Swedish business community as possible – as many companies and jobs – as it is only possible. They're going to overwinter. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, Parliament has in a short time made many wise and important decisions. We have done this together. Today, we are going to take a decision to temporarily make it easier for more people to get unemployment benefits. We also make the unemployment fund more generous. The goal of the Moderates will always be that as few as possible should need unemployment benefit and that we should save as many jobs as possible. That's where the focus needs to be. At the same time, however, many people have lost their jobs and many will, regardless of what crisis measures we are taking. That is why, of course, we must also protect the employees who are now affected. For the Moderates, today's decision on the unemployment fund is important for two main reasons. One is that in a deep economic crisis there are not many jobs to apply for. The second is that this is also a good way of sustaining demand and the economy in individual households and thus helping to save other jobs. Mr President, I would like to However, I would like to make it clear that these changes in the rules are temporary, as we also agree here today. In connection with this report, we are also making decisions on aid for the rental costs of companies and on changing rules for student aid. If you jump in and work extra in the care, you should not be punished for it, but you should be rewarded. This is another reason to call for the proposal and the proposal in the report to be approved. All in all, Mr President, the measures adopted today by Parliament are good. However, more will be needed.
i-535baf70240ede52-42	Mr President, I would like to Never have so many Swedes lost their jobs as in March 2020 – 36 800 people have been announced. In order to put it in proportion, at most 20 000 people were given notice during a single month during the financial crisis. Then it was industry and construction that were affected; now it is the hotel and restaurant industry that is hit particularly hard and that accounts for 40 per cent of the notice. We also see major reductions in other tourism industries and in trade. In some parts of the private services sector, we can even see 90% reductions in demand. These are remarkably dark figures. Mr President, I would like to The government has presented several stimulus packages to mitigate the effects of the coronapandemia. What we have on the table today is an additional amending budget which proposes a number of temporary changes to the unemployment fund, including an increase in the basic and ceiling amounts and reductions in the conditions of employment and membership, in order to extend the unemployment fund to include more and protect more employees. The declared objective of the government is to protect and reach the groups with the most deprived protection in the labour market. Hourly and part-time workers have been identified. It is therefore a question of reducing the requirements for who can receive unemployment benefit, both in terms of how much you should have worked and in terms of how long you should have been a member of the unemployment benefit fund. Furthermore, as others have said here today, the amount of the benefit, i.e. the income test, is temporarily abolished in the study aid system in order to enable students to work and contribute in social services, for example in health and social care. These are necessary proposals in times of crisis such as these, when it is important for politicians to ensure the safety of people's everyday lives, to dampen consumption falls and to meet the increased demand for health professionals. The Swedish Democrats therefore support the government's proposed changes to the amending budget. Many of these changes are really good and necessary, but that is not enough. There's more to it. Mr President, I would like to The changes do not reach precisely the groups that the government intends to reach. On the contrary, with almost surgical precision, it has been possible to find measures which will make it impossible for the many hourly, part-time, young and foreign-born workers who are currently outside the unemployment fund to become members of the unemployment fund before the end of their employment, if it has not already been completed. Instead, they will be referred to the basic remuneration floor of SEK 255 per day and at most SEK 510 per day, i.e. from SEK 5 600 up to – as a maximum for full-time – 11 200 per month before tax. The fact that the government is changing working conditions is good, but for my life I cannot understand why it has reduced the membership conditions of the unemployment fund from twelve to three months instead of completely removing the membership conditions. In the hotel and restaurant industry, in the rest of the tourism industry and in the retail sector today – or worked until a few weeks ago – many young and foreign born. We know from the past that many of those who for various reasons are not members of an unemployment fund are just young and foreign born. A lot of people worked part-time. Many were hourly employees. Many had relatively short notice periods. In a very large number of cases, these have already had to leave their jobs. Even if they applied for membership in March, they will not be members for three months. They are therefore referred to the lower remuneration provided by the basic scheme. In many other parts of the economy, those who have been proactive and hastened to join the unemployment fund will be able to take part in the unemployment fund's higher remuneration when their workplaces are affected by the effects of the crisis a little later on. Mr President, I would like to I asked the Prime Minister at Thursday's Question Time about that very matter: why the three-month membership terms rather than the complete abolition of membership terms? The answer I was given was that, according to the Prime Minister, it is a perfectly reasonable entry ticket for the benefit of the unemployment fund. And you might think so. I have checked the monthly price of the admission ticket in hotels and restaurants as well as in the retail sector. The answer is SEK 142 and SEK 132 per month, i.e. about SEK 400 for a three-month membership. It is 400 SEK that determines whether you will receive the higher compensation that the unemployment fund gives or is forced to apply for the municipality's support in order to supplement the lower basic salary. The truth is that the overwhelming majority of the unemployment fund's funding comes through the tax, not via the membership fee. Those who will now be denied the higher compensation in the unemployment fund have themselves been involved in financing the unemployment insurance fund, including through the special payroll tax, through the VAT on consumption and through the taxes paid by their employers. I call on the government in that particular part to take over and abolish the membership conditions completely, at least temporarily. Allow both the working conditions and the membership conditions to apply retroactively at this stage. Mr President, I would like to In parallel with the temporary changes proposed in the amending budget, an investigation into the unemployment fund is ongoing, which will be presented in spring, at least according to the regular schedule – we will see how it will be. We look forward to taking note of the conclusions the investigation reached so that we can then have a broad discussion about the design and remuneration levels. But, as I said, the Swedish Democrats have been advocating for a long time a general, state and wholly tax-funded unemployment fund. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is now, for the second time in twelve years, entering mass unemployment. However, we have not yet managed to agree on an unemployment fund that creates security for the individual, maintains consumption and purchasing power for the business community and counters concerns in the housing market. Instead, we continue to allow special interests to set limits. So, when we return to a more normal everyday life, when an evaluation of the government's crisis management is brought up to date, we look forward to a serious discussion about a general, state and tax-funded unemployment fund that applies to everyone. We're not gonna end up here again. Finally, wash your hands! Follow laws, rules and recommendations! Keep your distance! Protect the elderly and other risk groups! Take responsibility not only for your own health but also for the health of your fellow humans!
i-535baf70240ede52-63	Mr President, I would like to So we stand here again and debate to subsequently take a decision on another supplementary amending budget. The measures taken by Parliament and the Government in recent weeks are unprecedented in Sweden's modern history. Nothing indicates that this is ebbing out, on the contrary. We will probably have to stand here and debate additional supplementary amending budgets with additional measures to secure key societal functions, Swedish jobs and companies. What has been done so far is precisely this: to ensure that Sweden continues to function despite all the implications of the Corona crisis, to devote more money to municipalities and regions so that they can maintain the welfare services that just have to continue to work and support domestic aviation, so that we have that part of the infrastructure in place at a reasonable minimum level despite the times we are currently living through. In the case of jobs and businesses, a number of packages have been put in place. It is about liquidity through new possibilities for deferral of the tax account, a credit guarantee to commercial banks and that we strengthen Almi, the Export Credit Board and much more so that Swedish companies can continue to endure the tough times we are in. We have also decided on reliefs at a historical level. It is about reducing costs by reducing employers' contributions, removing sickness pay liability for a number of months and, not least, a short-term lay-off system that allows us to lift a large part of the wage costs in order to maintain Swedish jobs and that the notice we have now seen to a historical extent should not be passed on to clean lay-offs. We have done a lot to secure Swedish jobs and companies, but it is clear that more will have to be done when this crisis deepens and continues. We operate in considerable uncertainty. So far, many countries around the world have planned that this is a crossing trip that will last until the summer around, and that the economy and life will then return to normal. That is far from something we can be sure of. We do not even know how long the emergency phase will continue, which means that it will be extremely difficult to know exactly how to balance the measures taken. We need to be prepared that the extraordinary things that are done time-limited may also have to go on longer than we initially thought. We must also be prepared to act if the crisis deepens and enters the real estate or banking sector. V i must also ensure that there is dry powder left to bring about a new start, a new start, after the crisis's more acute course, when it is time to build a new, stronger, better and more sustainable Sweden. Today we are going to decide on, among other things, a broader and more generous cash register. This is important in order for those who, despite the measures being implemented and to be implemented, do not have to apply for support to a wider extent. It could put onions on the salmon, partly for all the individuals involved, partly for Swedish society in a broader sense, because we know that before you can take part in the support you have to sell the villa, car and so on. It is very bad if thousands of people are forced to do this for a short time during a burning crisis. That is why it is right to extend the unemployment fund for a limited period of time and also to make it more generous. Today, we are also deciding on a number of important measures to strengthen the Swedish education chain. It is about investments in folk high school for those who need to study grades and get a high school degree. It is about university and university places for those who now take the opportunity to enter education in one way or another. It is also a question of strengthening vocational training with YH, vocational adults and the like. It is simply the case that for those who lose their jobs in these tough times, education increases, overwintering in the Swedish education system and living on CSN, the chance to come out with a significantly stronger position on the Swedish labour market when the economic winds turn. If you manage this, you do something good about what is fundamentally very worrying, namely the Swedish Corona crisis that we are now dealing with in all its different parts. I support the committee's proposal.
i-535baf70240ede52-72	Mr President, I would like to The crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic has put both strengths and shortcomings in Swedish society in lightning. We've seen the way health care professionals re-set to provide care and comfort. We have seen a lot of people volunteer for everything from nursing to shopping for neighbors in need of help. We have also seen authorities, government and parliament work to ensure that open democratic decision-making in our country works as well as it is possible. This includes the development by the government of five additional amending budgets to date, and it is the fifth that we are going to take a decision on today. As I said, the crisis has also made many of the shortcomings and shortcomings of society visible and felt. For most people in Sweden it has become clear that just in time thinking, new public management, precarious employment, privatisation of welfare services and other far-reaching market experiments have made society more fragile and prepared for the unexpected weaker. Many more have now also become aware of the importance of functioning, comprehensive security systems, so that we are not confined to tackling the problems alone, but can do so by using the resources that we create together. An important such system is, of course, unemployment insurance. This supplementary amending budget proposes a number of important reinforcements. These are reinforcements that are fully in line with what the Left Party has been proposing for a long time and which we considered absolutely urgent to implement when the future effects of the pandemic became clear. We naturally welcome the fact that the government has also recognised the importance of action in this area, and we support the proposal. At the same time, it is important to recall that the serious shortcomings that have been found in unemployment insurance, and which are now partly addressed by these proposals, have not arisen because of oblivion or failure in any bureaucratic process, but have been created by very active policies, with much expected results. In particular in the years 2006-2008, in the most exuberant year of the then government, insurance deteriorated extremely dramatically. It became more expensive to participate and more difficult to qualify for compensation at all. At the same time, insurance became less worthwhile. Compensation was reduced, and it became increasingly difficult to meet the very purpose, i.e. to be an income insurance in the event of unemployment. A small part of these deteriorations in unemployment insurance were adjusted in the following years, but it is still the case that Swedish unemployment insurance has gone from being one of the better in Europe to being worse than mediocre. The improvements that we are going to put through today make insurance more decent for more, but it is not so much more than that if you look at it with a little perspective. Today's bill addresses some of the most flagrant shortcomings of unemployment insurance. Firstly, too few can be included. A reasonable starting point is that if you are out of work but actively seek a job and put yourself at the disposal of the labour market, i.e. what makes you defined as unemployed in both Swedish and international statistics, then you should be able to get insurance cover. Today there is a so-called working conditions that are so strict that many insecure jobs are excluded from being involved at all. It is about those who work hours, who work part-time and who have several different employers and thus try to get a earned income together. Now the working conditions are lightened. We would have liked it to have been halved straight off. Now it goes from 80 to 60 hours a month for six months, which is a good and significant step in the right direction. Secondly, it is relaxed on the membership condition, i.e. the shortest time required to have been a member of an unemployment fund in order to be eligible for income-related compensation. If you join now, three months will be enough instead of twelve months. That's good, too. To everyone sitting in front of televisions and radios to listen to this debate: Join an unemployment fund today if you have not done so before! Thirdly, both the so-called basic amount and the ceiling of the 'a' checkout are raised. Of course, this is extremely urgent, because the low ceiling has meant that very many do not get any 80 percent of their previous income at all. Now there's more, and that's good. A higher basic amount means that more people do not have to become directly poor, even if they do not yet receive income-related compensation based on an acceptable previous income. This is also one of the main points of having unemployment insurance at all: people who are prepared and able to take a job but who, due to economic circumstances, cannot find a job should still be able to get sensible living conditions. We can afford to offer each other that. The whole of our economy and labour market will also become more robust. It is nice that there is now agreement on this. Better late than never, we say pragmatists. Mr President, I would like to As it is so clear that these improvements in the unemployment fund are necessary to fix the system, it is also quite strange to hear the emphasis on the importance of their temporary nature. Perhaps the legislative model itself would have been different in a different situation than in a dramatic pandemic; that is reasonable. But the problems that today's amendments are aiming to solve were before the Corona crisis, and they will be after. Even if those in this House do not see it today, I believe that most people in Sweden will find it quite unreasonable that these sensible improvements to the unemployment fund should end, for example, at the turn of the year. Should the government and its partners stand here and say that now it is important that we once again have an unemployment fund that does not allow hard-working people in precarious employment? At New Year's, when we are hopefully through the period of severe pressure on health care and have come across the threshold of massive shutdowns and layoffs but need time to repair the economic damage of this crisis, shall we then hear Social Democrats and center parties say to the engineers, cold lads, pilots, paper workers and hotel cleaners who have not yet been able to find a new job that we are now going to lower your compensations? It will not be reasonable, it will not be righteous and I can assure you that we will be quite many who speak out. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to mention two minor points which may have a major impact on the actual outcome for individuals and which I therefore consider important that the government should follow up closely. The first is that the requirement of employers' certificates can lead to difficulties for some of those who now come along and therefore also for the cashiers. The possibility of confirming previous income through data from the Swedish Tax Agency exists but requires more complicated processing. It is important that this does not result in long waiting periods. Another problem is that many part-time workers who have access to the basic protection of unemployment insurance are at risk of receiving a very low amount of compensation, because it is counted against a full-time plan. The Government draws attention to the problem in the bill and proposes that the minimum amount of daily allowance can be specified. Such a provision should be issued very soon and the amount fixed should, in principle, be at a level which makes it possible to make it without having to apply for local support. We would have liked to see clearer wording on these points, but because of the completely understandable time pressure on this matter, we have contented ourselves with this. We will come back in the relevant contexts. Last of all, Mr President, I have stayed entirely in unemployment insurance for wage earners. The report also contains a number of other proposals, on the one hand, improvements in the access of self-employed workers to insurance, on the other hand, proposals relating to the temporary abolition of student allowances, temporary support for the rental costs of businesses in certain sectors, and on the other hand, additional support for the cultural and sports sector, which has been exceptionally hard hit by the current crisis. The Left Party also supports all these measures.
i-535baf70240ede52-94	Mr President, I would like to Corona is fundamentally affecting our society. It is a crisis that goes through several sectors of society and affects us all. There is hope also after this crisis, but right now we see those affected by the disease and those who are struggling in the care and working actively day and night to fight the disease and protect life. We would like to express our special thanks to all those who are making fantastic, magnificent contributions right now. This is also something that is hitting the economy hard. This is, of course, linked to the possibility of providing a good health care. It is good that funds are provided to municipalities and county councils to meet healthcare needs. It is good to remove the free amount in this extra budget so that health students feel that they can fully contribute to the care. Yesterday, the Christian Democrats proposed a system that allows people to be freed up who currently exist in other sectors so that they can also serve more easily and with better conditions on the front line of health care. We believe that this would be a matter of great urgency. This is an economic crisis that strikes very deep and wide. We have seen predictions in tens of thousands, something we have never seen before. Tens of thousands are also newly enrolled at Arbetsförmedlingen. This dramatic and deep crisis presents Sweden with very big challenges in a short time, and that is also why we are now discussing and debating the fifth additional budget in a short time. There's good stuff here. I've mentioned the release. The government is now also doing something about rents. We Christian Democrats believe that this system needs to be screwed. There is a risk that the aid will not reach those who will benefit from it when it is directed to property owners and has this relatively complicated construction. We believe that the government may have to come back with a system that is larger and based instead on turnover, like our neighbours. However, it is good that things are done. We have been saying for weeks now that short-term lay-offs must be increased. It must be possible to lay off at levels that reach 100% of the time, where the state takes a far greater share of the cost than at present. Otherwise, we will not be able to do the jobs in this crisis. It will lead to an unnecessarily high level of unemployment if we do not do this, and that is a danger in delay. The most important measure to get in place now is to significantly increase lay-off opportunities and ensure that there is greater cost recovery for companies so that they retain their employees in the workplace so that, when it is discussed that we will restart the Swedish economy, they are prepared to restart it and so that what is to be restarted is not extinguished. This is absolutely essential to do. In the supplementary budget, the government has proposed an extension of the unemployment fund. We Christian Democrats think that is a good thing. It is very good at this point that a checkout should be broadened so that more people can join the unemployment fund. We have called for this, and the government does so in terms of working conditions and membership conditions. That is excellent, because we do not want people to end up needlessly in support of their livelihoods. It is also good and reasonable in this recession to make reinforcements of the floor and ceiling, but like many others I would like to emphasise that these are temporary roof elevations. It is important that they then return to more normal levels in order to maintain the driving forces to work when the economic cycle returns to normal. I must reflect on the fact that the government is investing more in strengthening for those who go into unemployment. We have nothing against it – I have just welcomed it. It invests more than it does on people with average salaries who can be short-term laid off, and this means that we need to consider whether the government has understood that this is not a structural crisis. So it is not economic imbalances that are behind, where people are to be diverted from companies that do not work to companies that work. This is not what the crisis is about; it is about a very strong fall in demand, caused entirely by external factors. Then the layoffs must be raised. Then it is reasonable to invest more in lay-off aid than at the check-out, so that people can keep their jobs. Otherwise you get an increase in unemployment. You get persistence, and you get people who don't get back into work for a long time. That is why it is so crucial now to get the lay-off aid up even further. I saw the press conference held by the government, which presented the changes in cash. These are good – it was good to do them. But at the press conference they also talked about how important it is for those who have temporary employment to be able to enter the unemployment fund and that this was the reason for changing working conditions and membership conditions. These are good changes. The government showed statistics on 747 000 people in Sweden who have temporary employment contracts, of which over 500 000 in the private sector. At the same time, the government has still not changed on the condition that companies wishing to benefit from lay-off aid must first terminate their temporary staff. It is good that the unemployment fund is strengthened, but why put employees against employees in the way that the government continues to do? If you enter the Swedish Agency for Growth's website, you will find a matrix where you will answer questions, such as if the company has made itself ready to apply for short-term lay-off. Another question is whether the company has reduced its labour costs in the manner prescribed by the legislation, namely whether the company has disposed of all temporary workers and all consultants who are not critical of the activity of the company. If you answer no to the question, you can't move on in the matrix. That's how it works. The damage is largely already done. Many thousands of temporary workers have been made redundant because of this rule. I am not saying that all temporary staff would have remained if the rule had not existed, but it has affected. Sätra Brunn has resigned temporary staff because of the rule. Voi's done it. The splendour has done so; there people from Samhall have been laid off to be sure that they will receive lay-off support. It has been said that the disabled cannot remain. This has been forced to happen. It has felt obliged to set employees against employees because of the regulations and because the government is now using a regulatory framework for a situation that is a normal economic situation instead of using the 2014 legislation that says that temporary workers should be included in the lay-off support. They should be included because they otherwise have a significantly worse position in the labour market. This has already caused major problems and unnecessary unemployment in Sweden, but it can change. We can change this. We can ensure that employers do not have to pit employees against employees in this way. We know that this is right, because we are in a deep recession. It is not an ordinary small financial position in a company or an industry, but it is one of the worst crises we have seen, Mr President. There is now a great deal of urgency to do more, to scale up lay-off aid and to ensure that the regulations we have help people to keep their jobs and that companies can retain their production capacity so that it is there when we re-start the economy. Then we have to change these things. Much of what the government is proposing is good: improvements in the unemployment insurance fund, removal of the free amount for students and attempts to do something about the firm's fixed costs. But there is still much to be done, Mr President, and it is urgent.
i-535baf70240ede52-113	Mr President, I would like to The Coronapendemy is sweeping the world like a storm. In this storm, democracy is curtailed in countries where leaders take the opportunity to use Corona as a pretext to restrict fundamental freedoms and human rights. Jobs and businesses break down as demand decreases, and perhaps the worst is that people lose their lives. Mr President, I would like to Here in Sweden, we must do what we can to tackle the challenges and enormous burdens of the Corona storm. We've done a lot before. We're going to have to do more. What is now on the table contains several important things. The abolition of the benefit means that students can now help and strengthen their health care. We ensure that it is not economics that stands in the way when it comes to testing more and buying protective equipment and the type of equipment needed for healthcare to cope with the crisis. But, Mr President, if there are no people working, if there is no demand or if there are no enterprising people creating something, then you cannot build any intensive care departments. Then you can't buy any ECMO machines. Then you can't pay any wages in health care. It is entrepreneurship and people who work that make this country and all the other economies go around. It is not possible to have welfare without first having prosperity. Therefore, the threat that Corona poses to prosperity is also a threat to well-being and a threat to the health care efforts needed to save lives. I am pleased, Mr President, that what we are voting on today means temporary adjustments to the a-cassage system. This means that people will find it easier to remain in the labour market and that we will ensure that companies manage their rents better so that they are not knocked out because of the costs. This is crucial if we are to continue to have both prosperity and prosperity in the future, so that we can cope with the crisis and the crises that will come in the future. Once the storm has settled and the smoke has settled, we will have to move on and build up much of what has collapsed in the storm. That is why, Mr President, I am very pleased that what we are voting on today does not only contain many of the economic pieces that we have talked about so far in this House today, but also means investing in the education system so that the people who might lose their jobs can train and get back stronger in the labour market. This means investing in culture and the media, which is crucial when we see how democracy is challenged in country after country and when we see how fundamental human rights and freedoms are being violated. Sometimes restrictions on how many people gather in one place at the same time may be necessary. But it also means that the media are even more needed for scrutiny, and that is where these support is crucial. Mr President, I would like to There is also in this money to protect children's rights. These are already vulnerable children who become even more vulnerable in isolation. We also need to help these children, and it is also included in the package on which we are going to vote today. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal. I would like to remind you that more will have to be done, and I would like to remind you that this storm is not over yet. However, when it has become destitute, we will have to invest in jobs and entrepreneurship, in more education and in strengthening democracy in order to build prosperity so that we can also face future crises.
i-535baf70240ede52-122	Mr President, I would like to We are still in the phase when we are doing everything we can to combat the virus itself and save lives. We'll do that together. The front line is in our intensive care departments, in healthcare at large and not least in care where you work hard to protect our elderly. We are all affected by the crisis we are going through. More or less, we've had to limit our lives. This crisis affects Sweden's economy hard. Many have already received notice of dismissal from their employer. Many entrepreneurs are extremely worried and are probably awake at night with concerns about not being able to pay invoices and rents. Today we are dealing with the fifth supplementary amending budget in connection with the Corona. It contains a series of measures. It begins in the acute, that the government is very clear that the fight against this virus should never be about money. The state is about to take the fall. Health care will do everything it can, and the government will take the check. It's an important message. Today, there is also a strengthening of the funding of testing in the hope that this will, among other things, lead to wider testing of healthcare professionals, so that care can function effectively. Mr President, I would like to In all crises, the weakest are most affected. One group that is exposed to the situation we have now is the children and women who live in poorly functioning families, who live with control and violence at home and where the home is not a security but the opposite. They may now be trapped with a violent partner who may drink more, be more stressed and press and control more. Then it is extremely important that we see this and with common forces are there for these women and children. Those who are very good at this are the non-profit organisations that work with these issues every day and stand by the side of these women and children. It is therefore important that we now strengthen the finances of these non-profit organisations, so that they can do an outreach job, be there and help and support. In this budget, we also propose rent support for those companies that find it difficult to pay their rent. We're also strengthening the unemployment fund, and I'll get back to that. We increase the number of courses in Sweden. Looking ahead, it is important for this crisis to become part of a transition in the labour market as well. I hope that many of those who have received a negative message from their current employer now see an opportunity to perhaps start an education. There is now a wide-ranging application procedure. We are making major improvements to both higher education and vocational training, and I hope that this can be a way forward for many people who are currently without jobs and livelihoods. Mr President, I would like to We make a series of changes to the unemployment fund, and the unemployment fund is complicated. There's a lot of rules around the unemployment fund. So I was going to go on to explain a little bit what this will mean for those affected. The fund consists of a number of levels. If you are a member of the unemployment fund, it has been over time and works full time, for example, you will receive an income insurance benefit. However, if you work less, for example part-time, if you have precarious employment relationships or if you have not been a member of the unemployment fund, you do not get an immediate right to it but enter it step by step. Now we are making changes that mean that more people receive this income insurance benefit by facilitating both the membership condition and the working conditions. There are some calculation examples that might help us to understand what this means in practice. A 20-year-old who has worked in a café and who meets the working conditions, i.e. has worked more than 60 hours a month in the last six months but does not fulfil the membership conditions, i.e. has not been in the unemployment fund for more than a year, would receive about SEK 5 000 a month before this reform. After these changes have been made, this 20-year-old will receive SEK 8 000 a month. Maybe that's the difference between being able to live on your income and not being able to. What is important here is that this will lead to fewer people having unemployment funds having to seek out the municipality in order to receive subsistence support. Then we reduce the pressure on municipalities, and more people have a stable income. For a person who is a member of the unemployment fund but does not meet the working conditions, this can mean that you go from 5 000 SEK up to 17 000 SEK per month and thus get a fairly decent income because these changes come up in income insurance. This will generate clear changes in people's everyday lives. More people will be able to live on this. S if several have noted, there will unfortunately for some time be fewer jobs to apply for. More people will have to live on unemployment benefit for some time. Then it is an important change that they do not need to apply for supply support. It's good for everyone. That is why this is one of the many decisions we make to get through this crisis together, so that we can restart Sweden and the Swedish economy when all this is over. In a crisis you should keep your head cold, your heart warm and your hands clean, and not least you should work together. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
