i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-4	Madam President, I would like Johan Hedin has asked me what I intend to do to punish such self-imposed control powers that took place in the district of Angered in northeastern Gothenburg at the end of August. Let me begin by emphasising that I and the government take this incident very seriously. I cannot anticipate a possible judicial review of the offences that may have been committed. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that this type of conduct is punishable and fits in with the crimes that we have today. Depending on the circumstances of the individual case, events of this kind may lead to criminal liability under a variety of provisions, including illegal threats and coercion. In addition, we have ensured that the crimes can become serious if they have been significantly reinforced by reference to violent capital. We have also tightened the penalties in these parts. If someone sets up roadblocks or similar in a situation where there are emergency or law enforcement activities, the person can also be convicted of the new crime sabotage against bluelight operations. The Act of Order, the Road Act and the Road Crimes Act also contain criminal provisions that may apply. Anyone claiming to exercise authority can also be convicted of the crime that Johan Hedin highlights, namely the representation of general status. In addition, police officers' ability to remove or temporarily take care of persons when necessary for the maintenance of public order, or when necessary for the deterrence of a criminal act, is added. However, regardless of the criminal law rule in force, the criminal offence must be investigated in order to reverse the trend. The culture of silence must be broken, and those who have information to provide should dare to participate in criminal investigations. That is why we have set up an investigation to consider a number of issues in this area. These include Crown Witnesses, Witness Support and Witness Protection, and the question of whether an opportunity should be introduced to testify anonymously. Me and the government are working broadly against gang crime, and we have no plans to slow down. I am following developments in this area very closely and I am prepared to take the further steps that may be needed.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-11	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Government for its answer. At the same time, I would like to say that the answer concerns me a little. Of course, we should not lead any legal process in this. But there is much evidence that it is not possible to prosecute these people for any of the crimes referred to. Madam President, I would like This isn't a traffic crime. It's not about traffic. It is probably not a question of giving a general status either, because they do not claim to represent an authority or something that is part of the majority society. These are criminals who want an authority by virtue of their crime. They build up their violent capital, and with it as support they move people to act in a way that they would not otherwise have done. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Government: if it now turns out that it is not possible to prosecute for this type of increase, should we not adjust and amend the law so that it can be done?
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-14	Madam President, I would like I, too, reacted when I saw the newspaper reports and heard the statements that were made from some quarters, so I really asked to check out what really applies and if there is any gap here that we have to close. Now we don't know exactly what happened. The police are investigating it in order to clarify exactly what happened. But if it's like the image you've got, that it was people who set up roadblocks and then forced people to legitimize themselves before they got into the area, then it's either illegal threats or illegal coercion, depending on the circumstances. When it comes to illegal threats, there does not even have to be a direct threat, that if you do not do this, this and this will happen to you, but it is enough that there is a latent threat. For example, it may be a known gang-criminal that everyone knows who it is or who behaves in such a way that the whole situation is perceived as threatening. It will then be covered by illegal threats or coercion, depending on how you have acted. We have also recently tightened the criminalisation, as I say in the interpellation response, by introducing that anyone who refers to so-called violent capital, i.e. a member of a criminal gang, should also be able to be sentenced to grossly illegal threats or coercion, depending on what it is about. We made that adjustment a few years ago. It is the main team room that may be up to date, but I also point to a few others, depending on how you have acted. Then I saw that there was information in the debate that it would not be possible to judge anyone for this, because the constitutional provision on freedom of movement has no criminal law attached to it. That's wrong, I would say. There are a number of laws aimed at safeguarding freedom of movement, including legislation on harassment, illegal detention and unlawful coercion. But the form of government as such is, above all, about upholding rights and freedoms in relation to the individual and the state. That is what it is aiming for. However, as far as legislation is concerned to ensure that you have the freedom of movement that is to be granted to you as an individual in relation to other individuals, there is the legal framework in criminal law to which I refer. Right here I mean that there should be no further review, because there should be no gap in this area. However, we know that a lot of other things are needed in the area of gang crime that we must continue to work with. We must ensure that these crimes can be investigated and that they can be taken as they are. Here Johan Hedin knows all the work we do with the police expansion, that we are reviewing the legislation and criminal law in other parts and when it comes to camera surveillance, which could of course be very important in a situation like this to know exactly what has happened. I also mentioned in the interpellation response the measures we want to take to break the culture of silence. There is now an investigation, and there is a very interesting proposal to introduce what we call a Crown Witness system. I think that will mean that we can unlock some of the rather closed structures that currently exist and thus clear up crimes. We have a lot to do and a lot of reviews going on. But the assessment we make from the department is that in this particular respect there should be no gap.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-22	Madam President, I would like When I made the lump almost a hundred years ago, they learned that if the map deviates from reality, it is the map that applies. It feels in the Minister of Justice's answer like he's got the map in his hand. The reality is felt differently in Angered and elsewhere, I dare say. If that's true, we should get convictions for this kind of business. If it is not enough, I still interpret it as saying that we agree that there is a need for an adjustment. We'll have to take that bridge when we get there. But if the government does not take its own initiative, I can do so myself in committee through a committee initiative or equivalent, so that is all well and good. The Minister of Justice is also talking about the culture of silence, which is an extremely central part. When we had the gang talks quite exactly a year ago, one of the main numbers of the Center Party was to strengthen witness protection and that more could be included in witness protection programs. We would also address the offence of abuse in legal proceedings. We did not have time to specify more precisely how much that punishment would be tightened up. But an important limit is two years. It gives police and prosecutors more money to work with, and you can also use compulsory detention. That would be a welcome change. It is a strong contribution that I gave to the Minister for the Interior in the debate yesterday, and I am giving the same contribution to the Minister for Justice today. It's an important limit. Yesterday, I also launched a further development of that proposal. There are situations in which a person charged with a more serious crime, such as murder, knows that the prosecution is primarily based on a central witness task. If the penalty for legal abuse is mainly consumed in the second sentence, the defendant has nothing to lose in principle by trying to threaten a witness to silence. That is why we want the principle of asperation to be excluded for the crime of abuse in legal matters, so that we know that threats against witnesses automatically give at least two years of additional penalty, regardless of which other sentence is passed. Does the Minister of Justice think this is a good idea?
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-27	Madam President, I would like I would like to look further at that proposal. As I said, there is an investigation going on to review a number of issues. I mentioned the Crown Witness question. Witness protection, legal abuse, perjury, protection of criminals, and anonymous witnesses are also reviewed. I met the investigator, the Justice Council Stefan Johansson, yesterday to review how far the investigation has come, and it has come quite far. We discussed, among other things, violations of the law and the other legal spaces. I choose to highlight Crown Witnesses because the image we have from the countries that have this – we don't have to go far; it is enough to go to Norway and Denmark – see it as an effective instrument for unlocking these closed cultures. Crown - Witness systems mean that during a preliminary investigation, if one tells what one has done and what one's accomplices have done, there will be an opportunity to put the penalty down. So there is something to be gained by participating in the preliminary investigation. We do not have this opportunity in Sweden today, but in many other EU countries, and it is perceived as effective. I therefore see that it seems to be a model that could work well in Sweden too, and then we can get more to participate. That is what this is all about in this case too. What I say in the interpellation response is that in a situation when someone stops a car and requires identification to check that they live in the car in the area it is either illegal threat or illegal coercion. So it does not have to be an explicit threat, but the threat can be latent. This means that it falls within the scope of the criminal offence. However, in order to obtain a conviction, one must have a witness record and be able to prove that it is beyond reasonable doubt that it has been done in this way. If you had camera surveillance at the site, you would have been able to prove it quite easily. In this situation, however, we do not know exactly what happened and who it was about. It may be because you cannot get a conviction, not because there is a gap in the law. The investigation of legal abuse, witness protection, anonymous witnesses, crown witnesses and so on is ongoing and will be submitting reports in the spring, which I look forward to. I am also, of course, happy to look further at the issue of consumption, which is highlighted by the Center Party.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-36	Madam President, I would like I interpret the Minister of Justice's reply as being in favour of our idea of how to develop this criminal liability. I, like everyone else here, and the Attorney General, are concerned about the progress of the gangs. We must be prepared to screw the law to close the door to the progress of these people. We have to do this in every conceivable way, and we have to be on our toes when we do it. We will follow this development, legal proceedings and they very closely and see what it comes out in. It may be appropriate to look at the law so that we close this gap, and I hope that we can continue to have a constructive spirit in such talks.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-39	Madam President, I would like We are always prepared to engage in constructive dialogue. I say that there is no gap, because if it has been done in this way, it is punishable by the two legal bases that I mentioned. But there are many other things to do, not least so that you can really carry out preliminary investigations and get the witness assignments you need. Johan Hedin mentioned punitive measures in cases of abuse of justice. My view is that if you go after a victim or a witness, you go not only against that person but also the rule of law as such because it aims to undermine our ability to clear up a crime. That is why the legislator must take a strict view of this type of document. Now we are reviewing this part of criminal law precisely because the sanctions are so small. It can be about as little as 14 days in prison, which seems very mild when you understand what this is really about. Here we want to tighten up and there are various technical ways to go about this tightening up. The important thing is that the state is taking much harder than it has done in the past against the gang criminals who are attacking others to try to stop prosecution – and we seem to be in full agreement on this.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-45	Madam President, I would like Hans Rothenberg has asked the Minister for Economic Affairs whether he intends to be a driving force in order for trade fair operations in Sweden to be able to restart in the near future and whether he intends to enter into dialogue with the representatives of the trade fairs in order to find constructive forms for an early start. The interpellation has been handed over to me. We are currently in the midst of a pandemic, and the danger is far from over. The government is aware that the spread of the new coronavirus has brought considerable difficulties and challenges to large sections of society. Many industries, businesses and entrepreneurs have suffered financially as a result of the new virus. Work to help companies is ongoing, and the government has taken several measures to support the business community in order to mitigate the economic effects of the Corona virus. The Government has presented measures including loans, credit guarantees, reduced social security contributions and social security contributions, short-term lay-off to reduce wage costs and rent support and conversion aid to help businesses. The order prohibiting the holding of general meetings and public events means that no such arrangements with more than 50 participants may be held for the time being. The purpose of the regulation is to prevent the spread of the virus causing covid-19. The Swedish Public Health Agency believes that the 50th limit has been and still is an important tool in the fight against covid-19. As I stated earlier, among other things in answer to parliamentary questions, the regulation will remain in place as long as it is needed. J ag shares the view that it is important that the ban does not unnecessarily hit activities that can be carried out in an infectious manner safely. In the Government Office, therefore, a memorandum of relief has been drawn up. The proposals in the memo mean that the prohibition of the Regulation shall not apply to certain gatherings and events with seated participants, nor to gatherings and events held at such restaurants as are covered by the Act on Temporary Disease Control at Serving Sites. The amendments to the Regulation are proposed to enter into force on 1 October 2020. The memorandum has been sent out for consultation, and the period of referral expired on 27 August 2020. The Government will take into account the views expressed during the referral and return to the matter as soon as possible. As I stated earlier, among other things in response to parliamentary questions, the Government also intends to start work on developing a new more accurate regulation for disease control measures. It is clear that legislation is needed to better regulate situations where certain conventions need to be limited in order to prevent the spread of infection. An investigation will be set up to review the legislation.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-54	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In this debate we are discussing something that I would like to say is an engine for Sweden's industry, an engine that has been hacked into the machinery. Due to the restrictions resulting from the Corona virus, arrangements with more than 50 participants are not allowed. However, there is a big difference between different types of meetings, where football matches, fairgrounds and fairs are assessed using a completely different template than, for example, department stores and shopping malls. Fair arrangements are extremely important for large parts of the business community and generate business for multi-billion dollars for the issuing companies – large and, above all, small. A fair, however, has a completely different character from a different kind of audience arrangement. Not all participants arrive at the same time, and they do not stand or sit together but move across large areas. The organiser can also make it possible to control visitor flows over time. Thus, a fair is much more like a shopping mall than a festival. Fair organisers have very good opportunities to fully secure the arrangements as there are methods to conduct fairs in a safe manner that meets the government's requirements for social distance. If trade fairs in Sweden can move to operations, instead of current paralysis, opportunities are opened for the tens of thousands of smaller companies whose survival depends largely on trades generated at trade fairs. I have asked whether the Minister intends to act as a driving force. I understand that this is something the Minister would like to be but that he is waiting for the investigation. And dialogue with the representatives of the trade fairs, I assume they have. Madam President, I would like Trade fairs are a vital industry for Sweden, and they are currently going down. You sit with facilities that you can't pay interest on, and you have zero cash flow. You need a preliminary date now for an opening. This is because there are long lead times. Unlike the start-up of a football tournament or department store, there are lead times of up to six months for trade fairs. That is why a provisional date is now so important. In Düsseldorf, Germany, the Caravan Salon fair has just been completed. It was implemented with restrictions to be covid-19-safe. The reports from there have been very positive with regard to this restart. And in Finland, Kauhava Air Show has recently been implemented. Sweden is soon the only country in Europe that has not opened up for fairs even though there are tested procedures to reduce the risk of virus spread. Sweden should be able to follow the example of Germany and Denmark and equate fairs with shopping centres. This would open up to get the trade fairs going again under safe conditions. Many companies and their employees are affected by the disappearance of the trade fairs. It's about organizers, booth builders, material suppliers, sound and light plus all exhibiting companies. Several trade fair companies have gone bankrupt or closed down. The biggest loser, however, is issuing companies and visitors who lose an important market channel. Europe is opening up, and soon only Sweden will remain. I would like to emphasise, Madam President, that fairs are an extremely important part of Sweden's business and contribute to increased revenues for the travel industry, retail, transport and, not least, the hotel and restaurant industries. The trade fair is an engine for many other industries, and that is why this is so urgent. I would like to ask the Minister: is there not a certain logic in putting a fair on an equal footing with a shopping mall?
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-67	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Rothenberg, for an urgent interpellation. We are in a situation where several sectors of industry are more severely affected than others by the restrictions that we have now imposed in Sweden and with which we are still living. Trade fairs are directly subject to regulation and thus have major economic consequences through the regulation that we have put in place. I understand that there are illogicalities in the legislation – I am the first to acknowledge this. The law of order is not optimal for this type of regulation, and that is why the government says that we must learn from the crisis and ensure that a new regulatory framework is drawn up that allows different activities that may need to be restricted for disease protection reasons to be limited, but perhaps not on the basis of the law of order. The Code not only raises a number of demarcation problems, which we are discussing here today and which have been discussed in several other areas, but also imposes criminal liability on the organiser. The police have a role to play in this, and it is not certain that all the measures we have in Sweden should be regulated by a law of order in this way. I agree with the basics of the problem picture. Over time, we need to have a better regulatory framework that does not have these effects on certain sectors. Now I sounded positive, but I want to say that we are still in a situation in the pandemic that is a little uncertain. Sweden has a lower spread of infection than last spring, perhaps even much lower, although I should not be too optimistic. We are in a better position today than then, and this means that we must be able to look at our measures to see what reliefs are now to be made. We have gone out with a memo where we look at some reliefs that we suggest. This applies to both the sitting audience and the question when there is already a regulatory framework that regulates this effectively linked to the restaurant industry and so on. These are the steps we are taking in the first stage. We are not saying that we should not take new steps in the future, but it is a bit difficult to discuss provisional dates right now. We come from a period when the Swedish people have come back from holiday, where high school schools are running, where universities have stepped on and where public transport has the challenge that it will be when many people come back from holiday in larger cities, which gives greater pressure than before. So we are in a situation where we do not really know how the spread of infection in society is affected. On the other hand, we see in many of our neighbouring countries, including Germany, that the spread of infection has taken off. We are a little different at the moment, as the spread of infection is still falling here, which is good, but we do not really know how the actions of the last few weeks affect. That's why we and the Public Health Agency don't dare set a date right now. I understand the frustration about this, but it is not that we are not clear that we are prepared to do more when we see a little more where Sweden is and if we can keep our spread of infection even though our neighbours see an increased spread. This is important for us to know when we are taking new steps to make, for example, various reliefs. I still believe that there are activities that with the right adaptation and a good process together with the Swedish Public Health Agency in the next step could have the opportunity to open up. But we're not quite there yet. Now we are aiming for the first date, 1 October, when we hope to make the first reliefs linked to the law of order. If the spread of infection does not take off, we are prepared to take new steps over time, but if we see negative developments, we are prepared to take them back.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-75	Madam President, I would like In this interpellation debate, I am not going to do what we usually do, namely press the government and say that it does stupid things, and then it is the opposition that does not come up with good enough proposals. I would like to use this debate to provide the Minister and the Government with the best possible basis for decision when it comes to reconsidering the conditions for carrying out trade fairs. This is important to get Sweden started. As I said earlier, it's lead times of about six months to start a trade fair. You don't just open the doors anyway. I have worked for 20 years in this industry, and that is perhaps why I can draw up some examples that may not be widely known. There is much that a trade fair organiser can do to limit the spread of infection. For example, in the construction and dismantling of a trade fair, it should be comparable to a construction site, which today has to operate without restrictions on the number of workers. There's one step. Control points show how many people are moving within the fair area. A shopping mall has a fixed plan, while a trade fair can be changed, planned and used in a variety of ways, depending on current situations. This allows fairs to be conducted safely from a disease-protection point of view. Trade fairs are an arena that can handle visitor flows much better than is possible in many other contexts. There are safety procedures that are ready and tested in Europe. The global fair organisation UFI and the exhibitor organisation Iela have developed guidelines for the management of fairs in connection with covid-19. Today, almost all visitors are pre-registered at trade fairs with names, addresses and more. This means that the organizer knows when each exhibition visitor arrives at the facility and how many people are in the arena. Fair organizers can control visitor flows. They can create castles where you indicate when the visitors come and how long they can stay. So the trade fair organisers have full control. Fairs and other facilities for events and conferences are well-developed. They have high ceilings with conditions better than any other facility to manage flows safely. You can also arrange wider passages in the premises. Nor are any fools going to fairs. They are talented people who are professionals and take responsibility for themselves and their surroundings. They won't go to work if they don't feel so they can work. Fair visitors are conscious people who know what to do at a fair. Often they have already booked an appointment with exhibitors when they arrive. It is an environment where congestion does not usually occur. In principle, all the arrangements in this sector have, as I said, long planning horizons. That is why a provisional date later on is so urgent. If the government says that it considers that the developments from 1 April can be such that you can get started, then you can start starting now in October. If this information is received on 1 December, the whole first half of the year is over. Then it is September next year that we are talking about. The industry simply needs the conditions to start planning. As I said, there are some simple assessment criteria here. One is that a fair is more like a shopping mall. Shopping malls have worked almost all the time since the pandemic began. There are great opportunities for the organizers to meet the requirements and restrictions that the Public Health Agency and the Government can impose. I hope this was a palette of good advice.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-85	Madam President, I would like Then I will follow Hans Rothenberg's example in this interpellation debate and note that as former Minister of Economic Affairs, I am quite well aware of the importance of fairs for individual companies, for innovation in Swedish business and also for export success for Sweden. They are an important part and an important infrastructure for the development of business in Sweden that I gladly sign. I would also like to thank Mr Rothenberg for highlighting several important perspectives on how trade fairs could be conducted in a way that is infectious and does not pose an excessive risk of infection. It is also important to highlight international examples, because we do. We look a lot at how other countries have designed regulations and how other countries have chosen to act. Then each country has its own legal basis for this. This makes a little bit of a mess for Sweden with the legislation that we have right now, when the law of order is the most widely used legislation on which we build a lot. I note that Mr Rothenberg says that not least this sector needs long planning conditions in order to understand in any case what decisions may be taken later and what conditions may apply later. It's not just the trade fair that wants it. In principle, all sectors which are currently limited by the law would like to have a planning horizon, whether they are sporting events, the cultural sector or fairgrounds. In order to be able to plan and operate a business, it is not only necessary to open up the business but to have done a preparatory work that takes a long time. The trade in fairs is a clear example of this. My answer is that we will not close the door for further relief. On the contrary, we will be very clear that we do not want to be stuck in restrictions longer than necessary, but that we are currently in a phase where we are still evaluating whether we will be able to maintain the low spread of infection that prevails at the moment so that it persists. We want to see it before we, and above all the Public Health Agency, can give some perspective on the spread of infection in the future. Now there's a lot going on. We have discussions about vaccination programmes that will come in the future. There are therefore several dimensions to this that could perhaps lead to even clearer interim clearance in the future. We are well aware that these interim reports are preliminary, because we cannot know exactly how this pandemic will develop either in Sweden or in the world. However, I have taken note of this and will, of course, pass it on to the Minister for Economic Affairs, who is well aware of this. But I am dealing with the issue at the moment because it is at the moment about the law of order. It's pretty blunt regulation. But the Public Health Agency has been clear to us that they want to retain the limit of 50 people. They want us to open up gradually to have control of how the spread of infection develops in Sweden.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-91	Madam President, I would like It's good that we have an authority that knows its things, and it's good that we have a government that should keep an eye on so much more, for example putting the spread of infection in a relevant context. In retrospect, I would like to say: could a large part of the trade fair business have lasted over the past six months if it had been treated equally with a shopping mall? Otherwise, it would have been relevant to close down the shopping mall. However, many of these trade fairs could have been carried out with this system. I would like to round this off by mentioning a few examples. The cancelled trade fairs during the first two quarters of the year mean that the European trade fair industry and its partners, such as hotels, restaurants and transport, have lost SEK 300 billion in revenue. In addition, a quarter million full-time jobs have been lost. This corresponds to a Swedish city that has become unemployed. In addition, we have a lot of industries and companies that have been affected by this. Madam President, I would like In Germany, it has been decided no longer to equate trade fairs with other large crowds, allowing the country's states to re-authorise trade fair arrangements. In Denmark, too, it has been decided to equate fairs with shopping centres. More and more regions and countries are in the process of following the example of Germany and Denmark. I would like to reiterate that the trade fairs industry needs to have clear conditions and guidelines just as the rest of the world is getting. Support packages are certainly good. But they are a necessary evil. The trades industry wants nothing more than to be able to carry on business again and earn its own money. The continued shutdown of trade fairs affects tens of thousands of smaller companies in particular. It is for them that fairs are crucial for survival. Madam President, I would like One of Sweden's most important industries is going down. You need a preliminary date now. Then we can open the pearl gates.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-98	Madam President, I would like I don't think it's in my power or in the power of the government to open the pearl gates. On the other hand, we will be following this issue very closely, because this is a sector and industry that has been hit very hard by the restrictions and restrictions that we have had. We have said that we are now entering a phase where we are prepared to open up and make reliefs in the law of order. We will do so step by step, depending on the state of disease protection. We have now, in a memorandum, come forward with a first relief which, hopefully, can enter into force on 1 October. I have noted good arguments for how to rig operations so that it does not contribute to increased spread of infection. I have received international examples of this and understand that there is a point in having forward planning at work. However, in all humility, I would like to say that most sectors and sectors affected by the law of order have the same arguments. If we had not had the law of order, we would not have had the same damping effect on the spread of infection in Sweden. That is the public health authority's firm opinion. It has also become normative that in other contexts too, more than 50 participants have not been allowed, even in private contexts. Hence, the Swedish Public Health Agency has considered it very important that this law is maintained and that the 50th limit is maintained. But the government has now moved on and has gone out with proposals to make a number of reliefs. I hope that the low level of infection can last. If we see such a development, the government is prepared to move forward with further relief in this regard, looking at sectors that can show that they can operate in a safe manner.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-102	Madam President, I would like David Josefsson has asked me whether I am prepared also to investigate reliefs in the ban on general gatherings and public events for exercise that can be carried out in a way that does not contribute to the further dissemination of covid-19. The question concerns the regulation prohibiting the holding of general meetings and public events, which means that no such arrangements with more than 50 participants may be held for the time being. The purpose of the Regulation is to prevent the spread of the virus causing covid ‐ 19. The Swedish Public Health Agency believes that the 50th limit has been and still is an important tool in the fight against covid-19. As I have stated, among other things, in answers to parliamentary questions, the regulation will remain in place as long as it is needed. At the same time, the government is aware that many have been severely affected by the ban and that it is perceived as blunt. J ag shares the view that it is important that the ban does not unnecessarily hit activities that can be carried out in an infectious way. In the Government Office, therefore, a memorandum of relief has been drawn up. The proposals in the memo mean that the prohibition of the Regulation shall not apply to certain gatherings and events with seated participants, nor to gatherings and events held at such restaurants as are covered by the Act on Temporary Disease Control at Serving Sites. The amendments to the Regulation are proposed to enter into force on 1 October 2020. The memorandum has been sent out for consultation, and the period of referral expired on 27 August 2020. The Government will take into account the views expressed during the referral and return to the matter as soon as possible. It is health interests that must be carefully weighed against each other, and I cannot, at present, anticipate the government's handling of this particular problem. As I have stated, the Government intends, among other things, to start work on developing a more accurate regulation for disease control measures. It is clear that legislation is needed to better regulate situations where certain conventions need to be limited in order to prevent the spread of infection. An investigation will be set up to review the legislation.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-107	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The intervention is not a criticism of the ban on crowds with more than 50 people decided by the government on 27 March, but my question is forward-looking. Since the introduction of the ban on crowds, much has happened, and knowledge of both the Corona virus and how to reduce the risk of transmission has increased. At the same time, the ban inexorably beats the folk sport that the Gothenburg shipyard, Vätternrundan and Stockholm Marathon are. All these races have had to be cancelled. The fact that no major races have been carried out this year is one thing, but if the possibility of carrying out races in the future does not come soon, the situation will get worse. The organisers will soon have to decide whether to go for next year or not. The organizers with whom I have spoken agree that two years in a row without the possibility of implementing arrangements will lead to very difficult survival for the competition organisations, with the employees and the knowledge available. Madam President, I would like Exercise races may or may not be a rather peripheral issue in the context, but let me put the question into a slightly larger context. As a Gothenburger, of course, I want to highlight Gothenburg Shipyard as an illustrative example. The main race is the world's largest half-marathon and crowns a week of different sports races in all sorts of classes and disciplines. 45 000 people were registered for this year's race – 45 000 people who had Gothenburg Shipyard as a motivation for regular training and better health. However, these 45 000 participants are also an important source of revenue for industry. According to independent estimates, each Gothenburg shipyard provides approximately SEK 300 million in revenue to the tourism industry. The race is perhaps above all an important source of revenue for the city's associations. Göteborgsvarvet is run by the Gothenburg Sports Federation, but to be able to complete the race it requires a lot more help. In total, 1 500 volunteers from around thirty associations are standing up, and over the past ten years, SEK 100 million has gone back to these associations. Last year alone, SEK 14 million were divided. A similar approach exists for almost all major sports races in Sweden because they are in some form run or owned by the sports movement. So there is a great danger if there continues to be confusion about exercise. We risk an important part of Sweden's sports movement – as a motivation for everyday exercise, as an important part of the tourism industry in the affected locations and as an essential source of income for associations. Mikael Damberg states in his reply that the regulations for sitting events have been reviewed. That is, of course, a good thing, but it may not answer my question. The purpose of the exercise is, if you will excuse me, to reduce sedentary sittings. It is also by nature difficult to carry out Gothenburg Shipyard, Vätternrundan or Vasaloppet as a sitting arrangement. The Government also says that the Government will start work on developing a new, accurate regulation for disease control measures. Should I, and perhaps all the organisers of Sweden in particular, interpret it as meaning that the government will include exercise in such an investigation? If so, when will such an investigation be set up? Perhaps the most important question is: In what period of time is it the Government's ambition to have the investigation completed and the changes made?
i-GVNn2Yap985LH5NwTqe1W1	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an important interpellation, David Josefsson! Exercise and movement are important for public health, and Sweden has, throughout the pandemic, actually chosen a little way of its own in an international perspective. On the recommendations of the authorities – the Public Health Agency has to consider all public health aspects of this – we chose to try to keep up, not least, children's and young people's sports throughout the pandemic. At the same time, we have seen in my opinion terrible examples of countries where children and young people have been locked up in their apartments for a very long time. I believe that this is a danger to public health and that we need to find ways to exercise sport and exercise even during the pandemic – make people move. I believe that it is important for public health, and I think it is important for the mental health of the population that people are moving and well. The early phase – now we have reached a phase where the blunt regulations of the law of order have some rather serious consequences. The tourism industry is definitely a sector that has been hit very hard by this, and it continues to be severely affected. At first, the Public Health Agency was very careful that it did not want to see big arrangements at all, not only because of how they themselves are organized but also because of the transports there – the transports through the country. It was a phase, and now we have reached a stage where we have brought down the spread of the disease so much that we can travel in the country. Many businesses have learned how to organise activities in a more reliable way, and it is clear that it opens up new opportunities for us to learn to live in a world where new pandemics can come or where this pandemic continues. From the government's side, when we look at the law of order, we have tried to look at which activities could be those that we first open up. We chose a sector that I think is completely illogical for the vast majority: restaurants have today had activities and sitting guests, and we have had a regulation that allowed restaurants to be closed if they do not take care of their disease control measures – but if they brought in an artist who performed before the guests at the tables, it would thus be an event that would be prohibited. There are many illogical pieces in the law of order, and this is just one of them – which we are now correcting. There are many other pieces; many think about this with outdoors and indoors or large and small. Shouldn't there be a difference? There are very many restrictions in the Order Act, and that is why the government says we are going to review the legislation. If it then means that we are going to work on this particular issue there or if the issue can rather be the subject of the referrals that have both come now and that are coming forward is one thing. What can be for further relief in the future? I think an investigation will take a little longer. Nevertheless, it must define the activities to be covered by possible disease control measures. I would therefore like to say this about legislation, because it is an important message to various sectors that we cannot continue with the law of order as a basis for this. But do not expect the quick solutions there, but rather a continued discussion of the spread of infection in Sweden and whether we can make further exceptions to the law of order that exists.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-121	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister, although I may not have been much wiser about whether the government chooses to look at this question or not – and let alone when it would be done! To underline the seriousness: Although this year's big exercise race has been cancelled or carried out in a very limited form, the time frame for next year is short. Organizers will soon have to decide whether to invest in an event next season or not, and I can say that no organizer can afford to take the chance to bet on driving and then conclude that the rules do not allow it. The Gothenburg shipyard, with which I exemplified, has already announced redundancies. It is boring, because knowledge of how to arrange a large exercise race is unique and very difficult to replace once it has disappeared. The various sports races in Sweden have now merged into an industry organisation for Swedish sports races and events. They themselves note that they have not only extensive experience in organising large events with many participants, but also have very long experience in ensuring that participants who are not fully healthy do not show up. They also note that the purpose of the rules on large crowds must be to limit the spread of infection and that this in itself may not be an obstacle to carrying out exercise. They may not be able to be implemented on a full scale, but that is not what is being asked for at present either. Then the question is whether the focus should really be on the number of participants rather than on how the race can be conducted in a safe way. It becomes baroque when, for example, Lidingöloppet with current limitations is not allowed to have more than 50 participants and functionaries on the route at the same time, even though the track is 30 km long. I don't think even the government sees a risk of infection if the participants get closer than 600 meters apart. One option that the organizers themselves have highlighted, and that is practiced in other countries, is to focus on how large groups together carry out the race. Through limited starting groups and slot times when participants start, for example, you can let several groups of 30 people start with a certain time suit, so that the participants do not come into contact with any other contestants in that group. This is exactly what the Lidingöloppet wanted to do but for which the police did not give permission. Some of the organizers have appealed against the police's refusal decision precisely because they think that the rules around crowds are too strict and obviously not written with the exercise races in mind. I understand that the police are also saying that there is very little guidance on how this ban should actually be interpreted. Then you choose from the authority the most strict line for reasons of prudence. I do not think, as I said, that there is any disagreement, but everyone in here probably wants the exercise races to be able to restart their activities in an infectious way. My plea is, in fact, that the Government is speeding up its work on this issue. Will it be possible to arrange exercise next year, and under what conditions? Can we at least know which criteria will have to be met if the rules are to be relaxed? Only that I think would make it easier for a lot of organizers.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-129	Madam President, I would like I am impressed by the creativity that the exercise runs show in this rather tough situation. I don't usually sign up for a race – I'm afraid I get a little fanatical, and I try to avoid it in practice. I have seen that digital races have been carried out and that you really try to find ways to offer not least the athletes an opportunity to compete against themselves, so that they can perform what they might have put up the whole training around for a year. However, it is quite another matter to do so in a physical environment with others in regular races. I understand that there is frustration and a desire to get clearer information about what is going on in the future. The problem, as in the discussion about fairs that we had earlier, is that we are currently in a situation where we are following the spread of infection closely. We have a much lower spread of infection in Sweden today than this spring, which is a positive thing. Sweden is a little different at the moment – the spread of infection is still decreasing and is very low, while it is starting to take off in many European countries. After all, we do not want to end up in a situation where the spread of infection is taking off again in Sweden, and therefore we are gradually going through various reliefs. We have now proposed a few reliefs from 1 October. Based on this, we must assess whether the spread of the disease took off when we opened up Sweden after the summer. Did we stay even though people are back at work, at the universities and in high school? It will be an important point for the Public Health Agency to assess. If we are still in control of the spread of infection, I believe that we are prepared to enter into a deeper discussion about the gradual introduction of reliefs, and perhaps we can also come up with some longer-term information in the future. But right now, we're in a position to take the first step. I can assure you that we have listened to the exercise races. We know their arguments, and I think there are good arguments. We are aware that the legislation that is at the bottom of this is not optimal for this. However, the Public Health Agency points out that it wants to maintain the limit of 50 people because it is normative, not only for certain activities but also for private individuals' actions at weddings, funerals, parties and more. If changes are to be made here, it is important that this is done wisely, step by step and in a way that does not increase the spread of infection. The government is interested in continuing to have a good dialogue on this and about finding ways forward if we keep the spread of infection in check.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-135	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am convinced, as I said, that Mikael Damberg also wants to solve these problems. I do not believe that there is an underlying plan from the government to destroy, with the pandemic as an excuse, the sports race, which is one of the most important cornerstones of Swedish sport. What I hope I can send to the Government is that this is not really a small matter. To participate in exercise races such as Göteborgsvarvet, Vasaloppet or Vätternrundan is an important motivation for many Swedes' everyday training. But the races are more than that – they are important for Swedish tourism. The Loop creates demand for travel and hotel rooms also at times outside the high season. Perhaps most importantly, through all the volunteers who volunteer during the events, they provide important revenue sources for Sports Sweden. Madam President, I would like It has been a pleasure, in the midst of the general period of exercise, to debate everyday exercise in the floor of the House. I hope that we will soon also have a set of rules in place to make the organizers feel confident that by next year they will be able to arrange exercise in a safe way – at least that will be my motivation when I go out and run tonight. I would like to thank you for a good debate.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-140	Madam President, I would like On a personal level, I don't know if I can practice today – I still have training pains for two days, so I guess I'll have to take it easy. I agree that this is indeed a public health issue. It's about us making sure people move and exercise. That Sweden chose to go through this crisis in a way that many other countries did not, we should be proud of, but we see that the sports movement has taken and continues to take a lot of pain out of this pandemic. That was also a reason why we went in early with half a billion. Now we went in with another 1 billion, because it is also an economic issue not to break these sports structures completely. I agree that those who arrange this have a specific and unique competence that is not so easy to recreate. There are therefore good arguments, but there is also an overall responsibility that we in the government have. When we introduce relief, we do so in an orderly manner, in line with what the disease control system can allow and in a way that does not contribute to Sweden's once again increasing spread of infection. I believe that solutions can be found to this, but I also believe that we need a completely different piece of legislation in the long term to regulate this. The order law is not optimal for these types of restrictions.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-144	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I intend to act to repress the power of criminals in our society. We can never accept that police and other socially useful functions are being attacked and prevented from carrying out their tasks. Legislation must be clear that society is serious about attacks on those who are going to help others. The government has therefore introduced a new crime – sabotage of bluelight operations – and increased the punishment for aggravated violence or threats to officials. Increasing the number of police workers is a key issue in reducing crime and increasing security. More police officers are also important for the security and safety of police workers. The government's investment of 10,000 more police employees by 2024 is solid. This summer we had reached halfway to the target. This will lead to even better conditions for coping with the police's mission. The threat and violence posed by criminal networks must be tackled with the full force of society. This government delivers measures step by step that will fight crime. Criminal networks must be broken, crime must be suppressed and security increased. With the 34-point programme, we implement the largest package against gang crime ever in Sweden. The programme includes actions in the short and long term. We give new tools to the authorities and tighten the penalties, but we also ensure that we get good and long-term crime prevention work. The measures will hit the criminal gangs hard. In the recent bill on penalties for possession and smuggling of illegal weapons and explosives, a general starting point is that the new penalties should hit criminal networks particularly hard. At the same time, a special investigator has the task of, among other things, making proposals that strengthen penalties for crimes related to criminal settlements. It is also very important that witnesses dare to participate in criminal investigations. Here the government's message is clear: the culture of silence must be broken and the judicial process strengthened. This is why we have set up an investigation that will analyse, among other things, increased penalties for violations of the law and also look at protection and support for witnesses and their relatives. We must also ensure that those who want to leave the criminal environment receive the support they need. In order to strengthen the work of defectors, the government has given a mandate to four authorities to set up a national defector programme. In March, we'll get their accounts. The government is working both broadly and vigorously against serious and organised crime. It is long-term work, and we have no plans to slow down.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-154	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Mikael Damberg! There are a couple of things in the answer that I would like to have further comments on. In the written answer, we can never accept that police and other socially useful functions are being attacked and prevented from carrying out their tasks. I have a question about that. Is it not high time to change up this work? We can see that the crime in our society is not suppressed, but it is taking more and more place. Police officers are being threatened in the performance of their duties. The government's investment of 10,000 more police employees by 2024 is solid, says the answer. Shouldn't you pick up the pace and bring in more? There are other possibilities to expand society's ability to fight back at criminals. With the 34-point programme, we are implementing the largest package against gang crime ever in Sweden. However, there are only two points in what has been implemented to date. It cannot, therefore, be said that the government has at present taken decisive action. We're seeing what's going on. Policemen are exposed to threats and violence. On September 3, we saw in a news report how policemen were surrounded by a gang, and there were threats. In a newspaper article the next day, it was said in the following way: One of the cops is lifting his baton. If you move with that, you'll get it back. We don't care. Put that fucking baton away or I'll shove it up in you, one of the men will say. ..................................................... This is a pretty serious threat to an official who's doing his job. I fully understand that in such a situation one becomes anxious and calls for reinforcement. Erik Nord, chief police officer in Storgöteborg, reports that the threat to the police has consequences. "Some other intervention is not done because you don't want to expose yourself to the risk of being subjected to violence or just bored in that way," he says to TV4. ..................................................... This is where we are beginning to have the dangerous effect of this, namely that criminals are pushing back the guardians of democratic society, the police. The police have a mission to help, protect and support the public and hunt criminals and ensure that they enter a legal process and, in the case of serious crimes, end up in prison. But when criminals take the power to push back the protection of society, there is danger. I am therefore a little concerned when I read the answer from the Government. The plan of 10,000 more police employees is beautiful. I won't say anything about it. But it should rather increase in view of the situation. I am concerned about the fact that the answer is satisfied. I am also concerned that police officers, emergency services, ambulance staff and security officers are worried about going to work because they do not know what the shift will end up doing. Are you coming home, or are you going to be in a hospital? In absolute worst cases, it can even lead to the death of a person in the performance of his duties. These were some questions to which I would like answers.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-167	Madam President, I would like First of all, the work environment work for the police is very important. I have talked to the Chief of Police about this several times. He has started a very systematic work environment work together with the trade unions to see what the police can do to tighten the work environment and how to work systematically with these issues. I think it is important for the authorities to do this on their own, because that is their responsibility. They're their employees, and they have to take this seriously. I feel that things have improved. The police feel that these are important issues. It's about both equipment and a systematic approach to this. I'm a little careful to do too much advertising for criminal gangs, whether they're cocking or rushing the police. Of course, sometimes police officers have to make tactical balances of situations, but my picture is that the police have no intention of backing back. With the more offensive attitude of the police against the criminal gangs, they are more on them. You bother them a lot more in their everyday lives. These are both pure drug trafficking, or whatever it may be, and other economic activities in which they engage and engage in criminal activities. My message and my picture is that the Swedish police are moving forward and not back. And they do so by virtue of their new companions. The fact that they have more colleagues means that they can also be more offensive, no matter where they are. There was a picture of the police backing up from the affected areas. However, I note that the Police Authority has now said that there are about 16% more employees in local police areas that have vulnerable areas today than a few years ago. People have thus been replenished in areas where the greatest criminal influence has been found. Should we, then, increase the rate more than 10,000? I noticed that when we said that we would increase by 10,000 employees by 2024, many people claimed that it would not work, that it will not work, that people will not want to become police officers and that many will drop out. We are now ahead of the forecast, and we have come more than halfway. But so far there have been many civilian workers, since training police officers takes two and a half years. There is enormous pressure on police training, in relation to the tough challenges that the police face in their daily lives. We last had 20,000 applicants for about 1,000 places in police training. Now in the pandemic... maybe it's a pandemic effect... we see that more elderly people are looking for it. It is a little wider among those who are seeking; it is not just the young who want to become policemen now. I think we have a good dynamic in police growth right now. However, I would like to warn you of one thing. I saw that the Swedish Democrats said the other day that they are considering short-term training for police officers. I don't believe in that idea. I think the police are facing such a complex everyday life, as you yourself describe, that they must have both good education and security in their professional role as a police officer. The Police Federation has warned A and B officers. The head of state doesn't want a short-term police officer. If we were to introduce a short-term trained police officer, I personally fear that this would put a great deal of pressure on the salaries and conditions of existing police officers. We have often seen that when a professional category receives another category of lower education next to it, it can be used instead of, as in this case, police officers. There will therefore be pressure on terms and salaries. I do not think it would be good for the Swedish police in this phase of growth. I would therefore like to warn against the short-term solutions, which do not really meet the problem picture facing the police today. I rather believe that we need to further strengthen police training with further academic content so that we can move forward from police training in the future.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-176	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Short-term training of police officers is nothing new. It's been done before. They offered personnel within the Swedish Armed Forces to undergo police training. These had a lot to do with their military training. I do not want to say that the Armed Forces would be particularly bad at educating individuals. They are, if nothing else, admittedly good leaders. One could very well go the way to use an already existing competence and put on that last one to get a good cop out on the road. I hold here in my hand a judgment from Lidköping District Court. It dates from 2005 and is therefore somewhat old. However, it is interesting because it concerns threats to police officers. It's about two individuals. There had been a phone call from an unknown number on Christmas Day. Some voiced threats to the telephone responder and the telephone individual's wife. We're talking about myself here. It was about three young men who had not got what they wanted at a checkpoint. They had then decided to target a threat. They mapped my wife, who at the time was head of the PKC, and she worked on Christmas Day. I then made contact with the officer in charge, and a process was initiated. What do I want to tell you about this? Well, I know exactly how these cops experience the situation when they're exposed to threats. When we went out to town and went into a store, I stayed outside with my back against a wall to keep track of who went into the store, while my wife was in there. This is the situation that police are experiencing. This is a long time ago; it was Christmas Day 2004. There has been a dramatic change in the years since then, and it has not been for the better. That is why I think it is extremely important for society to mark against those who are trying to take power in society. It is society, the state and the police who should be in power. It is the police that are the tools of parliament and government to maintain law and order. No one else should. Law and order must be based on the democratic decisions taken, among other things, in this House. All too often, justice takes place in the streets. Last night a deceased person was found on a bridge at Årsta. According to the last I read before I came here, someone had been active in some criminal gang; they thought it was a deal. We now see this day after day in Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö and some places. It is time for the state and society to take control of the situation. This means strengthening the working situation of the policemen out there and, by all means, of emergency services, ambulance staff, security officers and others who have a community mission to help and protect. I think the government is a little too defensive in this work. The government said you're a little ahead of the 10,000 schedule. It's great, but change up a little so we get more! We need it if society is to be safe and secure for the ordinary citizen.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-184	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with Thomas Morell that we need a stronger society and that the police should own the monopoly of violence in Sweden. The law applies equally to everyone in our country. It's hugely important. That's why we're making historically big investments in the police. The police authority is well aware that police officers in external service are in a rather vulnerable position and therefore work very much with the work environment issues. The objective now seems to be that all police officers in external service should have portable cameras on them – for greater security and to be able to prosecute, for example, threats, harassment or blue light sabotage in the future; you can then document it directly for use in future trials. I believe that this is a positive development. I'm really sorry about what happened in 2004. It is terrible when you suffer from it, also so close to the family. What has happened since 2005 includes the fact that from 1 January we have a completely new law on sabotage against blue light operations. It's a team that ambulance personnel, rescue services and policemen have in their backs. It will be severe punishment if you attack bluelight personnel or prevent bluelight personnel. It is enough to go after, for example, their dogs or police cars. It will have an effect through today's legislation with stricter penalties. A few years ago– I don't remember exactly when it was – we also tightened the penalty for gross violence or threats to officials. It is not only police officers who must now be mobilised against gangs, but it is also the case that officials at different levels, for example, should say no to granting permits or should intervene with an audit of an activity. Then it is important that officials in the service of the state or the municipality feel that they have society in their backs and that there will be severe punishment if it turns out that someone is trying to upset the important principles that the law applies equally to everyone and that authorities actually have the right to make decisions on such matters. So I share the picture, and I will continue to work for this. My most important task, which many thought was impossible, is to ensure that we have a stronger police presence throughout Sweden. I've said it from day one, and that's what I work with all the time. So far, things have gone better than I thought. I thought it would be difficult to reach 10,000, and I still think so, but so far we are a little ahead of the growth path. Only for the year that will come, we propose in the budget that the Police Authority should receive SEK 1.9 billion more in order to continue the growth journey. I don't think the police have the ability to grow much faster than they do right now. You don't ask for short-term police officers now. You're asking for highly trained police officers in the difficult reality you're facing. My ambition is not to lower the requirements to police training. On the other hand, there is today a training course for police officers, which looks at military personnel and some other professions that have knowledge of bomb management or certain investigative activities. For them, a functional police training course is conducted with a high educational pace. This allows you to speed up your way into police training without lowering the requirements for becoming a police officer. I think that's a very exciting way into the police profession. In this way, more categories, including specialists needed by the police in their activities, can get a way into the police profession.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-191	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Mikael Damberg for his answer. Now it is important to really lift all the opportunities and see which way we can go forward to protect society and protect the individuals in society – the ordinary honest citizens who feel insecurity. When the TV teams are out in the residential areas where there are shootings, those who live there, and who in most cases are ordinary honest citizens, testify that the bullets literally wine around their heads. Society must go in and take decisive action against those who take the liberty of having an alternative administration of justice. These individuals act as police, prosecutor, judge and ultimately executioner. This is what's so scary. You take power in society. They threaten the police in good faith to get them to back off, and of course they do so if they are only two in a patrol and do not have reinforcements around them. That's for granted. You show your power, and you take power in society. I think it's great that the government has invested in 10,000 new police officers, but I think it's too little. Since it is such a long time span from taking people into the field until they are in the field, there is every reason to widen the horizon and look at how to increase the pace. Nothing indicates that the criminals are backing back, but they only take more place in society and show their power. Unfortunately, last summer we also read that this struck a 12-year-old girl who was shot to death. I think it is a great shame that we have this activity in our society.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-195	Madam President, I would like We should not get used to the violence of the gang criminals. They terrorize our daily lives and our freedom, and they will be pushed back. We must do so together with the full power of society. I really share the image of the inhabitants of the most vulnerable areas. They're very tired of the violence, and they're frustrated. Getting that power to target the criminal gangs and to ensure that they are not allowed to continue their drug sales, not to stand outside the centres and drag young people into crime and, above all, not to use weapons and explosives for their own settlements in society is a huge priority. Then I think we must dare to keep making sure that the police, as I have mentioned, are growing and that they are not backing away, as the honourable Member is concerned about. Right now, I think we have 3,000 police officers in the education system. When they get out, they'll be able to be hired. I think it is expected to employ about 1,200 new police officers this year, which will fill up with police officers all over the country. I think the police authorities are counting on putting up 150 new cameras this year in the most crime-prone places. We tighten the penalties, including for the weapons crimes but also in several other parts. We remove the penalty discount for young adults in serious crime. One such suggestion is out now. We also provide the police with new tools to be able to work with digital evidence and such to get to the criminal gangs. I believe that it is also necessary for more actors, such as schools and social services, to make sure that young people are not drawn into the criminal environment. The police are calling for more social debate in Sweden; they notice that it is not enough to cage people if there are young people who are drawn into these environments. More efforts are needed in schools, social services and prevention in order to succeed in this important work.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-199	Madam President, I would like Magnus Jacobsson has asked me questions about railway planning. The January agreement, the substantive political agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party, states that new high-speed trains will be completed so that Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö and regions and cities along and along the track are better connected with modern and sustainable communications. New high-speed trains are a very large project. It is important that it is carefully analysed, including how the runways are to be financed. The Government has therefore in June this year given Trafikverket a special assignment to report updated and additional information regarding new main tracks within a total investment framework of SEK 205 billion, in 2017 price level. At the same time, Trafikverket was also tasked with developing a focus paper for the work on a new national plan, which will be presented on 30 October this year. On 31 August this year, the Finnish Transport Agency submitted a first, initial, interim report on the assignment of new main routes, which contains comprehensive analyses and assessments for the Finnish Transport Agency's continued work. The Swedish Transport Administration is now continuing its mission to develop a deeper basis and to conduct a dialogue on how the new main roads can be designed. The full mandate shall be reported by 28 February 2021 at the latest. The overall report of the assignment together with the Finnish Transport Administration's focus paper will form the basis for the infrastructure proposal that the Government intends to present next year. The proposal should be about how the infrastructure should be developed and managed in 12 or 16 years. Trafikverkets r edoviskning aims to provide a basis for, among other things, positions on continued planning work and finance in the expansion of new main roads. The development of new main routes will be done with sustainable funding and with a very high level of cost control in the project at a rate that the economy allows. Finally: N ya main rail lines are needed to meet the rapidly increasing train travel, provide the opportunity for more freight on trains and increase commuter trains' opportunity in the current train system, as it is full on the Swedish rail one. More capacity is needed. It modernises and connects the country in a climate-smart way.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-204	Madam President, I would like In the Swedish National Audit Office's report Thinking ahead – the state's planning of high-speed railways – a damn good name, incidentally – it states that the planning process has not had an unconditional character. The report states that planning is based on the solution rather than the problem. The planning has not been carried out in accordance with the four-step principle. Socio-economic efficiency has not been an important criterion. The decisions have so far been taken in the wrong order. The costs of the project were long underestimated. Based on this, the Swedish National Audit Office recommended identifying the shortcomings in relation to the transport policy objectives that the high-speed railway is intended to solve. It is a question of examining alternative solutions that can remedy the identified shortcomings on the basis of the four-step principle. In particular, it involves examining steps 1, such as charges and taxes, in order to achieve more efficient capacity utilisation, but also steps 2 and 3, measures such as optimisation and trimming measures. It is also a question of carrying out comprehensive efficiency assessments of the main options and comparing them with integrated efficiency assessments for high-speed rail. Madam President, I would like It was very wise to choose between two different objects. I think that the Swedish National Audit Office has highlighted good thoughts that we should take with us in politics. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Transport Administration has now also delivered an interim report on high-speed trains. According to the above section, the Swedish Transport Administration's assessment is that the cost of main roads lies in the upper range of previously reported cost assessments. This means that it will require major and extensive changes to the system in order to reach the cost framework of SEK 205 billion on which this assignment is based. Madam President, I would like From a Christian Democrat point of view, we have been clear that we want to see a strengthening of the current rail system. We also believe that in parts of Sweden new main roads are needed to improve both international traffic within the Nordic triangle and improve rail capacity for passenger and freight within Sweden. The question is why, despite these critical reports, the government continues to hold on to a project that is in all likelihood not socially viable. A little mean, Madam President: could this be the fact that the Transport Agency is now changing the basis for the calculation of infrastructure planning by increasing the CO2 calculations per kilogram from SEK 1 to SEK 7 which we have debated earlier in this House?
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-210	Madam President, I would like We have had discussions on socio-economic calculations and profitability several times. I very much appreciate those discussions because it is important that we try and have a careful calculation of what projects we spend taxpayers' money on and what priorities we do. At the same time, the calculations should be assessed on the basis of what they really are. I note that the socio-economic profitability calculations a while ago stated that the metro in Stockholm was not profitable. It wasn't the City Line and it wasn't the City Tunnel. Several of the infrastructure objects that are now essential to us have previously been judged by economists as socially unprofitable. Norrbotniabanan is another object that economists sometimes point out would not be profitable. What if the Norrbotnia Line had been built by now? It was stopped by Magnus Jacobsson's party friends in the alliance government in 2006. Otherwise, there was a decision to build it. It had been in place now along the Norrland coast in a location where Northvolt established itself and when we have a structural change that could have increased the labour market region. We could have multiplied climate-smart journeys along the Norrland coast for both the promotion of work commuting and, of course, for companies that want to send more goods by rail. It's about creating a long-term perspective. It is about taking responsibility for the investment decisions you want to make. From our side we have been clear that we need new main courses. We have significant capacity problems in the Swedish rail system. I thought that the alliance government realized when they launched the Swedish negotiations and wanted to invest in new main tracks for high-speed trains as late as 2014. But it didn't take long for you to shake your cuffs. The Christian Democrats and the Moderates approached, just as if we are looking at other policy areas, at a high rate the Swedish Democrats in positions that are rather about lowering petrol prices and not building climate-smart infrastructure. It's a development that worries me. Sweden needs the courage to take decisions in order to change the transport sector in order to ensure that we achieve the objectives set for us by the Paris Agreement. It is about reducing emissions by 70% by 2030 and making sure that fossil-free transport is achieved by 2045. That's why it's urgent. That is why it is important to take the necessary decisions to increase the capacity of the rail system. Hence the focus decision and the discussion that we need new main courses. Then we produce solid data. Not least, it has been necessary because – as the Swedish National Audit Office points out – there were shortcomings in some data that were produced during the time we had an alliance government. Since then we have done a great many calculations. Since then, we also have a solid basis. Not least with the latest interim report from Trafikverket, we now have even better opportunities to make wise and well-founded decisions about what investments will look like in the future, but also the infrastructure as a whole. I look forward to having several discussions and debates with Magnus Jacobsson. I know that Magnus Jacobsson himself sees the need to increase the capacity of the rail system. I am surprised and, in fact, a little disappointed that the Christian Democrats have nevertheless turned in their eagerness to approach the Swedish Democrats. This gives the message to all those in Jönköping, Borås, Norrköping and Linköping who have believed and invested in the main railway project. They are the ones who provide municipal land to build housing and who want to see an enlargement of the labour market, and so they are told that the Christian Democrats no longer believe in and support this project. I'm sorry about that. We keep our word. We think it is important that we invest in developing main courses in Sweden.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-219	Madam President, I would like It is with the greatest surprise that I note that the Government obviously has a very low level of confidence in the overall socio-economic assessments. I must admit that this concerns me. When we as politicians go forward and build various projects – which I have had the privilege of doing both as local and regional politicians, and I now have the privilege of sitting on the Transport Committee – it is about prioritising. No party and no government will ever have as much money as any wishes, at least not at one time. We will always be forced to give priority. If there is then a project – in this case the Swedish hearing – which receives great criticism that it is not sufficiently prepared and substantiated and does not have a sufficiently stable financial planning, one as a politician must be able to do a little bit of slipperyness and look at it again. At the same time, Madam President, I understand that the Government stands by and stands by this. You could almost say as in the poems – that he holds the bridge. Now that he is a firm hand in hand with the Green Party, which wants nothing more than to lay down all the flights, stop all roads and ensure that the rural population uses horses and carriages instead of transporting itself fairly quickly between different urban areas, it becomes of course problematic. From the Christian Democrats' side, we are warm friends of all infrastructure, so and so on the railways. The railway's main strengths are in freight transport over long distances. They also exist when expanding labour market regions. We can look at what has happened around Stockholm and Mälardalen, we can see the impact of Pågatågen and we can see how it is in West Sweden. I personally believe that we also need to look at rail reinforcements in Norrland, because we are seeing how labour market regions are becoming increasingly important. This is what we, as Christian Democrats, have highlighted when we talk about high-speed trains. We have highlighted that, based on the reports that come and on the risks of costs that exist, we see that this can be a cuckoo, which naturally improves for those who are where the tracks go – if you now have a station. Here, too, we see risks when we move stations and perhaps thus have less connection to the urban areas. But what about the whole area in the rest of Sweden where you may not have this effect? After all, we still do not see what alternative funding should be like. We do not see this solution, and we have not had it presented to us. Then it cannot be avoided that this large, expensive project – which according to the investigations that exist may be more expensive than we think – will be a cuckoo compared to the other projects. For us Christian Democrats, it is somewhere important that the whole country should live.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-226	Madam President and Magnus Jacobsson! I understand that it can sometimes be tempting to point to any party and make it guilty of the government's or many's position. Magnus Jacobsson here chooses to criticise the Green Party. But I can tell you that there are many within the Christian Democrats who think that new high-speed main rails are an excellent project. There are chambers of commerce not only in West Sweden but in almost the whole of Sweden that think this is absolutely necessary. There are Moderates, Center Partyists, Social Democrats and people in all parties who think that this is something that Sweden needs. Sweden needs this both to meet the climate requirements and to meet the capacity challenge in the rail system. But it is also a question of the labour market commuting working, because today it is crowded on the tracks. I left last year with the millionth train, and I chose to mark it to show that there have never been so many trains that have gone on the Swedish rail system. It's tight. Should the commuter trains fit? Are we going to be able to ensure more labour market supply through climate-smart transport? Shall we make room for the freight trains? Then we'll have to build more railroad. That's why we need new main courses. They relieve not least the Western Tribal Line and the Southern Tribal Line. There is strong support in Jönköping, Borås, Norrköping, Linköping and Hässleholm. There is also a disappointment that the Christian Democrats and the Moderates dropped out of the project that they said just a few years ago was absolutely necessary for Sweden. As far as the economy is concerned, it goes without saying that we are not letting bad estimates through. We will be extremely careful with the follow-up of infrastructure planning costs and objects. That's always the case. My whole act, not least here in Parliament, has been about this. I came in 1994 and had to start cleaning up after the then bourgeois government, which left behind huge budget deficits and a record government debt. We will always ensure that we keep an eye on the economy, but it must not be an obstacle to daring to make well-founded decisions on investment in infrastructure and stick to them. If Sweden is to cope with the competitiveness of the world around us, if we are to be able to provide good conditions for the goods to quickly get out into the world's export markets and if we are to meet the climate challenge and labour supply as labour market regions grow, we must also be able to make decisions. In this case, it is about taking courageous decisions about even more investment, not least in infrastructure. This is one of the reasons why we requested detailed information from Trafikverket, which we received a while ago. We will receive additional support both for a specialization proposal and for an infrastructure proposal. Of course, we will also have a basis for the development of new high-speed rail lines. It is crucial that we are on our feet when making the final decisions, but it is also crucial that we can maintain that Sweden needs to increase the capacity of the rail system. My question back to Magnus Jacobsson is what I have asked a number of times before: What is the Christian Democrats' answer to all those who live in Jönköping, Borås, Norrköping, Linköping, Hässleholm and Lund? It has been planned for housing construction, for labour market enlargement and for investment in new main roads. There, companies set up because they see that they are getting faster on export markets or otherwise getting improved service. And more people are delighted that in the future you do not have to be squeezed on the road 40, E6 or E22 but can travel climate smartly with trains on the railway instead. What news do the Christian Democrats give to them when you do not want to invest in building new main roads?
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-237	Madam President, I would like I and the Government have had the privilege of debating this before, and the Government knows very well that the Christian Democrats have not said no to new tribal paths. The Christian Democrats have said no to the Swedish negotiation and the structure that is there. We have criticised it on the basis that, so far, no sustainable economic analysis, whether socio-economic or how it is to be financed, has been reported. We have had a number of debates in this House where, on my part, it has been sought and heard and longed for the national plan. After all, it's been running out of time, but now it's on its way. I think that is a good thing, because then perhaps we can have an overall discussion on these important issues. The Christian Democrats are generally in favour of rail, but it is necessary that it be built on the basis of a socio-economic analysis and that it be built on the basis of a good one. But we are also in favour of aviation, road traffic, cycling, shipping and the other modes of transport, because we must have a Sweden that stays together. It cannot be that individual investments must block other necessary investments. This means that we as politicians must be able to put investments against each other, and then they must also be calculated in such a way that we can rely on the evidence. Therefore, it is serious when you change the basis of calculation, for example on carbon dioxide, from SEK 1 to SEK 7. This means that it will be difficult to have confidence in the data supplied. I understood from the outset that the Government itself has a lack of confidence in the evidence. I think we need them. We need more rail, but we also need more road in Sweden.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-241	Madam President, I would like Of course, a national plan should not just include investments in rail. Although the current national plan contains the largest rail investment in modern times, which I am proud of, it is also the first national plan that includes a proper government investment on bicycle and, for that matter, a multiple investment on shipping. In addition, we are now in a position to see that we need to continue to speed up the development of sustainable aviation, be it biofuels or electric aircraft. There we also make efforts from the government with innovation and development. I will visit the electric aircraft a little later in September and watch when you demonstrate that development. I can say this because I represent a government that invests more in infrastructure than the previous bourgeois government did. We invest SEK 100 billion more because we value investments in what builds Sweden strongly more than tax reductions. It may be that some of the Christian Democrats' doubts about infrastructure investments stem from seeing tax cuts rather than investments. This is a debate I look forward to taking forward, because Sweden needs to invest. We cannot face the climate crisis with tax cuts. We cannot cope with international competitiveness with tax cuts. We must dare to invest in what builds Sweden strong and holds it together strongly. In 2006, the then alliance government chose to lift the Norrbotnia Line. It would have been built otherwise, to the benefit it would have been for the whole of northern Sweden – for the labour market, for the export industry there, for climate-smart travel. Instead, priority was given to job tax deductions 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. Seriously: somewhere we must also have the courage to choose investments. From my point of view and from the government's point of view, it is self-evident, not least to become the world's first fossil-free welfare nation.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-246	Mr President, I would like to There's almost one shooting a day and almost one murder a week. Children grow up in crime, children are minions and children are shot to death. I'm sure Stefan Löfven is just as horrified by this violence as all of us. But that is not enough, because with power follows the responsibility to do what is necessary. Year after year, the Prime Minister promises, as it is said, to destroy crime. He promised it in this hall in the Government Declaration last Tuesday, as in last year's Government Declaration as well as in 2018, 2017, 2016, 2015 and 2014. Since the gangs started firing seriously, the Prime Minister has promised each year to deal with them but failed. Now there is a need for pattern-breaking measures, not adjustments in the margin. The government has said no to basically anything that could seriously make a difference and that has produced results in Denmark. And what the government does it half-heartedly. Two out of 34 points have been implemented. Today, the Moderates presented a package of proposals for ten pattern-breaking measures against the gangs. They both fight and prevent. These are search zones to find weapons and explosives, anonymous witnesses, bans on participation in criminal gangs and expulsions for those who are not Swedish citizens. Nine of our ten proposals could become a reality during this term of office, even before Stefan Löfven resigns as Prime Minister. Is the government ready to implement one of the ten pattern breaking proposals of the Moderates? If so, what?
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-250	Mr President, I would like to To crack gang crime, it takes a few things. It requires a sufficiently dimensioned police force, and it must have enough tools. It is necessary to tighten up the laws. And we need to slow down the inflow into crime. There are three supporting elements. We've never had as many policemen as we have right now. But we need more. I believe that police training shrunk to a minimum during Kristersson's first year as a minister. The number of places in education has never been as low as then. Now we have doubled the number of police training places and hired more police officers. We're gonna have more cops. The police have also been given tools. We've tightened 50 laws and added 20 new crimes. Of course, we are also working on prevention. To do is to get along as well. Here, as in a number of other areas, the Moderates have not managed to stay at the negotiating table and actually get along. What the police are saying to us is, ‘Now find the long-term, broad agreements that hold no matter who has government power!' The Moderates can't do that. We do, and we will continue to do. The gang crime is about to be broken. I haven't had a chance to watch the Moderate ten-point program. But I've seen one thing where you're second on the ball again. It's about more gang members being expelled. We think so, and we're on that ball investigating it. It's all right to suggest. We would like suggestions for more things. But it would also be good if we could at some point sit down and make an agreement on something that we should continue to do. We're gonna break the gangs.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-257	Mr President, I would like to In any case, I understand that the government would like, as it says, to investigate unconditionally one of our ten proposals. Otherwise, you want agreements, Stefan Löfven. The 34 points you put forward – we said right away that we have no problems with them, but they will not break the gangs – and of which you have implemented two, you therefore think we should have made an agreement. I don't think that's enough. That is why we have put forward proposals for ten concrete model-breaking changes in which we learn from the experience of other countries. Those countries had less problems than we have, but they have done more, and they may have less problems than we have because they have done more. That's what it takes. You're talking about breaking gang crime. But you don't do what you have to do. It's very hard to understand. Are you ready to implement these proposals? If the answer is no, say so and stand up for that position!
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-260	Mr President, I would like to Thankfully, Swedish legislative work does not work in the way that you present a programme in the morning and then have answers on all points in the afternoon. The 34 points, which the Moderates apparently thought was good, are now being implemented. Kristersson, who has been in a government, should know that the legislative changes that need to be made require investigations. Referral is required. Systematic work is needed. This is how Swedish legislation works. We can also look back, at what has been done in terms of penalties, police officers and education, and at the examples that are actually successful at the moment. There's no guarantee. But it looks better in Malmö, it looks better in Uppsala and it looks better in Södertälje. We have to hold on to the gangs to break. But we're also going to look at what actually works.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-265	Mr President, I would like to In view of the President's reminder that the House is large and that we do not have to sit right next to each other, I would like to say that we can now sit quite close to me. I've got a response to my covid-19 test, and I'm not infected with this terrible virus. That's what I got to say. Mr President, I would like to I intend to continue on the Danish track and the situation in Sweden. The Prime Minister now says that a great deal has been done. We've got more cops than ever. Many reforms linked to criminal policy that have been implemented are the greatest ever and so on. Nevertheless, progress continues in the wrong direction. The shootings have increased during Stefan Lövven's time in power. I was the other day in Denmark and discussed with Danish politicians what has been done that we in Sweden have not done, and I got with me very interesting back. You have double penalties for gang crime, you have search zones, you don't have a lot of discounts for young people and others, you don't have paroles and so on. In Denmark today there are fewer gang members than in the whole of Stockholm County. The shootings have fallen considerably. A very large part of the gang criminals are in prison. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is and appears to be like Bullerbyn in comparison with Denmark when it comes to the gang criminals. Now I'm not particularly interested in hearing more about what Stefan Löfven thinks he and this government have done. We know that, and it is obvious that it has not been enough. That's not enough. What I am interested in is what Stefan Löfven intends to do in the future to really get to gang crime, clan mentality and clan crime. Mr President, I would like to Why is it that Denmark has succeeded so much better than Sweden under Stefan Lövven's rule?
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-271	Mr President! We have a very good cooperation with Denmark and should have so. Of course we should learn from other countries too. This cooperation and dialogue are ongoing. We have no reason not to learn from what you do in other countries. But Denmark differs from Sweden in the other direction. We're actually tougher when it comes to life. Denmark often releases prisoners earlier than we do. So there are differences in both directions, but we are fully aware that we can learn. This increase in the penalties for gang crimes is something that we are already in the process of doing. That is what is so strange: there are many proposals on things that are already under way. Just look at the list and see what's already being done. Similarly, we want to remove the youth rebate on serious crimes for those over the age of 18. Then you might think we should do even more. I have full respect for that. But do not pretend that nothing is done! It is precisely because of this that prisons are almost full. There are a lot of gang criminals who are now in prison. What we need to do more at the same time is to ensure that the supply of young men in particular is stopped, and that requires other measures. We need to work with both parts, both to show the severity of the crimes here and now – it's about the police, the punishment and all this – and to ensure that the young men are not drawn into crime. Then it is an equal school, job and social services and other such activities that are needed – a strong civil society that cooperates to prevent crime. We need to do both.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-276	Mr President, I would like to Much of what the Prime Minister presents here are things that we have been running for very many years. It's good that you take it to heart and now you're ready to do things. Unfortunately, however, my view is that this will not be enough. It is not clear how strong these structures are. Of course we have to work preventively. It is clear that we must ensure that people can have a meaningful life, have a job to go to and get an education and so on. But that is not what is required here and now to put an end to gang crime. What is required here and now is to lock up those who are dangerous and who are currently in free streets and squares. This is something that has been achieved in Denmark. There, double penalties are imposed if crime is related to gang crime. You don't let them out half-time or two-thirds. You don't give discounts. It is this kind of repressive measures that are needed to reverse developments.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-279	Mr President, I would like to That's exactly where I said it was more common in Denmark, i.e. that they are released after half the time. This is not how we do things in Sweden. As I said, the police get better tools. Let me mention a few of them: the right to read encrypted communications, secret coercive measures, increased right of search, increased presumption of arrest and more rapid prosecution. This with faster prosecution is already working the police in Stockholm, and it is a popular feature. We must be tough on crime, but we must also be quick on crime. Time has been cut short. Then I can mention automatic camera surveillance and increased possibilities for confiscation of criminals' assets. We have already decided this once, but we will do more, because they should not have watches, fine cars or cash a masse. It is important that we see the breadth of what needs to be done and do so as quickly as possible. We need to be firm about breaking gang crime.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-283	Mr President, I would like to The preservation of the so-called venereal model has in recent years been an extremely profiled issue for the Prime Minister and the Social Democrats. However, those who have listened carefully have been able to hear that the defence of the Swedish model has taken very different forms depending on the arena in which the debate has been conducted. At home, it has been stressed how important it is for the parties to determine the conditions of the Swedish labour market. At the same time, efforts have been made to move more power over welfare and the labour market to Brussels by affirming what is called the social pillar. Time and again, the Center Party, myself and many others have pointed out the risks of this. We have pointed out how the Social Democrats risk doing the Swedish model a great disservice. The Prime Minister has repeatedly waved away my concerns and those of many others that the European Commission would, by extension, demand statutory minimum wages. In this House, the Prime Minister said only last year that we should not have directives in this area. He said that he thinks it is right to seek fair conditions in his labour market. But it should not be at the expense of the Swedish model. We have the world's best wage-setting system. ..................................................... So judge my surprise when this week on Aftonbladet's debate page the Social Democrats turned to the Center Party and the other bourgeois parties for us to take responsibility and stop this. It presents itself as appalled that the European Commission is expected to propose binding EU rules on minimum wages. This is exactly what we have been warning about for many years! Can the Prime Minister today admit that it was wrong for him to fight so hard to move more power over the Swedish labour market to Brussels and that he was wrong when he criticised me and many others for pointing out that this was a direct threat to the Swedish model?
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-289	Mr President, I would like to For the first time, I assume that we all stand up for the Swedish model. I'm doing it and I'm gonna keep doing it. Secondly, we have never ever pushed more power to move to Brussels. Thirdly, the social pillar does not mean this. It's something else. It is a structure for how people in different countries can ensure improving their working conditions, easier access to work, better working conditions and better protection when unable to work. That's three good pillars. I think it is important for employees across Europe to have this opportunity. But the whole social pillar is based on national self-determination. That was the whole point of departure. I was involved in this. The issue of statutory minimum wage has nothing to do with the social pillar. It has been running in Europe for a long time, long before the social pillar came into being, and I still dislike the idea of a directive on this. There should be no directive on this. That's exactly why I said what I did. I do not think it should be a directive. If it's one of those, I mean it's wrong. This threatens the Swedish model. If we now stand up for the Swedish model together, we can work together to ensure that this does not happen. This has nothing to do with the social pillar. I stand by what I think: we probably have the world's best wage-setting system, and then we'll stand up for it, of course. Here the parties are involved. Here we are engaged. I believe that all parties are, and I think we have a consensus in the Swedish Parliament on how to deal with this. I also know that the Minister for Employment has a continuous dialogue with the committee. We will make sure to defend the Swedish model.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-296	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is correct that we are many parties who want to protect the Swedish model. That is why we were also concerned about this in the debate a number of years ago when the social pillar was up. At the time, there was a discussion about statutory minimum wages and about moving more power over the Swedish labour market to Brussels. That wages and conditions on the labour market should be determined by the parties and that power should lie in Sweden and not in Brussels are things that we have felt for a long time and will continue to stand for. However, what concerns me is that the Prime Minister so flagrantly ignored all the warnings that were clear, including from the parties, while we discussed the social pillar. I find it remarkable, not to say flagrant, that this week the Social Democrats are trying to shift responsibility on us bourgeois parties instead. A few years ago, the Social Democrats for the social pillar wrung with all its risks. Let's see what it means.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-299	Mr President, I would like to I think Annie Lööf should read the social pillar and do it thoroughly. There's no mention of a statutory minimum wage. It doesn't even come close to it. The social pillar is one thing, and that is another. Unfortunately, this minimum wage has been running in Europe for a long time. But do not link it with the social pillar! I would, however, believe and hope that we have a common understanding that employees in other countries of Europe should also have the right conditions. You should have the opportunity to work, and the work should be safe, with good working conditions and a good working environment. And if you don't have a job, you should have some protection. There's nothing wrong with this. I would like to see this development in Europe, because it is also a way of strengthening the Swedish model. Swedish employees will not be threatened by worse conditions. We should stand up for this together, as we stand up for not wanting a directive on minimum wages.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-304	Mr President, I would like to It was very gratifying to hear both the Social Democrats and the Center Party stand up for the Swedish model of negotiations instead of directives and legislation. One advice can then be not to threaten the parties with legislation if they do not voluntarily break the security of employment. But my question concerns the budget. The draft budgets are now being rolled out. Much more money is spent on tax cuts than on welfare, despite the great needs of municipalities and regions. One of the most controversial tax cuts is the reduction of employers' contributions for young people. Here's what the Prime Minister said in his first May 2015: Friends! Our absolute greatest task in employment policy is to ensure that no young person is without a job. For eight years, the only solution of the government – the bourgeois government – has been a youth discount for those who already have young employees. It has cost close to 110 billion. It has been condemned by an expert body after an expert body, and youth unemployment has increased by over 30 000. Yet the Right refuses to reconsider. If Möller was right that every squandered tax crown is a theft from the people, this is billions of dollars. Mr President, I would like to It's a shame to repeat the scam twice. It is unfortunate if one repeats the same mistake that has already cost the taxpayer SEK 110 billion. My question to the Prime Minister is simply: Is the Prime Minister sticking to his 2015 analysis – that this is a billion-dollar fraud?
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-310	Mr President, I would like to As far as the budget is concerned, you might want to see the whole budget before you speak too clearly about what is included in it. I believe that Jonas Sjöstedt will see a lot of very good things in the budget in terms of welfare, employment and other parts. Stimulating an economy in a deep crisis is something other than dealing with an economy that is not in deep crisis. Doing something temporary for people to get to work is exactly what we are doing. I can readily admit that this is not my first choice-- it's not that. But we've put together a budget. I believe that anyone who cooperates on a budget must come out of the negotiations with something they want. And if at some point something is to be done as a temporary measure, as this is, it is right now, to get the economy going. We will do a lot in the field of work. The focus on welfare and public consumption will mean that more people will be employed in care for the elderly, in health care and in school. That's a big bet. It is the same with the investment we are making in public investment. It will bring work. Investing in education will enable people to move forward. These efforts are therefore important. Then we have also agreed that the youth worker's contribution should be reduced temporarily, for two years.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-314	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister devotes a very small part of his response to defending the reduction in employers' contributions for young people. I understand that. It is a cost that is difficult to defend, and we know that the effect is very limited. Here's what Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson said about the same reform: In addition to being inefficient and leading to no new jobs, the reform is also very costly for taxpayers. ..................................................... Now, then, the same mistakes should be made again. Money that could have gone to actually increase the purchasing power of low-income earners or that could have gone to hiring more in the care of the elderly should instead be wasted on a My question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister think that it would give more jobs to use the entire amount to increase the number of employees in care for the elderly than to carry out this reduction in the social security contributions for young people?
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-319	Mr President, I would like to Now I cannot stand by and comment on the whole budget. We'll have to do that when the budget is ready. Then we'll have to put this against the other options. When the entire budget is ready, we will also see all the measures being implemented, not least in the area of jobs. It will be a lot, and it will be wide. That's how it has to be. We should also remember that this situation is not like any other we have had. We are in the midst of a pandemic of young people who have gone into unemployment. Then you have to see a whole palette. That is quite right: this is not my first choice. But, of course, the four parties that are cooperating have added what we want to do, and we have negotiated and come to that conclusion. I'll take care of it. It is a temporary measure in a unique time.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-323	Mr President, I would like to We have jointly in Sweden this year taken responsibility for protecting older people and risk groups. We can be proud of the solidarity that people have shown with their neighbor. Everyone has sacrificed something, but those who have sacrificed most are our elders and risk groups. Many of them have had to isolate themselves for months. Some have seen life run by on the other side of the window. Others have seen life finally run past them without having to say a genuine farewell to beloved sons, daughters, and grandchildren. We are all waiting for the vaccine that can give us a clear end to the pandemic, but for these vulnerable groups there is also a need for other vaccines. I am thinking mainly of vaccines against pneumonia, a disease that completely unnecessarily kills too many lives and, as we now know, is often a corona-related disease. Today it is up to each region to decide for itself whether this vaccine should be given free of charge. Not everyone gives it without a fee. In some places, the vaccine costs up to $8 (U.S.). Here I think we should go in and say that freedom for the elderly and chronically ill should not be blurred, especially after this spring. This vaccine should be free of charge. In the winter many elderly people queued to receive the vaccine. They tried to keep their distance while hoping that the doses would be enough, but the general demand was so great that not everyone was given the vaccine. It is not unlikely to believe that more vulnerable elderly people were not vaccinated. Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren was coolly opposed to this proposal last Sunday. My question is: does the Prime Minister share her view – that the levy may remain in certain regions?
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-328	Mr President, I would like to I have no other opinion than the responsible Government. Of course we keep following what needs to be done. Let's make sure we're in on the vaccine procurement. We will ensure that the vaccine needed is correctly distributed. What is needed in addition, of course, must be discussed with the health services and the competent authorities. But at present, I have no other opinion than the Council of State.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-329	Mr President, I would like to It is absolutely true that efforts are now being made. All parties want to – we live in exceptional times. 100 billion is borrowed. But just because you have a lot of money to spend doesn't mean it's less important what you spend it on. If this borrowed money is to have long-term positive effects, it must be used right now. One way is to help the regions change how they provide care. There is still a clear gap between KD and S. We want to see more of government responsibility while the Social Democrats are obviously prepared to accept that where you live affects what care you receive and what protection you get from illness in the autumn of the age. Where you live in Sweden and what wallet you have should not be crucial if you can get the care you need and if you can get it on time. We owe this not least to our risk groups and the elderly.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-334	Mr President, I would like to I answered a question about vaccines. First of all, one might wonder whether it is a general policy issue and whether I should answer exactly what vaccine all patients should have. I believe it is important that health care and the responsible authorities have an idea of this. When it comes to healthcare in a broader perspective, it is also our view that we need to have much better government governance. As Prime Minister, I want to say this to citizens around the country: No matter where you live, you should have access to good care. That is why, for example, we have a developed queue billion. That is why we have a national delegation to ensure that the regions do their part to shorten waiting times. That is why we are investing in cancer care, maternal care and maternity care, for example. National efforts are needed so that we can help to get care that is equivalent across the country. I'm afraid the answer to the specific vaccine will be guilty.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-338	Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs a legally secure, humane and sustainable migration policy. Most of it speaks for easily understandable reasons also that it should be tight for quite a long time to come. There must be an end to the temporary laws and political patchwork that has meant that people have been thrown between hope and despair. Our municipalities and regions have also not known what to plan for. In view of history – people remember both open hearts and that we should not build walls as well as the anything but successful secondary legislation – it is important that we get a broad consensus. On the Liberal side, we have said that we are prepared to play an active part in getting a sustainable and long-term good policy in place, because the existing one will expire in a while. Therefore, it was with sadness that we saw that the result was very sprawling when the Migration Policy Committee finished its work. There are a lot of proposals on which there is a fairly broad consensus, but it would be unfortunate if it were left to Parliament. There is a collection of very competent people here, I would like to emphasise, but we do not really have the resources to legislate on this scale on the ground in Parliament – yet, perhaps I should add, Mr President. My question to the Prime Minister is: When does the government intend to send the inquiry for a referral in its entirety?
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-342	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I don't have a specific date for that. The parliamentary committee has been working for a year and, as Johan Pehrson says, a unanimous report was unfortunately not agreed. It's like the lowest common denominator that exists now. So I do not have an exact date, but now this is on the government's table, and the government will do as the government always does: we will prepare, and then, of course, we will have new legislation in place next July. We have to follow that timetable, but unfortunately I do not have a specific date. I share the view that we need to have as broad an agreement as possible. It should be stable and long-term conditions that citizens and the public understand that there is a logic behind it. Of course, people who flee for their lives should have the opportunity to have their case tried. We have to stand up for that. It is an international law, and we shall stand up for it. If you get a yes, you should have good opportunities to stay. If you don't, you'll have to leave the country. I think it is a good thing to start from the intentions we now have. Now the government will prepare this and come back to what date it will be.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-346	Mr President, I would like to Liberals look forward to the entire investigation being sent for a referral so that we get it highlighted and reviewed. Although the Liberals have some comments on the investigation, we think it is incredibly important to move forward. I have, of course, called on the Social Democrats to make further efforts with the Moderates, who, however, are unable to respond in this pulpit. One must be helped to find one another. In this investigation, the Liberals happen to be in the middle of the Social Democrats and the Moderates, so it would be pretty good if we could gather around our proposals, so you can both give and take. Joke aside. This is so important. We can discuss RACs, and we can discuss the exact distribution of supply responsibility. But the important thing is that we get a new policy for Sweden. It requires this very serious area.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-348	Mr President, I would like to I share the view that we must have a new law in place at first, because the old one is not up to date. We are not going back to what it was like in 2015, but we are going to have another piece of legislation in place. A broad agreement in the Parliamentary Committee would have been preferable. However, it was not possible to achieve this, and then the various sub-questions contained in the report were put to the vote. That is what I mean by the fact that we now have the lowest common denominator, and now the process can continue and take its course. The government will prepare it, and then the process will have its course so that we have new legislation in place in July 2021.
i-CdBRaoirGmWzw7apzsoKrN	Mr President, I would like to In August, two men were released from a youth home in Råby, where they were sentenced to closed juvenile care. The incident highlighted the safety deficiencies of the National Board of Institutional Affairs, Sis. It should not be possible to free persons with the relevant criminal record as easily as possible in this case. However, it is not just safety that is lacking. The activities of Sis have also been criticised for shortcomings in the educational work. This is even more serious in the long term. Too many treatment assistants still lack the proper training for their mission. Without the right skills to meet these individuals, juvenile care risks becoming mere storage. This makes it difficult, not least, for the important work against criminality with young offenders.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-352	Mr President, I would like to Increasing security, as well as the quality and capacity of Sis' special youth homes, is a high priority. We can see that, compared to a few years earlier, those who are now placed within the agency have significantly higher violence capital, as they say, and that in itself is a motive for increasing security. It is a work that has been going on for some time and is now led by the new Director General, Elisabet Åbjörnsson Hollmark. We are, of course, in close contact with the Authority, and the necessary reinforcements also mean the need for increased resources. That is why the government was able to announce today that we are adding another 100 million a year to Mr Sis precisely in order to do this. The new reinforcement is part of the work to increase the safety of our youth homes, which includes perimeter and shell protection, alarms and locks.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-356	Mr President, I would like to 13 000 people lost a roof over their heads when the refugee camp in Moria on Lesbos burned down. Many of them are lonely children who are now extremely vulnerable. I was just talking to the organisation Child 10, which warns that these children are at risk of kidnapping human traffickers to be subjected to trafficking for sexual purposes. The situation is urgent. Several EU countries are now assisting by taking care of these people, especially the lonely children. It is good that Sweden contributes with crisis support, but we must do more.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-359	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that this is a very tragic situation which we are now seeing affecting already vulnerable people. Therefore, we have been quick to assist with help. The Swedish Civil Protection Agency specifically assists with tents, blankets, sleeping bags, toilets, kitchen equipment, tarpaulins and more. Greece has accepted that. In addition, Sweden is one of the largest contributors to both UNHCR and IOM. Both of these organisations are in place to assist and ensure that refugees get the best possible situation. There is no Council decision on redeployment within the EU in this case. Then Sweden has no legal basis for voluntary redistribution, because it goes beyond the Dublin Regulation. We therefore have no general possibility of transferring people to Sweden. Should there be a Council decision, the situation is different. It's happened before, but now we don't.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-363	Mr President, I would like to We will show that the number of asylum seekers is reduced – considerably fewer. That is what Prime Minister Stefan Löfven said to DN in January of this year. Six months later, this summer, the Social Democrats supported a migration legislation that would mean just as many asylum seekers to Sweden as today. That is why, of course, Mr President, I wonder what has happened during that six months.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-366	Mr President, I would like to First, let me go back a little bit in time. It is the government that I lead that has changed the legislation so that we have come down from the 2015 figures – far fewer. As has been discussed in the past, it has been a long process in a parliamentary committee. There has been no agreement, and there is not a unanimous report. They have voted on the various proposals. Now we stand up for the report and say that that is what the parliamentary committee has put forward, and then the preparation continues. We shall ensure that there is new legislation in place that is sustainable and logical for the citizens. I think we have every opportunity to do that. Then we shall also stand up for the right to seek asylum. It is an international law, and we should not evade it or diminish it. I hope the Moderates don't want to do that either.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-371	Mr President, I would like to Elderly care is not an easy job for anyone. An absolute minimum requirement must be to be able to understand, speak and write Swedish freely. Unfortunately, care for the elderly has been neglected for a long time, and in recent years it has also been used for integration. Both IVO and Kommunal have warned of the consequences of a lack of language skills. The deterioration in the quality of care for the elderly occurred in connection with the outbreak of the pandemic. Even basic hygiene practices have not been followed, and the consequences of this, as we all know, were disastrous. Our elders are worth a lot better than that. I have the following questions for the Prime Minister. Does the government intend to prioritise a minimum level of language skills in Swedish and ensure safe and secure care for the elderly? When is the demand coming?
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-374	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that I share the view on the importance of care for the elderly. My mother worked in the care of the elderly herself, and I know what it meant to the elderly in the villages around where we lived. Of course, what we have experienced under covid is not acceptable. When it is not even possible to maintain the most basic hygiene practices, there is a serious deficiency. That is why the National Board of Health and Welfare made sure to train quickly so that all municipalities in turn can train in basic hygiene practices. It is clear that those who work in elderly care should be able to speak Swedish. That is why I think the extra services were a good way for people from other countries to come in, do a good job in care for the elderly, in the meantime learn the language, educate themselves and then come back to do even better work in care for the elderly. Swedish is a natural part of being able to talk to the elderly.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-378	Mr President, I would like to In many municipalities and regions large cuts are now planned around the country. There are cuts in health care, school and care. For many students this will mean that they will not get help and support to get through their education. This will mean longer care queues and even longer surgical queues. For many social services, this means even greater cuts in suburban areas. Gothenburg is an example. In Vättleskolan in Angered, the workforce will be cut by a third. In Botkyrka, 50 million will be cut in schools. I would like to ask Stefan Löfven why he wants to spend 10 billion more on tax cuts than on our common welfare. Why is it a better priority to reduce taxes than to strengthen our health care, education and care?
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-381	Mr President, I would like to No, I don't want that. Compare the expenditure for the addition to welfare 2018 with this year and next year! Then we're talking about about about 40 billion more in the various supplements. It is general, as well as elderly care and health care, and so on. I do not think they have seen the husband of additions to Swedish welfare. The government and the co-operative parties have ensured that in the course of the year, in contrast to the crisis of 2008-2009, much more money was spent than the forecasted tax losses, when less money was made available than the tax loss. We cover for the tax loss, and we add general money and targeted money. Since the last term of office there have been 100 000 more employees in Swedish welfare. The investment that is being made now will of course make it possible to employ further. We're gonna need more.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-384	Mr President, I would like to The old property tax was unpredictable and high. Since 2001, the Christian Democrats have been calling for its abolition, as happened under the alliance government. The new property charge system is both more predictable and leads to lower taxes for Swedish households. If the old property tax had been retained, it would have been higher than the tax is today in all Swedish municipalities. Since the announcement of the tax reform by the January parties, more and more proposals for re-imposed property tax have emerged. Should these proposals become a reality, the tax on an average small house would be increased by SEK 30 000 a year. We Christian Democrats understand that ordinary people are concerned that these tax increases are once again being discussed, and we will oppose any proposal for a reinstated property tax. Can the Prime Minister here and now promise that the property tax will not be reintroduced?
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-388	Mr President, I would like to A clear disadvantage of the new levy was the distribution profile. A lot of people actually made a big buck. We are discussing a new tax system according to the principles of the January Agreement. Then I won't stand here and talk about one or the other treasure. We want to do the study needed to see what a new tax system can look like and how it should be balanced. It should assume that there are resources for welfare. We have talked a lot about welfare today, and resources are still needed. We also believe that it is important for the tax system to contribute to more equality and the efficient use of taxpayers' money. Let's get back to the question. I'm not going to discuss individual taxes.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-391	Mr President, I would like to I'm not testifying again – even if it's for murder, said 17-year-old Nimo when we met here in Parliament last week. Nimo witnessed against youths who committed crimes in his home area, and then turned his life into hell. Then, at the request of the police, he moved away. Nimo's mother told me that the mothers of the perpetrators didn't speak Swedish. Failed integration where parents can't talk to either police, social services, teachers or neighbors has caused many suburban children to fall into crime. We have a prime minister who has been rambling about the link between integration failures and crime for years. Researcher Peter Esaiasson estimates that 25 percent of the inhabitants of vulnerable areas cannot even talk in Swedish. It is no longer enough with the language test and the social test that we Liberals have passed in the January agreement. Targeted language interventions in vulnerable areas are now needed for more people to learn Swedish.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-396	Mr President, I would like to First of all, it is the schools. That's why it's good that we invest so much in schools so that young people can get through elementary school, get into high school and get out with a high school education. Then it is good to see that the grades are raised, i.e. that more are eligible. But we still have a long way to go because there are far too many people who are not qualified. School's number one. The second is the labour market. There must be more rapid contact between the individual and the labour market. You can learn a lot at work, and that is a good way to learn Swedish. We agree on this initiative, but there is much more to be done. School and investment in the labour market are two good examples where we also have good support from the social partners; they want to help. It is incredibly important to learn Swedish in order to be able to function well in Swedish society. That's two bets.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-401	Mr President, I would like to We who live in rural areas need a well-functioning infrastructure, both for education and jobs and for us to feel that we are part of Sweden. Today, we depend on the car as a means of transport for lack of adequate public transport. It does not benefit the private economy or the environment. An important part of our regional infrastructure is the railway, for example Stångådalsbanan in my county. Good rail is in many places the only reasonable alternative to the car.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-405	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes you talk about the whole of Sweden to live. I am among those who think that the whole of Sweden should be given the opportunity to contribute. We have such a fantastic capacity throughout our country, and infrastructure is an important part of this. We have an overall transport policy objective of precisely functioning infrastructure throughout the country. I think it's very important. We are now implementing the national traffic cross-border plan 2018 – 2029 with investments of over SEK 700 billion. That's a huge amount of money. There are new main courses, yes, but there is also the realization that we have to invest in other parts than that covered by the main courses. It is a new building, and it is a renovation of both roads and railways. In this new plan the whole-country perspective will be included. I grew up in the countryside of Norrland myself. I know what that means.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-409	Mr President, I would like to Swedish forest accounts for approximately 140 billion of bnp. One can generalize a little and say that for every percentage of forest we take out of production, 1 1⁄2 billion goes away from Swedish welfare. Swedish forest owners take care of the forest in a fantastic way that protects both production and biodiversity, but many times they still have to go to court to defend the right to use their own forest. This summer there was a report that showed that when we report protected nature we in Sweden are doing a little understatement compared to many other countries in Europe and in this way we are doing ourselves a disservice. Therefore, Mr President, I simply wonder whether it is reasonable for us in Sweden to report protected nature in a different way, whether it is reasonable for us to take more Swedish forest out of production and whether it is reasonable that Swedish forest owners need to go to court to use their own forest.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-413	Mr President, I would like to I do not know in that detail exactly what difference we have in the way we account for the other countries. But I have a clear idea that the forest is an incredible advantage for Sweden. I took a helicopter the other day and saw how much forest we have. The forest also grows more than we take out, so every year we have larger and larger forests. We don't take out enough forest. I am convinced that forests will also be an important element in the transition to a green economy, to a circular economy. Of course, forest owners are incredibly important in this. Large parts of the forest are privately owned, and it is clear that then one must have such conditions that one can farm the forest. I do not know exactly what court cases the honourable Member refers to, but in the January agreement we have written about strengthening the position of forest owners.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-418	Mr President, I would like to Last Tuesday, the Migration Committee presented its report to the government. It is a watered-down story that will increase the volumes of asylum seekers rather than reduce them. In connection with this, the Minister for Migration announced that he is satisfied with today's levels, so let's talk a little bit about figures. Over the last two years, the number of asylum seekers has reached over 20 000 per year. Over the past five years, Sweden has issued 650 000 residence permits, of which 40% to asylum-related immigration. It is in the order of a new Malmö. We in the Swedish Democrats are clear: a net minus in asylum migration is a must. It's crystal clear. My question is how many asylum seekers the Prime Minister believes that Sweden can receive per year while we pay off the integration debt and reduce crime.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-422	Mr President, I would like to We are currently working on legislation. After the work of the parliamentary committee, we have now received a report from the government. It will be processed and prepared in normal order so that we will have new legislation in place next year. Legislation will be based on the possibility of seeking asylum. It is an international law that even the Swedish Democrats do not come from. It is there, and I believe it is important that people who flee for their lives should have the opportunity to have their asylum application tested. It will also be based on a number of other elements once this process is over. We shall have a long-term sustainable migration policy that stands up for international law but also ensures that we receive as many as we can integrate. That's the most important thing. People are going to work, and children are going to school. Then you can contribute to society.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-426	Mr President, I would like to Municipal self-government is a stable and secure foundation in our Swedish community building. During the current pandemic, some advocates of nationalisation of local and regional activities have taken the opportunity to highlight their views. The focus has been on care for the elderly, but attention has also been paid to health care and school. Of course, challenges are not lacking. But we see that the parliamentaryly appointed Municipal Investigation, which recently went into depth on these issues, points to cooperation as the way forward. The question of mergers is also sometimes highlighted. The municipalities and regions of Sweden today produced a report that emphasizes the role of municipal self-government in the construction of society. In this case, local popular support is the focus.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-431	Mr President, I would like to I believe that welfare is best delivered by those who are close. I think it is an important principle that we have. Then we need to give the public sector, our common sector, the right conditions to do so with both resources and other things. I also want to tell all citizens that you have good welfare and good service wherever you live. There I think we need better governance and better cooperation, also between the different levels in public Sweden. We will ensure that there are resources and that there are trained people, but we will also ensure that we have an equally good level across the country. This is, among other things, what we are working on now, for example in health care but also in school and in other areas. We're not going to have a big reorganization here. That is not what is needed; it is better governance and resources that are needed.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-434	Mr President, I would like to Rarely has a group been so disappointed and so betrayed by a government as the people in what we call risk groups during the pandemic. The government has delayed and delayed. A long time ago, decisions were made on financial compensation for these groups, but when the assessments are now made by Försäkringskassan, severely ill people are rejected. I would like to give the Prime Minister an example. I would like to emphasise that the question is approved by Paula Björnstad herself. She wants me to put it to the Prime Minister, because her own possibilities are small. Paula normally works half-time as a preschool teacher, but she has a severe heart disease that keeps her isolated since the pandemic broke out. She is particularly sensitive to viruses, and her doctor has written a strong certificate that infection could mean that she does not survive. Paula's sitting right now watching this. What does the Prime Minister advise her to do? And does the Prime Minister intend to take the initiative, or to ensure that the minister responsible takes the initiative, to review this acquis?
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-438	Mr President, I would like to Many people have special problems during a pandemic, for example because they have a disease picture. The government, together with the committees in the Riksdag, has worked as quickly as ever to establish rules on compensation. It turns out that this corresponds to the creation of a new social security system, quite simply. Unfortunately, it takes that time, so I understand the impatience. If the regulatory framework does not work, we must, of course, review it again. It is supposed to act as a protection for people; that is why we have developed it. Of course, I cannot answer what it looks like in the individual case, but we must follow this closely. We are doing protection for it to work, and then we must also be prepared to reconsider if it does not. Again – exactly what it is like in this case, I cannot comment on, but we are supposed to have protection that people feel safe with.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-442	Mr President, I would like to We have an extremely serious social problem in Sweden, namely growing gaps. The fact that social insecurity has increased at the same rate as the gaps is not a coincidence; it is linked. Today we should talk more about the basic problem and what we do about it and less about populist quick fixes. The government has strengthened the police with historical resources and tightened the penalties. That's good, and it's necessary. But for us Social Democrats, the most important thing we can do is to strengthen security, the long-term work to reduce the gaps. That work begins in the classroom, even in preschool, with efforts at equivalence and equality, that is, every single child's chance to reach their full potential.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-445	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I fully share the analysis. Equality is good for everyone and for society as a whole. That is why, of course, we shall strive for this. School is extremely important. When you talk to teachers, not least preschool teachers, they are very clear that you can early see if a boy or a girl can get into trouble. That is why we already last parliamentary term made sure to bring more resources to school. More people will want to be teachers, and then it's about the conditions. That is why salaries and other conditions should be improved for teachers, and this is begun. More people should be able to become teachers, and that is why we increase the number of places in teacher education so that you become more out in school. There's a lot more people in school now. We must also have equivalence, and that is why we have introduced the equivalence premium. It now amounts, if I remember correctly, to SEK 6 billion a year. Schools that need more resources should have more resources. The school is A and O – it's the foundation, and there we are going to bet.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-450	Mr President, I would like to We Moderates in our future budget have set aside money for a new census throughout the country to counter cheating and crime. It is unacceptable for people to be subjected to crime because police resources are lacking, while Sweden pays subsidies to people who do not even live in the country. We see that this can even be about representatives of other countries. Weaknesses in censuses make everyday life more difficult for honest people, while criminals can hide their identities and commit crimes against our welfare systems. In fact, a census has not really been made since 1990. We Moderates believe it is high time and well-invested money to make a new census. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister also think that a new census is really needed? There was something unclear in the party leader debate.
i-ae1e0ce28ae2386c-453	Mr President, I would like to It's really good that the Moderates have turned. The Moderates used to be against census. Moderates formerly urged people to tear down the census forms because they did not want one. But it is good that we all now realize the need to keep track of who lives in the country and where they live. I do not believe – I also said this to Ulf Kristersson in this House – that such a study should be carried out exactly as perhaps 30 years ago, but I think it can be done otherwise. I also believe that we should talk to the responsible authorities about what can be done here and now to improve and secure the data. So, yes, we'll have order and find out who lives in the country and where. Exactly how we should do this, I think we should think a little bit about it so that we do the best we can.
