i-d180ea4ff08d8d9c-8	Madam President, I would like Dennis Dioukarev has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that Sweden complies with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Dennis Dioukarev has also asked me whether I intend to take steps to change the law so that newly arrived students will not be given priority to places of education at the expense of Swedish students. Dennis Dioukarev describes the selection criteria of the municipality of Gothenburg when placing pupils at the municipality's school units. As a minister, I cannot speak on a case-by-case basis. Principals in the school system must comply with the rules laid down in the school constitutions. According to the School Act (2010:800), a student must be placed primarily at the school units of the municipality where the pupil's guardian wants the student to go. However, if the desired location would lead to the prejudice of another student's legitimate requirement of placement at a school near the home, the municipality should place the pupil at another school. Detailed rules on the selection of pupils who have to be placed in a different school unit from the desired one are not provided for in the Education Act. This means that municipalities have a relatively large space to decide for themselves which principles to apply. However, the essential requirement is that the selection is carried out in an objective, objective and non-discriminatory manner. Since 1 January 2020, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, applies as a law in Sweden. It follows from the Convention on the Rights of the Child that all children are of equal value, that no one should be discriminated against and that all measures and decisions concerning children should take primary account of what is considered to be the best interests of the child. These are fundamental commitments to the rights of the child and therefore important principles. Therefore, my focus is on breaking inequality in Swedish schools because all children, regardless of their background, have the right to an equivalent education. However, we see that the differences between pupils' learning outcomes have increased and that these increasing differences between schools can be attributed to increased school segregation to a very large extent. Pupils have become increasingly divided between schools based on socio-economic and migration backgrounds. We know that a large part of school segregation in comprehensive school is due to housing segregation, but we also know that the choice of school is a contributing factor to the increasing school segregation. Of course, the government sees this as very problematic. The design of school elections therefore needs to be changed so that it can help reduce school segregation. This has been noted by both the School Commission and the OECD. On 27 April 2020, the Council received the report entitled 'A more equal school – reducing school segregation and improving resource allocation' (SOU 2020:28). In its report, the study on a more equal school makes proposals which include changes to the rules on placement in municipal school units. The aim is to promote to a greater extent a comprehensive social composition of pupils in school. I look forward to referring the report and seeing what the consultation bodies say. Finally, I would like to emphasise once again that school segregation must be reduced in order to increase equality in school. The school should be a meeting place for students with different backgrounds. We should not have schools where students of different backgrounds never meet or some schools where academic children go and other schools where workers' children go. I hope that more parties in Parliament will support this and will be prepared to act from outside.
i-d180ea4ff08d8d9c-14	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Education! Thank you for your answer. I would like to begin by putting the Minister's answer in context. A school selection normally takes place so that in the event that the number of applicants exceeds the number of places offered, the students are given priority from the point of view of whether they have siblings at the school, the distance between school and home, and ultimately they draw lots. Normally, all pupils are treated on the basis of the same criteria of promoting equal rights and opportunities for all pupils. But in Gothenburg another road has been chosen. The primary school board and the administration have changed the order of priorities to give priority and direct allocation to the city's most popular schools if you belong to the category of new arrivals. This, of course, has consequences for all those who are not new arrivals. The newspaper headlines in Gothenburg are filled with testimony from broken parents and from students separated from their classmates, being pulled out of their stability and sent to the other side of town, just because they are Swedes. In this context, the Board of Appeal of the school system took a decision on an appeal against a school placement and concluded that a newly arrived student is not a factual selection basis. They also refer to a decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, which states that the selection of the school should be made in an objective, objective and non-discriminatory manner. Here it should be petted and clear, one might think, but still the same order of priority in Gothenburg. So that is the background to my questions to the Minister for Education here today. I am reacting to a number of things in the Minister's response. The first is that the Minister quotes that the selection should take place in an objective, objective and non-discriminatory manner. The problem with that is that the school system has already established that new arrivals are not an objective selection basis. The criteria are not met, so how can it be argued that this is done properly when we have loopholes that are demonstrably enabling discrimination? The second is that when the Minister says that we have to break segregation, she really means that one should force nine-year-olds to take responsibility and the consequences of Social Democratic immigration policy, which has laid the foundation for discriminatory priority schemes such as the one in Gothenburg where Swedish students are forced to give their place to new arrivals. I had hoped that the minister could reassure concerned parents and students here today. Unfortunately, however, it seems that all students in Gothenburg should prepare for their places to be given away to new arrivals. I therefore rephrase my questions: These are my questions to which I would like answers.
i-d180ea4ff08d8d9c-24	Madam President, I would like Dennis Dioukarev seems to assume that in my interpellation response I have supported the model applied in the municipality of Gothenburg. However, anyone who reads before in my reply sees that I clearly point out what most Swedes know and every Member of Parliament should know, namely that when an administrative task, such as the design of school elections and decisions on school elections, has been entrusted to a municipality, as a minister, I am prevented from going in and having views on how the law is applied. On the other hand, I am responsible for legislation and for ensuring that there is legislation that can ensure that we in Sweden live up to all aspects of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and other international agreements. I am also responsible for ensuring that we get a school that is a cohesive school – a school where children and students meet and where children and students get the same chance to learn a lot, regardless of which residential area you were born in and which parents you have or what background you have. This is my responsibility. I am also responsible for the fact that there is a school inspection and that the school inspectorate can supervise the municipalities. I also make sure that there are Boards of Appeal and the like that can take a position on municipal decisions. But I'm not actually allowed to go in and review the municipal decisions made under the school law. I am convinced that the honourable Member would be the first to report me to the appropriate body in Parliament if I were to do so. I have not supported the Gothenburg school election model, and I am not allowed to comment on the decisions taken in connection with the school law. On the other hand, I am convinced that it is in the interests of all children to have a good schooling. I am also convinced that it is in the interests of all children to grow up in a society that stays together, a society where the engineer's daughter and the cleaner's son go to the same school, meet and meet each other, do not have the same background but still can share the same experience, do not have the same educational background at home at the kitchen table but can share the same knowledge, the same education and the same education that our school will provide. Madam President, I would like I am convinced that we will have a better society if children and students grow up with different backgrounds but still go to the same school and get to know each other as the unique individuals they are. I suppose this is why Agenda 2030, our own school law and various governance documents that apply both in Sweden and internationally clearly state that all children have equal rights to education. That is why, in my work as responsible for legislation, I will work hard to ensure that all children receive equal education. This is my responsibility, and I will see to it. The first step I will take is, of course, to refer the proposals that Björn Åstrand has made in his investigation. This will be done shortly, and it will be interesting to see what the consultation bodies say about the proposals, which are therefore not in line with the proposals which Dennis Dioukarev clearly criticises in the speaker's chair.
i-d180ea4ff08d8d9c-29	Madam President, I would like No one has asked for a review of the specific case, but this is a debate on principles, at least in my view. It is quite correct that the Minister describes that you as a Member of Parliament and Minister are responsible for the legislation in Sweden and that the tasks are allocated to the School Inspectorate, Administrations and others. As the Minister says in his reply, selection is not regulated by the School Act, and the municipalities have room to decide which principle should be applied. This is quite correct, but when we have several high-profile cases of institutionalised discrimination, it has gone from being a municipal matter to becoming a national issue. Then, as a minister, we must examine the possibility of remedying the problem, in so far as discrimination is seen as a problem. In such cases, loopholes for discrimination should be closed in some way. The requirement of objectivity, objectivity and non-discrimination and general principles of law are not complied with. This has already been established by the Board of Appeal. Letting newcomers take the lead in gender is contrary to the principle of equality and the requirements of a factual basis for selection. If you are genuinely motivated to combat injustice in society, then clarify the School Act, the Municipal Act and the Discrimination Act! Act somehow! That is why we are politicians, because we want to change. At least that's why I came into politics because I wanted to fight injustice. If you still doubt that there is a problem, you can ask the parents who see their children despair if they feel that they are not covered by fundamental democratic rights. You can ask the children who get picked up out of their everyday lives and say goodbye to their friends, get on the tram and be sent to another neighborhood just because they are Swedes. Ask them if they feel justly treated! There is a discrepancy between laws and case law on the one hand and the reality in Gothenburg on the other. There are demonstrably indisputable, documented testimony to this. Then the government must act. Everything else is an acceptance of institutionalized discrimination against Swedish students. I'm looking for evidence here today because it's not like that, but I can't find any. I therefore put the question straight to the Minister: does the Minister and the Government at least distance themselves from the discrimination against Swedish students? That was my first question. As far as Åstrand's equivalence investigation is concerned, we can put it aside for a while and instead talk about principles, for such a government must also have, notwithstanding investigations and consultation rounds. My second, similar question that I would like to ask is: Is it acceptable for Swedish students to be treated differently because of their background? I still haven't got a straight answer to that question. The government must have an initial value in this context. One cannot, as a minister, be an unwritten sheet on such fundamental issues. There are two very simple questions: Is it acceptable for Swedish students to be treated differently because of their background? Does the Minister and the Government disapprove of discrimination against Swedish students?
i-d180ea4ff08d8d9c-37	Madam President, I would like Dennis Dioukarev here illustrates the disadvantage of having lines written in advance. My entire post was about my basic view of how important it is that the Swedish school conveys knowledge and education but also knowledge of what our society includes and that it provides an opportunity for children and students to grow up together with others. During my own schooling, I started in primary school where most parents did not have the wealth of resources that many parents have in Sweden. Between the third and fourth grade I moved to a school that belonged to one of the richest areas in Stockholm, and what I experienced was that with my background I could as much as my new classmates. I really wish that the Swedish school gave equal knowledge to all children, but I note with regret that it plays a bigger and bigger role which school you go to for what knowledge you achieve. That is not acceptable. Then Dennis Dioukarev makes a big point of having newly arrived students knock out Swedish students and take their places in schools in Gothenburg. I would like Dennis Dioukarev, with his local knowledge, to tell me how many newly arrived students have been given priority in Gothenburg schools at the expense of Swedish students, to use the expression that Dennis Dioukarev himself uses. That would be a good piece of information in this debate. In addition to the ideological starting point, I note that I, and many governments before me, have ensured that there is legislation in place that allows parents to appeal. There is an opportunity to go to the School Inspectorate and have different forms of measures and decisions reviewed. But again, as a minister, I cannot comment on this, but I am responsible for ensuring that legislation is in place. Madam President, I would like When we have a situation where there are more students applying to a school than there are places, different types of selection rules are always needed. I am responsible for ensuring that these rules are in place, but then the municipalities, with today's system, are responsible for their proper and sensible application. For everyone who works in the Swedish parliament, it is a matter of course that discrimination should not occur. It should not occur because of ethnic origin, in any direction, but I believe that Dennis Dioukarev is guilty of the answer. Dennis Dioukarev claims in the speaker's chair that there is discrimination going on. Give me the numbers! How many Swedish-born students have not been able to attend their school because, as Dennis Dioukarev says, foreign-born or newly arrived students have taken these places?
i-d180ea4ff08d8d9c-43	Madam President, I would like The Minister makes a remarkable point of the fact that only a small number of students are discriminated against. Anna Ekström, Sweden's Minister for Education, is trying to quantify injustice. I think it's tacky. It is remarkable but refreshing with a minister who so undeniably manifests his view of democracy and his view of the basic foundations of equality before the law that Sweden is built upon. Is not a case of discrimination a case too much? According to the Education Act and the Discrimination Act, at least it is, and according to the Swedish Democrats it is. Does the government not think that a case of discrimination is a case too much? As far as numbers are concerned, we can talk about them. In 2019 a total of 46 newcomers were given priority to the city's most popular schools. Because of this, 46 students were sent to schools far from home. How many were there the year before? How many will be culled in the future? How many have been culled on discriminatory grounds? In fact, the number does not matter, but it is the principle that needs to be addressed. Where is the government bound for how many new arrivals should be given priority? For the Swedish Democrats, the answer is obvious: the principle of equality should apply to everyone. A student who is not covered by our democratic principles is one student too many. Where is the government borderline?
i-d180ea4ff08d8d9c-47	Madam President, I would like I have the bleak duty to inform Dennis Dioukarev that today's selection rules for the Swedish school make it very difficult to enter popular independent schools for those who are not born in the municipality, and secondly, parents who have been proactive enough to report the student for a place in these popular schools and thirdly are not born the right month of the year. The student born in December is today knocked out by a student born in January in the elections to the popular independent schools. The student who moves from Borås to Gothenburg is knocked out by a student who was born in Gothenburg. The student whose parents do not know which independent schools provide the right contact network and who has experienced and knowledgeable teachers in five, six or seven years is knocked out by a student whose parents have this knowledge. What do Dennis Dioukarev and the Swedish Democrats say about this obvious injustice? I rarely hear the Swedish Democrats talk about this injustice. Within the Swedish school, we will have a selection system for schools that are fair, transparent and contribute to children and students having the opportunity to choose a school – this is what Björn Åstrand proposes in his investigation – but which also means that children and pupils are assessed equally and not from when they have happened to be registered to a queue by their parents. I think that Swedish school would benefit from a debate that focuses on knowledge and education, but also focuses on an equal and equal school where children and students have the chance to meet, get to know each other and grow up together. Sweden benefits from that. Then it will be better for all of us, when we take joint responsibility for our society.
