i-f71c32c28de68181-1	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me what new environmental and climate requirements might be necessary for the aviation industry to be able to receive new financial support, how I and the government will follow up on the aviation industry living up to the climate expectations I have expressed regarding the financial support promised so far and when I consider that proposals for targets for the climate impact of aviation can be presented to Parliament to achieve adequate governance of this important source of emissions. Let me be crystal clear – the major climate impact of aviation should be reduced, and aviation should bear more of the costs of its climate impact. The aviation industry is one of the sectors hard hit by the impact of the new Corona virus on the economy. The government has therefore provided the airlines with credit guarantees aimed at safeguarding fundamentally viable Swedish air carriers from being knocked out. The companies need to work to future-proof their operations. This is particularly true in the field of climate change. Madam President, I would like When we invest in a recovery after the Corona crisis, climate is an important starting point. We cannot afford or time to make large rescue packages that lock us into fossil dependence. In crisis management, the government has focused on limiting the spread of infection in the country, ensuring resources for health care, limiting the impact on socially important activities and mitigating consequences for citizens and businesses. We continue to review further opportunities to support companies in both creating jobs and continuing the path towards fossil freedom. The focus of the government is extensive investment in green conversion, welfare and jobs. Close cooperation with the aviation industry is important to ensure a green recovery. The government initiative Fossil-free Sweden was recently tasked, among other things, to push industry to fossil freedom in connection with the recovery after the economic crisis caused by the pandemic. It is also important to implement the measures to reduce the climate impact of aviation contained in the Climate Action Plan (prop. 2019/ 20:65). The government will, among other things, introduce mandatory inclusion of renewable fuel in aviation fuel. We are going to review the possibilities of diffing entry of landing and take-off charges based on their climate impact, and we are going to introduce a mandatory climate declaration for long-distance journeys. Sweden will also continue to show leadership within the EU and the International Aviation Organisation (ICAO) in order to raise the level of ambition for emission reductions. As Jens Holm mentions, the government also considers it important to complement our existing climate targets so that important emission sources do not stand without adequate governance. The environmental target committee will therefore be tasked with developing targets for the climate impact of aviation. This will provide greater clarity and a long-term perspective in climate action, which is important, among other things, for the necessary investment decisions to be made. An additional directive to the Environmental Objectives Committee will be adopted shortly. Madam President, I would like The climate impact of aviation needs to be greatly reduced in line with the Paris Agreement's temperature targets. The government is therefore continuing to push for effective and ambitious targets and instruments at national, European and global levels.
i-f71c32c28de68181-9	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Climate Action for the answer to my interpellation. Before Corona arrived, the aviation sector was the sector where emissions increased fastest in the world and perhaps also in Sweden. Had the aviation sector been a single country globally, its emissions would have been put in place seven of the world's major emitters. Here in Sweden we fly extremely much more than we did just 20-30 years ago. Foreign aviation has increased by 130 percent, and our emissions have increased by about 60 - 70 percent since 1990. Something really needs to be done. Now came the Corona crisis, this pandemic. We were ill prepared. The plane as a sector almost died overnight. I may have some understanding that something had to be done. We received a bill for the Riksdag from the government. We had one day to react to that bill. That's not much time. The bill included support for the aviation sector of SEK 5 billion. In the bill, there was no requirement whatsoever for the aviation sector to commit itself to reducing its emissions or to doing any kind of compensation in order to have access to that money. It's very unfortunate. We can look at how France has dealt with a similar situation. They have issued a large package of aid to Air France requiring emission reductions. They also say that where there are working train lines where you can quickly travel by train from one point to another, Air France should not operate aircraft. These are examples of counterclaims that have been made. It's perfectly reasonable to do. A crisis is also an opportunity. We should not, as the Minister for Climate Change has done, repeat old mistakes and continue to give money to what destroys and pollutes. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Climate Change if the government sees that future aid packages will come for the aviation industry. I guess that's gonna happen. How well prepared is the Minister for Climate Change to demand compensation for the reduction in emissions at the time? I am thinking that, in addition to achieving emission reduction targets for aircraft, it may also be one such thing as bringing forward the decommissioning of Bromma airport here in Stockholm. Today, there are no flights to and from Bromma. But Bromma will remain until 2038 unless we and the City of Stockholm act. The climate minister also says that she expects the aviation industry itself to reduce its emissions and assume environmental responsibility. But how is this expectation followed up? In what way does the climate minister ensure that this is really the case?
i-Kn9u7dK3WJJEFjScW39XYF	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the interpellation and for the questions here in the debate! It is true, as Jens Holm says, that the aviation sector is perhaps the sector where emissions have increased fastest in the world. However, if you look at Sweden in recent years before covid-19 you can see that flying actually decreased here. I'm glad to hear that. In the light of the increase since 1990, this shows that citizens want to travel more climate-smartly, and that the aviation tax introduced by the government and the debate on the climate impact of aviation have had an effect. It is important to say that, even before the Corona crisis, a series of measures, not least the clear debate we have had on the climate impact of aviation, have produced a result that shows a clear decline both domestic and foreign. As Jens Holm says, it was extremely fast and dramatic for flights to completely lose their customer base – more or less from one day to another. There we agree with the Left Party that aviation is a social service. We will also need to fly in the future for certain types of transport where it cannot be replaced by trains or other transport. This is particularly true when it comes to being able to transport healthcare professionals or patients to different parts of the country. We had to move forward very quickly so that the companies operating in Sweden would not go bankrupt, simply. Jens Holm describes these 5 billion as direct support. I would like to emphasise that this is not aid, but loan guarantees. It is support for companies to borrow, and then they will pay back. It is true that there are no specific requirements in the bill. On the other hand, the Government clearly states that the companies need to work to secure their operations in the future. This is particularly true in the climate area, and we are clear that there are expectations of this. As far as France is concerned, it should be remembered that they have issued loan guarantees of 70 billion compared to our 5 billion. If you look a little closer at the French requirements – and it is good to formulate them – you can see that there are no binding requirements. They are actually based on what was already at issue in the past: to halve CO2 emissions from domestic flights. This basically means that you should not fly on the lines where there are high-speed trains, for example between Bordeaux and Paris, Lyon and Paris, Nantes, Lyon and Marseille. This represents less than 1% of France's total aviation emissions, so it will not be a huge revolutionary reduction in emissions if this is implemented. But I very much hope that it will be implemented! France also says that its support should aim to use 2% of renewable fuels in aviation by 2025. We have an investigation in Sweden that Maria Wetterstrand has led where the proposal is 5 percent renewable to 2025. How are we to follow up on aviation's climate commitments so that they are truly in line with the Paris Agreement? That is why we will give the Environmental Objectives Committee a mandate to set a specific sector target for aviation so that we can follow it up. We will continue to present, for example, climate-governing take-off and landing charges, climate declaration and the incorporation of renewable fuels.
i-f71c32c28de68181-26	Madam President, I would like I can agree with the Minister for Climate Change that French requirements are not the sharpest in the world. But it's still some kind of demand, and it says that you've thought a little longer than just chopping away money, if I may say so. It expresses the desire to use this support in some way, and I think that is right. What the government says in its proposal on the environment and requirements is the impact assessment on p. 7, which says: Yes, this can have an impact on the environment. It must be interpreted as meaning that it can have a negative impact on the environment if the government goes in with money to the aviation industry. I would like to ask a question: will the government announce new aid packages for aviation? It would be good to know if the Minister has it under control and if the government will then make some kind of counterclaim. I really hope so, because now we have plenty of time compared to mid-March, when there was domestic panic in many areas. I am thinking of several of the issues raised by the Minister, such as the environmental objective preparation. That's interesting. What kind of deadline is it going to get? Will there be a long-term investigation, or will we have a time-limited reduction requirement for the aviation industry during this term of office? For example, I think that would be good to know. Another concrete issue concerning aviation emissions and Corona is the issue we dealt with last week at European level. There is a compensation system called Corsia for international aviation. I don't think it's a good system at all. It is about the aviation industry having to compensate for the growing emissions. There was a discussion at EU level about revising the baseline and how much climate compensation would have to be done. Unfortunately, the decision was that one should only relate to the 2019 emissions and not include 2019 – 2020, as the previous decision meant. Sweden voted in favour of only 2019. It was a great disappointment for us in the Left Party, because we do not know how aviation will be affected in the future. What we know from this decision is that, for the next few years, the aviation industry will in principle not have to pay a single crown for its growing emissions because the level of emissions in 2019 was so high. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: why did you do that? Is this not a concrete example where you should have said no to your foot? Shouldn't you have said you're not going to change the baseline emissions? Madam President, I would like I would also like to know what the Minister thinks about Fossil-free Sweden, which is mentioned as an interesting initiative. I believe that 21 emission reduction action plans have been put forward. It is the business community that is driving this, and the aviation industry has also presented such an action plan. But Fossil-free Sweden is something that the industry itself runs. I see that it seems that the government has put forward the proposal, but is there, for example, any money from the government so that you can kickstart and get the action plans started? Otherwise it is mostly a good intention from the government but very little workshop.
i-f71c32c28de68181-35	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the questions! Jens Holm asks if there will be more support packages to, among other things, the aviation industry. I cannot, of course, rule out anything, given that we have a global pandemic and an exceptional situation in Sweden and the world. But I have nothing to say about this at the moment. Will we be able to make demands in connection with a possible additional aid package? There is the answer that we will of course be able to do so. Looking at the Paris Agreement, Sweden, like everyone else who has signed and ratified the agreement, has said that all the financial flows should go towards achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement and that we should move away from fossil fuels. We need to use the leverage provided by the financial support packages in connection with the Corona crisis to cope with the climate crisis. It is also the government's entry into the EU's recovery package, but we will be talking about that in a moment. I cannot announce the deadline for the Environmental Objectives Committee and the sectoral targets for aviation yet. This is something that is being prepared right now. Of course, it is important to arrive as quickly as possible. I would also like to point out once again that we have a whole range of policy instruments with regard to aviation that we intend to take forward and which are contained in the climate action plan. It is the take-off and landing charges that should be environmentally responsible. It is about the incorporation of renewable fuels into aviation fuel, so-called biojets. According to Maria Wetterstrand's study, it has the potential to reduce emissions in Swedish aviation by 24 per cent. At that time the investigation had anticipated an increase corresponding to Swedavia's average forecast until 2030, but also with that increase we would see a reduction in aviation emissions. Now there will be another new situation, so I see with quite great confidence in it. However, it must be sustainable biofuels, I would like to emphasise. We need to be able to provide incentives for this and for it to be produced in Sweden. As far as Corsia is concerned, we voted yes, but we were the only EU country to maintain the base years in 2019 and 2020. We did so because we felt that what has been achieved so far in Corsia was too weak. We need something sharper. I can say, however, that it was a completely overwhelming majority who thought that 2020 was not representative and was not what was meant when we agreed on these base years. However, I would like to emphasise that there are reviews in the Corsia system. The first review will start in 2022, and Sweden will continue to push for greater ambition. As far as Fossil-free Sweden is concerned, I would not like to endorse the fact that it is the business community that is driving it. This is the government's initiative. It was I who appointed Svante Axelsson as coordinator for Fossil-free Sweden, precisely to get the business community to start doing its work on taking their roadmaps towards fossil freedom to 2045. I think that has been done in a fantastically good way. Will we go in with money and support to implement the plans? I would hold that too much likely in connection with the Corona recovery. Then we already have the roadmaps in place and do not have to start from scratch.
i-f71c32c28de68181-44	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by stating that the Minister for Climate Change and I agree that aviation emissions must be reduced. The reduction we have now received under the Corona is not the kind of conversion we want, but we want a structured, organised transition. As the Minister for Climate Change said, we will still have to fly in the future, but there are many areas where we do not have to fly and where trains and high-speed trains should be an obvious alternative. Overall, it is not sustainable that international aviation has increased as much in Sweden as it has. We need to ask ourselves: Do you have to travel all the way to Thailand etcetera to get a nice vacation? I don't think so. With regard to the Fossil-Free Sweden initiative, I would in no way like to detract from the commitment of Svante Axelsson, nor the Minister for Climate Change, to this. It has passed what an idea sprayer and catalyst Svante Axelsson is. It's a fine initiative. But what I lack a little is a leadership from the government, to be honest – to coordinate these roadmaps, which run in a little different directions, and above all to go in with money, as we in the Left Party have proposed, so that something actually happens. Now is the time for the next phase of this. I also welcome the fact that, if there are more aid packages, there will be some kind of climate counter-claim for the aviation industry. That's how I interpret the minister. It's really needed. Then I'd like to send the question about Bromma. Should we keep that airport until 2038? Arlanda's expansion feels rather obsolescence now in these times. Increased taxation, both nationally and internationally, is also very welcome. After all, as for Corsia, Sweden voted 'yes', just like all other EU countries, to 2019 as a base year. You fought well, but in the end you actually voted in favour of it. I would like to thank you for this debate.
i-f71c32c28de68181-50	Madam President, I would like We certainly share the vision that we need to build new main roads for modern and fast trains that can replace a great deal of unnecessary domestic air traffic, and also a great deal of international traffic to the continent. When Denmark completes its connection to Germany, we will be able to travel from Stockholm to Hamburg in five hours and avoid all the tangles of going out to Arlanda, checking in, going through security checks and all these things. We believe it is an effective way to move around, but it is not climate-smart. By train you can travel in a modern and much more convenient way. That is a good thing, and the government also wants to continue to expand the main roads so that we have this in place. When it comes to Fossil-free Sweden, it is something that we consider. Many of the proposals from Fossil-free Sweden's various roadmaps are contained in the climate action plan. It is not that we have not read them or taken care of them; they are in the climate action plan. There we have over 130 different notifications that we will go forward with. Research, incentives and money will continue to be needed in the Industrial Sector and other government initiatives ranging from CCS to various innovations for sustainable biofuels. We will also definitely need to review the future of aviation in connection with a Corona recovery plan. We already saw before covid-19 Sweden that flying went down in Sweden. It has done so because of people's awareness but also because of the policy measures we have decided on.
i-f71c32c28de68181-53	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me about concrete measures that will be taken to ensure that the Corona support efforts contribute to the achievement of Sweden's climate objectives. I want to start by being very clear. In parallel with the deep crisis we are currently experiencing, the climate issue remains the destiny of our time. It is therefore crucial that climate change is not given priority but rather a starting point for recovery in Sweden, the EU and the world. It is also essential that we do not repeat the mistakes of the 2008 financial crisis, where we can now see in retrospect that fossil fuels benefited from the recovery measures around the world. The Government considers that immediate measures to reduce the economic impact of the crisis should be environmentally and socially sustainable both in the short and long term, and should also be compatible with driving the green transition. The government also intends to work to ensure that EU recovery measures are consistent with the objective of a climate-neutral Europe by 2050. In a first stage, the priority has obviously been to prevent the spread of infection, to save jobs and to support companies. As the spread of infection decreases, focus is shifted to recovery e n. The focus of the government is extensive investment in green conversion, welfare and jobs. The implementation of the Paris Agreement and Sweden's national climate targets are a starting point, and emission reductions must go faster than they have done so far. State aid should not lead to a lower rate of conversion; on the contrary, it should lead to a faster reduction of emissions. Sweden has a climate policy action plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It covers a large number of principles and objectives which must also govern incentives. Where a proposed action with an impact on the climate is not directly affected by the Action Plan, the objectives and objectives of the Climate Act are guiding. We have undertaken in the Paris Agreement to ensure a gradual shift of financial flows in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. State aid to operators who maintain and develop sustainable services and solutions can contribute to the implementation of that commitment. This could include stimulating the transition to a circular and bio-based economy and promoting innovation and the development of new technologies and sustainable business models and infrastructure. It is only through cooperation that the climate issue can be resolved. Fossil-free Sweden was launched as an initiative by the government ahead of the Paris climate summit in 2015 with the goal that Sweden will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. The initiative was recently tasked with increasing industry to fossil freedom in the wake of the economic crisis caused by the pandemic. Madam President, I would like I would also like to conclude by being very clear. It is the decisions we are making now, both in politics and in business, that lay the foundations for the society we want tomorrow. Looking ahead, there is a unique opportunity to solve two crises simultaneously.
i-f71c32c28de68181-63	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Climate Action for the answer to my interpellation about a green restart after the Corona. I think there are many of us who have had time during these many weeks that have passed since the beginning and mid-March when the pandemic reached Europe and Sweden to think about what is important in life and also what kind of society we have built up and how well equipped we are for such sudden events. I think most people are right to agree that things like good health care and care for the elderly are important, that we cooperate and help each other and that we have a long-term policy. One such thing as the stockpiling of medicines and materials for health care is the important thing. At the same time, for several decades we have had a policy that has been very much about just-in-time, that we are organising the public sector according to new public management and that we have liberalised and privatised. In other words, we have given up the opportunity to direct society in the direction we want. We have been ill-equipped for crises in Sweden. I think these are important dimensions that must be included when we talk about life after the Corona and the opportunities that we then have – because a crisis is not only a crisis but also an opportunity to create something better. As far as the climate is concerned, we can see that emissions have fallen sharply. There is talk of an average reduction of 7 – 8 per cent in 2020. In Sweden alone, emissions only fell by 28 per cent in April. It can be seen that we are in a crisis. But it is not this form of emission reductions that we want, but we want them to be the fruit of our organised and structured work to create a better society. I think what the Environment and Climate Minister is saying here sounds good and well thought out. I would like to put a specific question to the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, who is also Deputy Prime Minister, and that is whether the government is planning for a comprehensive proposal for a red-green restart of Sweden where all these dimensions we are talking about are now included. If so, how will such a proposal be made? I am also thinking of such a thing as financial flows, which the Minister for Climate Change is addressing. At that time, I am thinking of our AP funds, which contribute to the destruction of rainforest in the Amazon – recent revelations were made about the investments of the Seventh AP Fund. I believe that a better structure of our financial flows and, not least, our public funds is extremely important in this context. I know that the government has put forward new investment directives for our AP funds, but they do not seem to bite, but the money is still being placed in rainforest deforestation and fossil activities. What's the minister gonna do about it? I had a few more questions, but I guess I'll have to come back with them.
i-f71c32c28de68181-71	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for a very important question! I very much agree that this is a crisis that has also been considered. I think that a lot of people have been fascinated by the power of action in a society when it really is a crisis – we have negotiated crisis packages of over 240 billion in a very short time – and by the fact that there is such a will to help when you really see the consequences of something that affects the whole world. People's best interests come out. You want to be in something positive. I very much agree that there is a window here to present visions of a better and less vulnerable society. It is clear that many of the things we have now suffered could have been prevented if we had had better emergency stocks, better civilian preparedness and, of course, if we had had better preparation in the care of the elderly and in the healthcare sector. We'll learn from this. The climate crisis will come as no surprise to anyone. This is something that the world's accumulated scientists have been warning about for decades. We need to prepare for that, and there is an opportunity to change at the same time as we are also building our societies after the Corona crisis. I think it is an interesting forecast with the global reduction in emissions of between 7% and 8% as a result of the Corona crisis. I think most people think that there would be a much greater reduction when all flights are on the ground and very large operations are down. But there is the point that we will not be able to cope with the climate crisis or the objectives of the Paris Agreement simply by shutting down. People still need food, clothing, housing and energy, so we also need to change. It is important that we have a structure in it. We have exactly the same view of it. When we come up with a larger recovery package, I cannot comment on it right now, but it is quite obvious that we will do so. The focus of the government is extensive investment in green transition, in welfare and in jobs. It is therefore not a green transition but also creating jobs, giving a kick start to the economy and continuing to develop Sweden as an innovation country where we can export smart climate solutions to the rest of the world. This is something on which the Green Party and the Social Democrats in the government are in complete agreement. We need to have the right financial instruments to get there. We have already announced that we will look into green credit guarantees. Last week the guidelines were ready for the new green bonds, and Swedish Export Credit can already provide loans for conversion in Sweden as well. It is also something that can be used as a lever for the green changeover.
i-f71c32c28de68181-78	Madam President, I would like This is exactly what the Minister says; the Riksdag and the Government have allocated approximately SEK 240 billion in conversion aid to individuals, companies and the public sector. For there are the 500 billion SEK with free money, as Stefan Ingves from the Riksbank calls it, i.e. loans at zero interest rates. What concerns me is that, so far, no demands have been made for compensation in terms of reducing emissions. It could be biodiversity or other green dimensions. Now we are not in the midst of the acute crisis phase, as we were in mid-March. Now we know much more about how we can design support packages that provide good social benefits, for society as a whole, but not least for the environment and the climate. It's such a concerted approach I'd like to see from the government. There is also enormous potential in rolling out the major investments, such as building high-speed rail lines and building rail in other parts of the country. There are concrete plans for that. But they're pretty far ahead. Can such investments be brought forward? The same applies to railway maintenance. Indeed, if rail travel has decreased by about 70% on our railways, the possibility of carrying out railway maintenance in a more coherent manner over long periods of time will be released. I know the government committed money. That's very good. We in the Left Party want more so that there can be more railway maintenance. The Climate Minister mentions the Fossil-free Sweden initiative, which we talked about earlier. As I said, this is an interesting initiative. But it feels like it really is time to take the next step, to move from the 21 roadmaps and ensure that they are operationalised and that there is action by them. I think it is also important to ensure that the action plans are coordinated so that there are not 21 roadmaps for more biofuels, which looks a bit like today in many of the roadmaps. One must take a holistic approach and include other important dimensions, such as biodiversity. I fully agree with what the Minister says about the importance of investing more in welfare. Can you imagine something more climate-smart than borrowing a book at a bi bliotek, being a teacher for 25 students and teaching them Spanish, English and mathematics or caring for people in care and medical care? These are activities that have almost no emissions at all. The public sector is very climate-smart. That is why it is also good to invest more in our common welfare. Speaking of Fossil-free Sweden, I would like to ask the Minister when we see a more integrated approach for Fossil-free Sweden, for example more money, so that the roadmaps can be launched in the near future. We now heard that there is no time plan for the comprehensive post-corona reboot program. But I hope that this is something the government is working on and that we can see a united grip sometime after the summer break, in the autumn. Sweden needs that.
i-f71c32c28de68181-85	Madam President, I would like Thanks again for the question, Jens Holm! We are really in the midst of a crisis still. During the initial period, it has been about saving jobs and saving businesses from going bankrupt and ensuring that we have a basis to stand on and then rebuild the economy. So far, half a million Swedish employees are covered by short-term lay-offs. This shows how broad this has hit the Swedish economy. When it comes to what we need to do in the next step, we are obviously working on planning for reconstruction. Jens Holm points to important parts. We need to strengthen energy and electricity supply in Sweden. I would like to repeat once again that it is not in the way that the government does not look at Fossil-free Sweden's roadmaps. I note that there are quite a few overlapping wishes, but some are competing. You need to take a holistic approach. The Government, together with the cooperation parties, has taken a holistic approach in the climate action plan. However, there are additional measures that need to be specified and perhaps also more concrete in terms of the resources needed. We will need to strengthen the electricity grid so that we can achieve the 100% renewable electricity target. We also have very high ambitions with regard to the railways. Just as Jens Holm says, there are now when the train travel has gone down, we hope temporarily, opportunities to perform increased maintenance during the time there are a little fewer trains on the tracks. But the important thing is to build the future with high-speed trains. There may also be a changed landscape when it comes to the tourism industry in a postcorona world. The government has so far made great efforts to preserve and protect valuable nature. Maintaining and upgrading also gives people the opportunity to get out into nature. Right now, people in Sweden have about two kilometres to the nearest outdoor area or sheltered area. It has been down since we took office, from three to two kilometres. We want to continue that work. The aim is to protect nature but also to give people equal access to nature. How important access to nature and public access is, I think many have discovered this spring. We will continue to bet on it. It is also something that benefits the tourism industry, which should be sustainable, around Sweden. Jens Holm asked when we should take the next step with Fossil free Sweden. We will take a new step when we come up with the post-corona recovery plan. He also asked what principles we follow. The principle is that state aid should not lead to lower conversion rates but to faster emission reductions. The implementation of the Paris Agreement and Sweden's national climate targets are the starting points, and emission reductions must go faster than hitherto. In fact, last year emissions from Swedish industry decreased by 5 per cent. It was a decisive step forward. We do not want emissions to be reduced due to a pandemic. We want it to be done through conversion.
i-f71c32c28de68181-93	Madam President, I would like I hope that in future conversion programmes there will be demands for compensation for the environment and climate. I would like to remind the Minister that when the six, or if there are seven, additional budgets have been presented this spring, the Left Party has recorded many proposals for more money for rail, more money for maintenance, money for Fossil-free Sweden, more money for expanding well-functioning broadband throughout the country and more money for public transport. So did we now. It's great, but it's gonna need more. I said earlier that a crisis is also an opportunity. Looking back in history, we can see that in the 1930s there was mass unemployment in the world. What was President Roosevelt doing in the United States? Well, he started the new deal, a big effort to create hope for the future and new jobs in North America. After World War II, massive investment was made in reconstruction. It also created great hope and faith in the future. At the beginning of the 70's there was an oil crisis with flashing prices of oil. What did we do? Well, we energy-efficiently phased out oil boilers in our houses and invested in renewable energy and some in nuclear energy – it was certainly not a major venture. What I'm saying is that a crisis is an opportunity. Now there is a window wide open for the government to invest widely in welfare and give more money there. We can invest in sustainable transport, in rail and in high-speed rail. Don't blow that chance! Let's do it! Let us present a large reboot package for Sweden that is sustainable!
i-f71c32c28de68181-96	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for your fire speech! I can largely agree. Sweden has uniquely good conditions for a large green gift in the recovery. In it, well-being and jobs are natural parts, because we have been working on this for so long. We have a climate law in place. We have roadmaps for 21 different sectors of Sweden's industry. They know what to do to achieve fossil freedom. This will create new jobs. The new jobs replace some old jobs, but there will also be many more jobs through, for example, renewable energy, extension of the railway, construction of housing, energy efficiency of old rentals that around Sweden stand and leak energy, investments in the tourism industry through renovation of natural areas as well as investments in welfare. I fully agree that all of this is an opportunity to build something much more sustainable while at the same time giving an economic big injection into Swedish development. Moreover, we are now pressing the EU hard so that the EU's green hand also continues to be on the table. I believe that at present 18 Member States have signed up to the green man being the foundation of a Corona recovery. There are some countries that continue to be a little sceptical and think that the economy should first recover before we can think about the climate. But the majority of countries see that the link is clear. We can get out of the crisis, and we can do it at the same time as we become fossil-free. This will benefit the health of European citizens as well as nature, and the future of our children will be safeguarded.
i-f71c32c28de68181-100	Madam President, I would like Mattias Vepsä has asked me what happens this autumn when the care queues remain and many people risk getting rid of the sickness allowance. He has also asked me how I and the government work to ensure that health insurance can be perceived as both more legal and more understandable, as well as from me and the government want to develop health insurance so that people can focus on getting healthy and restored without being worried about ending up in financial vulnerability. The government works to ensure that health insurance provides people with financial security in the event of illness both during the pandemic and in the long term. The suspension or cancellation of operations and rehabilitation measures due to covid-19 is very worrying, especially because the measures are important for people's well-being but also because the delays may affect the right to sickness benefit according to the rehabilitation chain. The Social Insurance Agency has submitted a request to the Ministry of Social Affairs to introduce a temporary provision allowing for derogations from the requirements for assessing the ability to work against normal jobs after day 180 and day 365 in the rehabilitation chain. The exceptions shall apply to those who have their treatment or rehabilitation postponed due to the current pandemic. The government will take any decision necessary to alleviate the consequences of the pandemic for citizens. The petition is now being prepared within the Government Office. The goal of our health insurance is for the person who gets sick to get back to work as soon as possible. But when you're sick and you can't work, the insurance should give people support and security. The investigation A safe health insurance centred on people was established to ensure a more effective and legally secure health insurance and review parts of the health insurance regulations relating to sickness benefit. The study's interim report, submitted in January, analyses that the regulatory framework is not flexible enough and that there are shortcomings in the handling of the Social Insurance Agency. The investigator has made a number of proposals for measures aimed, inter alia, at making health insurance more flexible and improving management. The proposals are now being prepared in the Government Office As Minister for Social Security, I am very concerned about the proper functioning of health insurance. Sweden should have safe and understandable health insurance. Nothing else is good enough.
i-f71c32c28de68181-105	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This debate will be about justice and security. As we have just heard, in my interpellation I have asked the Government questions about health insurance, which requires answers here and now, but also in the longer term. As a social democrat, I fight for a strong society. When you get sick, you're supposed to get community support. No one will be healthier by feeling worried about the economy, being forced into poverty or facing crises or calamity alone. On the contrary, the individual's security provides better opportunities for rapid rehabilitation, return to work and return to everyday life. In a strong society, we contribute together and take care of each other together. This means, in short, that when you are ill, you should be entitled to community support. It's together that we're the strongest. The Corona crisis has focused on the cracks in the facade that we see. It is very clear that welfare needs more resources, but we also need to improve health insurance. The Social Democraticly led government broke in 2014 with a policy based on tax cuts for the few and has instead prioritised more resources to health care, school and care. It is bets that come to many. This is excellent, but more needs to be done. For those looking at this debate, it is worth recalling at the outset what the government's own investigator said in January 2020, that is, just a few months ago, about the problems we have in today's health insurance. This concerned, in particular, the 180-day review of normal work. The investigator concluded, among other things, that flat-rate decision-making can be seen. Decisions lack predictability. The insured person does not understand the work against which he or she has had his or her ability to work tested when the examination has been carried out. Investigations are lacking, especially when it comes to what jobs have been assessed to be able to do. Insured persons with limited working hours are forced to switch to another job even though they have only a short time left to retire. There are no positions to clarify rehabilitation needs. The time limit at 180 days also seems to make it more difficult for more rehabilitation. You look far too much at the border that is getting closer and closer. Instead of rehabilitating, it is planned to test the person against another job. We also know that the rejections have increased dramatically. It seems that people are magically healthy by day 179. We know that sick leave today is a gender equality issue. More women are affected by long sick leave. This, in turn, affects the income of life and ultimately the pension. We know that mental illness is on the increase, and this accounts for about half of those who are long-term ill. In my interpellation, I asked a number of questions that require answers here and now. I see an urgent need to improve health insurance, strengthen rehabilitation, make decisions more transparent and easy to understand and increase legal certainty. As I have mentioned, we will be debating the ready-made proposals that exist. However, after I made my interpellation, Försäkringskassan asked the government to extend the derogation that currently exists in Coronatids and which allows people to continue to receive sickness benefit even though rehabilitation or surgery is cancelled. But it's getting urgent with a statement about what's going to happen in the fall. My question is therefore: what is the government's process of quickly returning to Parliament with proposals for changes that ensure that the person who is ill because of the coronan should not have to risk his sickness benefit and get rid of his financial security?
i-f71c32c28de68181-114	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Vepsä, for this question and for this important debate! Over the past 120 - 130 years, health insurance has been built up with sweat and tears. The sickness funds were started by our trade unions, among other things, to provide security for Swedish employees in the event of illness. Since then, the Swedish State has taken over health insurance and created the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to obtain a uniform insurance that provides people with financial security in case of illness. Today's health insurance is flawed. The legislative changes implemented during the 2006-2010 term have led to legal application that creates shortcomings in health insurance. These are effects which cannot be reasonable or desirable, particularly as regards entitlement to sickness benefit in the event of long-term illness, but also as regards entitlement to sickness benefit after the 179th day. This means that in the case of long-term illness there are shortcomings in the system we have for financial security. It is the government's duty to act. It is the government's duty to ensure that we obtain financial security for Swedish employees and entrepreneurs in the event of illness. Against this background, the Government set up an investigation, which has now put forward several proposals on the right to sickness benefit, in particular on the criticised part of the legislation and the application of the law concerning the right to sickness benefit after day 179, the concept of normal work and exemption from the review to be carried out. The investigation has also presented an analysis of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's handling and shown that there are shortcomings in it, not least with regard to the investigation work. In addition to this, the Government has set up an investigation to review the rules for sickness and activity compensation. We see a trend in which fewer and fewer are granted that benefit. The study will next year present proposals for changes to that regulatory framework. We take this work very seriously. At the moment, the government is preparing the proposals made by the inquiry into sickness benefit. We have received referrals in recent weeks and can note that there are a lot of referral bodies that want to see an enhanced health insurance and want us to deal with these unreasonable effects in health insurance. With regard to the emergency situation that we are in right now, the current regulatory framework, which has some shortcomings, not least as regards the right to sickness benefit at day 180, means that there is a risk that people will lose their sickness benefit when operations or rehabilitation efforts are cancelled or postponed. We have a square set of rules regarding the right to sickness benefit after day 179, which means that you can get rid of it if you do not have an operation or a rehabilitation operation planned. You normally get rid of your sickness benefit if you cannot expect to get back to work thanks to the planned treatment. This has completely unreasonable effects now that there are so many who have their surgery or rehabilitation treatment postponed. Therefore, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has taken a decision on a legal position whereby a temporary derogation is applied until October. Last week, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency also submitted a letter to the Government proposing an amendment to the regulation, a change of regulation, which would allow people to retain sickness benefit even if their rehabilitation or operation is postponed because of Corona. We're preparing this right now. It is very good that Försäkringskassan gives us a map of how to deal with the difficult situation here and now in anticipation of regulatory changes.
i-f71c32c28de68181-123	Madam President and the Council of Ministers. It is gratifying that the government is taking these issues seriously and that we are doing everything we can to ensure that those who risk their sickness benefits, their financial security and their lives are told this autumn. We look forward from the Riksdag to getting the proposals for decisions on the table, so that we make sure that we do not increase this concern, which is growing at the moment. I guess that's how it is for the Government as it is for us MPs– we hear a huge number of testimonies. We get e-mails every day. We're getting questions from citizens. We are reading on debate pages about the problems that exist in health insurance and about the concerns that not only exist now, but that grew above all during the eight years of the alliance government, as the Government also points out. So we are talking about one of society's most important safety nets. We can't be happy as long as this many people feel so worried, can we? In the second interim evaluation of the investigation, you can read about and see all the challenges that exist, as the Government also pointed out. It is a question of uncertainty about the decisions that have been taken and the excessive application of regulations that make rehabilitation almost non-existent or to a very small extent. These are issues that the government has devoted time to solving. I have also reviewed parts of the referrals received in this investigation. I got caught up in what TCO writes and says. The TCO federations face too many members who do not receive the rehabilitation and support they need. It is not uncommon that the start of rehabilitation efforts and a gradual return to work cannot be completed because the member loses his sickness benefit at day 180. Instead of being restored and returning to work, many remain in part - time work on the remaining work capacity. There is probably a large number of darkness here. Others go into unemployment with reduced work capacity and little chance of changing to get a new job. This is something that several consultative bodies agree with. LO has written about the same, and even regions have indicated that it looks like this. We need to do more. There appears to be broad support from Sweden's employees, in society, in several regions and at other consultation bodies. How does the government work to improve the basis of investigation and give people a proper opportunity to be rehabilitated and healthy? When will the government act?
i-f71c32c28de68181-128	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank Mattias Vepsä for the question. I would like to agree that this is an important part of Swedish welfare. The economic protection of people in the event of illness is an extremely important part of Swedish welfare. It has also been one of the benefits of Swedish society in comparison with other societies, which lack health insurance. Take the whole debate in the United States now for the Corona! There is no financial safety net for the people who are sick. We have a strength in Swedish society in that we have health insurance, but health insurance today has a lot of shortcomings that have arisen. We also see that the development of the application of the law at the moment is such that more and more people get rid of the sickness benefit after day 179. For some groups, health insurance is thus limited to 179 days. It doesn't make sense. This is also the background to the government's commission to investigator Claes Jansson to develop proposals for a regulatory framework for sickness benefit that ensures financial security in the event of illness. We now have those proposals on our table, and we have referred them to us. As described by Mattias Vepsä, many consultation bodies have been involved in the analysis of the development of health insurance and in the need for regulatory changes in accordance with the proposals put forward by the investigation. We have an obligation to maintain financial security in the event of illness. It requires regulatory changes. It also requires an active review of Försäkringskassan's handling of cases. Against this background, the Government has commissioned the Social Security Inspection to review the decision-making of the Social Insurance Agency and, not least, the investigation obligation of the Social Insurance Agency. The obligation of inquiry must of course be used to the advantage of both the applicant and – where the legislation says so – the applicant's disadvantage. But it is important that we have an active review of Försäkringskassan's investigations and investigation obligations to ensure that the Government governs Försäkringskassan correctly and that we have the right regulatory framework, which ensures financial security. The Social Security Inspection is working on that review and evaluation, and the Government will be informed. We have also received a great deal of input from the report referred to by Mattias Vepsä on the subject of investigation. It must be the case that people have a legally secure examination of their entitlement to sickness benefit and also health insurance in general. This presupposes that Försäkringskassan complies with the principles resulting from Swedish law regarding, among other things, the obligation to investigate. It is the government's duty to review this and act, so that we have the right governance of Försäkringskassan. But we do not come from the fact that the regulations play a role. If we have too square regulations, we create situations where people do not get financial security, although they are entitled to it. I therefore welcome the fact that there are now proposals on the table on regulatory changes. We are preparing these proposals in parallel with working on the emergency situation that we are in right now in relation to Corona and all the cancelled operations and rehabilitation operations that have consequences for the right to health insurance. It is very important that we have received a basis from Försäkringskassan with proposals for regulatory changes, and we are currently analysing and preparing those proposals.
i-f71c32c28de68181-135	Madam President, I would like I believe that Sweden can afford safe and understandable health insurance. It's about decency. The principle is simple: We pay when we are healthy, and we get back when we are sick. We want health insurance that means that those who are ill and unable to work are entitled to rapid rehabilitation and financial security during the time this takes. When the accident arrives, it should not be health insurance that you are concerned about. Right now, the Corona crisis is affecting thousands of people. Operations and rehabilitation interventions are cancelled. Now many are being forced into uncertainty and anxiety. In October, if we do not act now, the possibility of continuing to support those who have sickness benefit will disappear. I don't want to watch people get insured. The derogation from health insurance, which is currently in force and which will postpone the examination at 180 days, must therefore be extended. As I am trying to demonstrate in this debate, we must also see that today's system needs to be developed. The rules for receiving sickness and activity benefits are, to say the least, square. The focus on rehabilitation needs to be strengthened. People must be given a chance to get well. Let me be clear: anyone who cannot work because of illness must be given financial security and the necessary chance of rehabilitation. Work on health insurance does not stop because of the exceptional measures currently being taken because of the Corona virus. On the contrary, this crisis shows that the need for change is enormous. Disease and ill-health particularly affect already vulnerable and weaker groups in society. For me, safe and well-functioning health insurance is part of the strong society. Health insurance needs to be strengthened. Thank you for this debate. I look forward to the continued work of the government.
i-f71c32c28de68181-142	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Vepsä, for the interpellation and for this debate! If you hesitated about the importance of health insurance in the Swedish welfare state, you got answers during the Corona crisis. That is why we have now had to take a number of extraordinary measures within the framework of the health insurance system. We see that financial security also means a great deal to combat the infection – that people should have financial opportunities to stay at home when they are ill. It is one of the forces of Swedish society. One of the reasons why we have had to take extraordinary decisions on health insurance is that there are shortcomings in health insurance legislation and in its application. We have now drawn attention to another part of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency in the letter sent to the Government. The government is prepared to take the necessary measures to deal with the Corona crisis – including its economic effects and consequences for people in our country. That is why, of course, this aspect is part of the government's response to the Corona crisis. We are focused on taking the necessary measures. It cannot be reasonable for people to be thrown out of health insurance and to lose their financial security because of operations and rehabilitation efforts being cancelled because of Corona. That was not the idea of Swedish health insurance. I can assure Mattias Vepsä and the Swedish Parliament that the government is acting. We take this issue very seriously and combine the work of dealing with the acute crisis with the long-term issues of health insurance, which are affected, among other things, by the investigation we have discussed during this debate. Thank you for the debate.
i-f71c32c28de68181-147	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to demand responsibility from China and the WHO and what measures I and the government intend to take to limit China's global advance in the wake of the pandemic. I would like to begin by welcoming the opportunity for talks on the very serious challenge facing the whole world as a result of the outbreak of covid-19. From the government's point of view, we have stressed from the outset the importance of international cooperation in the fight against the spread of infectious diseases. Sweden supports the WHO, whose work plays a crucial role, not least in increasing knowledge about the origin and spread of the infection and how best to combat it. In this context, I would also like to emphasise the importance of transparency. In order for international cooperation to work, transparency is essential on the part of all the countries concerned. This applies, of course, to China, as to all other countries. The government has previously stated that n is the global situation for covid-19 is under control, it is both reasonable and important that an international independent study be conducted to gain knowledge of the origin and spread of the coronavirus. It is also important that the whole international community's commitment to the covid-19 pandemic be highlighted. At the WHO's highest decision-making assembly, the World Health Assembly, which met on 18 and 19 May, it was decided that an evaluation of the WHO covid-19 response should be carried out, as part of a broader resolution on covid-19. The exact form and timetable will now be prepared by the WHO, in consultation with the Member States. As far as China's position in the world is concerned, no conclusions can yet be drawn on the impact of the virus outbreak. The government's starting point since earlier is the one that we reported to Parliament in our letter last autumn, Work on issues relating to China, which I had the privilege of discussing in the House in December. The government states there that China's emergence is one of the biggest global changes since the fall of the Berlin Wall. China today has a global presence and a growing influence, which presents Sweden and the EU with a number of new issues. China's development represents both opportunities and challenges that affect an increasing number of government policies. This basic view applied prior to the outbreak of the virus, and it continues to apply. As the government further states, the EU is a cornerstone of the government's work on issues relating to China. It is of central importance for Sweden that the EU pursues a common, strong and clear China policy. The 2016 EU China Strategy is the basis of this policy. S trategin states that the EU will interact with China in areas where we have a mutual interest, such as the economy, trade, environment and health. Many global challenges can only be resolved jointly with China, and the Council welcomes a broad dialogue with China. At the same time, the EU must also make demands, and the EU strategy states that we must build on our own values and interests in relations with China. The government will, primarily through the EU, interact with like-minded people and demand that China comply with its international legal obligations and assume responsibility for rule-based multilateral cooperation and action in accordance with international law. This applies to the health sector as well as to all other areas.
i-f71c32c28de68181-155	Madam President, I would like I have great understanding of the current workload of Ann Linde and the rest of the government, which is why I would like to start by thanking the Government for taking the time. It is my belief that it is of the utmost importance that we already, but perhaps primarily in the aftermath of covid-19, actually evaluate how politics has acted, what has been done correctly and what should have been done differently. In view of this, I hope that this interpellation can help initiate a dialogue across party boundaries on this subject – in this case, specifically around China's actions. Ann Linde mentions in her reply that the government considers that, when the global situation of covid-19 is under control, it is reasonable for an international independent study to be carried out to gain knowledge of the origin and spread of the coronavirus. I am pleased to hear that, and that is, of course, something that the Swedish Democrats are behind. That such a review is desirable, I have also mentioned in my interpellation. A review is important not least to determine whether the virus actually came from a wet market or from a laboratory. We know that China's wet markets are ticking pandemic bombs, so it can only be considered deeply reckless and irresponsible that China has allowed their existence until now, after the pandemic. At the same time, more and more people are claiming that the wet markets may not have been the bad guys in this case. The American administration claims to be able to prove that the virus originated in a laboratory, a thesis that only last week was supported by a British and a Norwegian study, as Forbes wrote yesterday. I do not intend to claim to know which of those things is true. Rather, I would like to stress that, regardless of which China was undoubtedly the sender, China must also be held accountable afterwards with the consequences it entails. The fact that China has also used the situation to strengthen its power economically and politically, both locally in Hong Kong and globally, exacerbates the situation. China's entry into Norwegian might have put its finger on this. Sweden is no exception. Last autumn, Totalförsvarets forskningsinstitut released its report on Chinese company acquisitions in Sweden, and the Chinese ambassador in Sweden has repeatedly crossed the border. For a long time, unfortunately without success, the Swedish Democrats have pointed out the need for a review mechanism to prevent foreign direct investment in areas worthy of protection. When I pointed out this deficiency before the pandemic, the government has referred to an investigation that would be finalized late next year. However, the influence of the Pandemin as well as the Commission's calls and the initiative of the Parliament have succeeded in convincing the government to speed up its work. Last week, the government decided on a legislative referral in this area. My question, Madam President, is whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that the government should have done more earlier so that today we could have been better equipped to face foreign security threats of this nature.
i-f71c32c28de68181-164	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Tobias Andersson, for the interpellation! These are important issues. I would like to begin by saying that from the beginning of the outbreak of the pandemic, the government has said how important international cooperation is in the work against the spread of infection. Transparency is therefore crucial and perhaps particularly important from countries such as China where it is not normally full transparency. So there we have the same view. We also support efforts to increase knowledge about the origin and spread of the disease and how best to combat it. Tobias Andersson had some theories, but I don't want to speculate on it until the investigation itself and the WHO's evaluation are done. The government is very clear that when the global situation is under control, it is important to have an international and independent investigation so that we get a real knowledge of the spread and origin of the infection itself. We have also stressed the importance of looking at the management of the pandemic by the entire international community. This also applies, of course, to the work of the World Health Organisation itself. We welcomed the EU's initiative for a resolution at the annual meeting held in May. We have also been very proactive in this process, despite the fact that it has been very difficult negotiations to get a resolution. What was good about that is that the final text could be adopted by consensus. 145 countries called themselves co-sponsors. It instructs the Director-General of the World Health Organisation to initiate this investigation and to draw up recommendations to strengthen prevention and preparedness for future pandemics. The investigation will come as early as the situation allows. The exact form and timetable are now being prepared in the secretariat. The issue of the investment review raised by Tobias Andersson is extremely important, which is why we also decided on the legislative referral. It concerns two different decisions to see how we can protect both defence security and public security. These include questions of this kind. It's taken time to get this out. These are very complicated questions. I've been doing this myself for a long time. It is about, for example, the type of investment that an investment-dependent country that Sweden should be able to say no to. How do you say no? Is there going to be any compensation if you say no to an investment that a company wants? There are a lot of questions that are not so easy. I therefore believe that the legislative referral will be very important when it comes to determining what meets what we want along with the various interests that need to be taken into account. I therefore share Tobias Andersson's view that the issue is very important.
i-f71c32c28de68181-173	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. First of all, I would like to make it clear that I do not have my own thesis on the issue where the spread of the disease originated; I only reported on the two central theses in this area. There should be no misunderstanding about that. I would also like to say that I am, of course, behind the government in the work that has been initiated with other states within the framework of the World Health Organisation and others in order to get an investigation in place. I also mentioned in the previous speech that we appreciate and support the work that the government has done in this area. At the same time, I would like to say right now that there is sufficient evidence to condemn the initial actions of both China and the WHO. First of all, China's early actions are strongly suggestive of the dark virus outbreak and of an active campaign against accurate information reaching the outside world. It is a criticism that has come, above all, from the United States. Already between 26 and 29 December, evidence was found in Chinese media that a new virus was spread from Wuhan. The Taiwanese authorities then announced to the WHO that there was evidence that the virus spread between humans. However, that information was not disseminated by the World Health Organization on that occasion. The United States believes that the reason was that the information and other data were in conflict with the official positions of the Chinese Communist Party regarding the complete control of the virus. There are several such examples. Had accurate information been disseminated early on from both China and the World Health Organisation, it is quite possible that the pandemic could have been better managed and human lives saved. Secondly, throughout the pandemic, China has exploited the situation by highlighting itself as being capable, on the one hand, of combating the virus and, on the other hand, as a rescuer in need of the outside world, and, on the other hand, by assisting desperate countries in the delivery of medical equipment. This type of aid has been seen as crucial to the ability of certain states to deal with the pandemic, with a debt of gratitude to China arising. Despite the fact that the problems have just come from China, they have thus managed to strengthen their soft power. Thirdly, as I touched on in my previous speech, it is clear that in the aftermath of the pandemic China will have strengthened its role as a world power through takeovers in strategically important sectors. More and more vital infrastructure will indirectly belong to the Chinese State through the acquisitions that Chinese companies take the opportunity to make at sale prices. In other words, China has managed to both cause and initially cover up a pandemic and exploit the situation to strengthen its position politically and economically, all at the expense of the free world. Madam President, I would like This is a textbook example of true Machiavelli's spirit dividing and ruling. In view of this, I believe that the government should be able to condemn China's actions right now without waiting for the potential future multilateral investigation that is being called for. Could the Foreign Minister do that?
i-f71c32c28de68181-183	Madam President, I would like We agree that China's emergence is one of the biggest global changes since the fall of the Berlin Wall. However, with regard to the implications of the Corona virus for China's position in the world, no clear conclusions can be drawn. For example, we cannot see right now that China has used the situation to buy up Swedish companies to some extent because of the Corona virus. It can come, and we'll see what's happening; but we can't see it right now. The same was true before the outbreak. At that time there was increased influence on the part of China both in different countries and in international organisations. And that brings us to a number of rather difficult questions. There are great opportunities and great challenges here. Sometimes we agree with criticism that the United States has brought forward, but we believe that the way to act is to remain in multilateral organisations. The United States chose to leave the WHO and withdraw its financial support, which was the biggest aid. I myself asked my American colleague Pompeo to reconsider the decision. There will be no less influence from China if the United States leaves the organization. Instead, it is the opposite. China has also said that it is prepared to pay some of the money that the United States is now withdrawing. My view is that it would be much better in all aspects, purely health and influence aspects, if the United States remained in the WHO. In accordance with the letter on China submitted by the government to the Riksdag, on which there were good discussions and broad consensus on relations with China, it is important that we continue to demand that China comply with international law obligations and take responsibility for multilateral cooperation. Work on covid-19 and the need for multilateral cooperation will be highlighted at the EU-China Summit later this year. It is possible that the meeting has been moved forward a little bit; I am not sure about the dates. However, there is a risk that the coronapendem will lead to a undermining of democratic principles in China and in other countries and that respect for human rights in the world will be undermined. Then it was a question of whether I am prepared to express a condemnation. I would like to wait for an investigation from the WHO so that we can see what has happened, who has done what and if it had been possible to act differently. It is better to find out what has happened before we draw any conclusions.
i-f71c32c28de68181-188	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his reply. I note that China's increased position in the world economy and in multilateral organisations by the Foreign Minister is referred to as a major change. I believe that the correct term in many ways is a threat, not just a change. Nor have I advocated Sweden leaving the World Health Organisation or any other multilateral organisation in the same way that the Trump administration has chosen to do. What I have asked for in the interpellation is a condemnation of China's initial action. There has so far been no such thing from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Madam President, I would like I cannot help but wonder what it takes for the government to condemn a state if it is not enough that a state's action has caused a global pandemic, hundreds of thousands of deaths and more than four and a half thousand deaths in Sweden. If you are not inclined to condemn a state, then the question is when you might do so. If we take this down a little bit on the scale, the Foreign Minister may at least be able to criticise China's initial action. It does not have to be in the form of condemnation, but in the form of criticism, that it has been sloppy or flawed. I believe that, as Ann Linde mentions, in the aftermath of more in-depth investigations, hopefully objective and neutral ones, we may have reason to discuss and debate again China's actions as well as those of others during the pandemic. I'm looking forward to that. Here and now, I hope that the Foreign Minister, in his final speech, can make a sharper criticism of China than has so far been done.
i-f71c32c28de68181-192	Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemy is global in nature. Only through responsible and transparent cooperation at global level can we combat covid-19, ensure global economic recovery and create improved information sharing, prevention and better preparedness for new pandemics in the future. To achieve success in this work, we need a well-functioning international rule-based cooperation based on international law. The Government promotes effective international cooperation in the field of health and the World Health Organisation as its core, based on the International Health Regulations. The government will work to ensure that the EU is actively involved in the evaluation work that the World Health Organisation has been mandated to implement in response to covid-19. It is precisely to increase knowledge of the origins of the Corona virus and its spread and to strengthen the ability of the international community to deal with future pandemics. I do not think it makes sense to condemn or criticise China or any other country, especially now that an evaluation has been carried out. The government will continue to make demands on China, both to take responsibility for rule-based multilateral cooperation and to act in accordance with international law on all issues. We will do so within the framework of EU cooperation and in our own contacts with China.
i-f71c32c28de68181-195	Madam President, I would like Helena Vilhelmsson has asked me if I believe that Campus Grythyttan's activities are a hub for tourism, meal training, sustainability and entrepreneurship that should be preserved in Grythyttan and, if so, what I intend to do to secure Campus Grythyttan. I share Helena Vilhelmsson's view that Campus Grythyttan's activities are a hub for tourism, meal training, sustainability and entrepreneurship for Grythyttan. Campus Grythyttan has helped to put meal, hosting and sustainability on the map. I also fully understand that Örebro University wants to investigate how best conditions can be given for the university's education and research. I understand that the university wants to take a closer look at the education in Grythyttan to develop the education so that it is of high quality and that more students want to apply for it. It is responsible for the university to do so. As the interpellant states, it is also stated in the regulation letter for Örebro University that there should be restaurant training in Grythyttan. I have no plans to initiate any changes to Örebro University's regulations in this regard.
i-f71c32c28de68181-199	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister Ernkrans, for your answer. That sounds good and reassuring, but I am not entirely sure or safe with the Government's response. I think a lot of people with me are a little thoughtful. The background is that earlier this year the management of Örebro University appointed an investigation to look at, as the Government says, the activities of the University of Restaurang and Hotel Campus Grythyttan. A reduced search pressure is given as a reason to want to look at this. It also wants to investigate the research environment. The subject of culinary knowledge is young, and the research environment is small. The influx of external research funds is and has been limited; it should be allowed. But it is also said that the premises are no longer suitable and need to be renovated. The need for renovation is great – that it would cost about 80 million SEK has been mentioned. Therefore, it also wants to evaluate the location of the future business in order to pursue the business responsibly. The Government did not mention this in its answer, but the fact is that all these points are valued from where they work best, in Grythyttan or in Örebro. Yes, it's responsible, but always when I hear this kind of thing, there's a little warning flag in my brain. What is it that says that what I have listed and that one looks at is better done in a larger place than in a smaller place? I think most of this investigation is about the place issue. It is important when it comes to gastronomy and meal training, because what is it that suggests that an activity develops in a small and a large place? If you look at what has been written and researched about this, you can see that of course more research has been done on how an activity develops and is conducted in a quality way in a larger city with an urbanisation perspective than in a small town with a rural perspective. This means that it is probably easier to find arguments for moving the business than to keep it. The unique thing about the education in Grythyttan is that it is the tourism industry that is important, and gastronomy and culinary knowledge are strongly associated with this. Gastronomy is a creative subject, so an inspiring environment is important. A place tradition is also important; we agree on that. We know that Grythyttan has tradition and is an exciting, exotic place. It is said that the location link is what separates gastronomy from ordinary cooking. This means that a relocation of the business will cause the site identity to be uprooted. It can certainly be rebuilt, I'll tell all the örebroers, but it takes its time. Do we have that time? Does Örebro University have the time, the courage and the economy to do this? I believe that what is good for rural areas is always good for activities in a larger area. But it is not certain that it is always the opposite. I also think that a university has an important role to play in regional development. Although the investigation should not look at it, I think it is the responsibility of the Government and the Government to ensure that this development continues. Örebro University has a history as a regional engine. Other activities have been carried out regionally: Campus Kopparberg and Campus Alfred Nobel. However, these activities have been closed down, but the Restaurant and Hotel College in Grythyttan remains and works according to the conditions very well. Can the Minister say something about his view of the university as a regional hub, i.e. about the importance of it being part of regional development?
i-f71c32c28de68181-209	Madam President, I would like As a general starting point, I would like to say that it is important for the government to have access to quality education throughout the country, not just in the larger cities. It is one way of ensuring access to education and that there is a good state presence throughout the country. I would also like to say that it is the responsibility of the HEI to ensure that the education is conducted with good quality. For this reason, I understand that Örebro University has chosen to take a closer look at the programme and want to develop it so that more students can apply for it and it continues to be of good quality. It is responsible for the university to do so; I have to say that. At the same time, I cannot, I do not want to, do anything other than note that this is stated in the regulation letter for Örebro University and have done so since 19 93/ 94. It has returned in the university's regulation letter every year – in fact, regardless of the government constellation, it has been stated in the regulation letter and still does – that one should conduct restaurant training in Grythyttan. I have no intention of taking the initiative to make any changes to Örebro University's regulatory letters in this regard. I share the view that Campus Grythyttan's activities are a hub for tourism, meal training, sustainability and entrepreneurship in Grythyttan. For this reason, I can only be clear about what it is and that it has been and still exists in the regulatory letter. As I said, I do not intend to take any initiatives to amend the regulatory letter. But you have to distinguish between different parts here, and it is still the case that it is responsible for Örebro University to take responsibility for ensuring that all the education you conduct at Örebro University is conducted with high quality. This is the responsibility I perceive the university will take with this investigation.
i-f71c32c28de68181-214	Madam President, I would like Then I am perhaps a little more confident that the Minister and the Government will not currently change the regulation letter. I understand that, too. But it is still the case that the investigation is under way, and what I think is lacking in the investigation directives is the regional aspect. I also think it is responsible for the university to investigate quality, finances, resources and so on. But one forgets the Academy's responsibility for regional development. I'm not the only one who thinks so. As the Minister has probably also seen, there are now well over 30 debate articles and media articles about the importance of Campus Grythyttan for the entire county. That aspect is not part of the investigation, I mean. It is a responsibility that we all have and that the Minister and the Government have. I'll tell the minister about it-- she'll have to see it when the investigation comes up with her proposal. With regard to the search pressure, it has declined for a number of years. But this year it has actually increased again, despite this investigation, which is nice. It may, of course, have to do with the fact that there has been a boom and that we have now entered a pandemic and there is likely to be a recession, which in itself makes this even more necessary. The tourism industry is one of the most important industries, and academia and education for this industry are extremely important. As far as the premises are concerned, I may have to ask you a question about the economy. It is said that the need for renovation of the premises and investment is very great. I do not believe that any desire for either expansion or rehabilitation has been expressed by Campus Grythyttan. Yet it is said that it is a great need. I am not so sure that the property owner Akademiska Hus shares the view that it is a great need. But the economy is also part of the investigation. The economy has been very important over the years because the state contributed to the financing of Mealtidens Hus, that it came from the world exhibition in Seville, that there is a localisation grant per year and so on. If the investigation concludes that there is a need for stronger financial support to keep the education in Grythyttan, is that something that the Minister and the government might consider looking at?
i-f71c32c28de68181-219	Madam President, I would like We must remember that it is the university that has its own authority – all state colleges and universities are their own authorities – who are responsible for ensuring that the education is of high quality. It is also their responsibility to ensure that the business is handled wisely and well. I understand that the study commissioned by Örebro University and now carried out by Örebro University will be an unconditional review of the education in Grythyttan and assume that you want to strengthen the quality and ensure that you get more students to the education. I understand this and I think it is responsible. What I have said and can repeat here is that it says and since 1993/ 94 has been written in Örebro University's regulation letter that there will be restaurant training in Grythyttan. If the government states in the regulation letter that a university or college should provide an education, in this case restaurant training in Grythyttan, it means that the university must do this. As I said, I do not intend to take any initiatives to change the regulation letter for Örebro University. A possible case to the Government Office must be prepared in the usual way in order to arrive at the government's position. Such a matter is not on the government's table. If such a matter were to end up on the government's table, we would have to deal with it as we go. However, as a minister, I personally do not, I would like to repeat to the interpellant, intend to take some initiatives to change the regulatory letter. I think that governments of different constellations for many years since 1993/ 94 have clearly expressed the importance of the mission to Örebro University to conduct restaurant training in Grythyttan. This education, like any other academic education, must be of high quality. It's important. The cooperation with the Center Party and the Liberals on which the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government rests applies both to the substance and to the budget. In what we call the January Agreement, it is very clear that we should continue to ensure that we have higher education throughout the country and that we should continue with the Knowledgelift. I think there is a clear impression in the January agreement, for which we jointly take responsibility, in ensuring that we have higher education throughout the country, not just in the big cities.
i-f71c32c28de68181-225	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister Ernkrans! I agree, and I am also pleased with what is stated in the January agreement. I am reasonably safe with the business as it is built up today, but it is no wonder that when an investigation is started, one becomes thoughtful without taking into account the regional development aspect. It is about the Academy's responsibility to be a strong part of regional development, in Örebro County and throughout the country, in order for us to move forward in terms of housing, educational opportunities and work. This is incredibly important. I think it is unfortunate that it is not there – and I know that the Minister cannot control this. I have also said that I think that, for example, Region Örebro County would be a part of this investigation; I am a little unsure if they have been. So I lift this, and I want to do everything I can to sue in the stream. Because, after all, this investigation will soon come. It was supposed to have already arrived when I sent in this interpellation. I don't know if the minister knows what's actually in it. Finally, I would just like to send you the way I see this. Campus Grythyttan has been around for 30 years. If you pull up the root of a knowledge tree that for 30 years has carried food quality, social community, tourism and sustainability to replant it in an environment without this experience, it is not certain that the tree will even begin to grow. This takes an incredible amount of time, and you lose a lot. I won't ask the question again, because I think I'll get the same answer. I would have liked to ask the question: What would be required for the Government and the Government to change the regulation letter? But I'm not asking that question.
i-f71c32c28de68181-229	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Vilhelmsson, for your commitment to this matter! The Parliament spoke on the issue of the placement of education in Grythyttan already in the early 90s. With this interpellation, I can note that there is still a strong interest in this issue in Parliament today. In addition, as the interpellier also points out, we are now in a position where we have a record high search pressure for higher education. It is absolutely excellent, I think, as Minister for Higher Education and Research, if we can use the crisis that we are now being tested by under the coronapndemine to actually educate people so that we, both as individuals and society, can stand stronger after the crisis. When it comes to Campus Grythyttan, I would like to repeat once again that I share the view that Campus Grythyttan's activities are a hub for tourism, meal training, sustainability and entrepreneurship for Grythyttan. Campus Grythyttan has helped to put meal, hosting and sustainability on the map. I also have a full understanding of Örebro University's willingness to investigate this so that you can develop the education and ensure that it is of high quality and that more students go there. This is responsible by the university. But, as I said, it says and has long been in the regulation letter that Örebro University will conduct restaurant training in Grythyttan, and I have no plans to take the initiative to make any changes to Örebro University's regulations in this regard.
