i-71396076af9b8d80-0	Madam President, I would like Ciczie Weidby has asked me how I see temporary employment becoming increasingly uncertain, what measures I intend to take to reduce the number of precarious jobs and thus increase equality in society and what other measures I intend to take in the field of labour market in order to increase equality in society. Let me begin by saying that we are in a very different position today from the one that prevailed when Ciczie Weidby wrote the interpellation and when my answer was produced. The Corona crisis has hit the economy hard both globally and in Sweden. The full impact on the labour market is not yet known, but we can already say that companies will go bankrupt and that jobs will disappear. My full focus here and now is to deal with the crisis, and the government will do everything in our power to save jobs and protect wage earners. The government has already presented a number of measures, such as lower thresholds and increased compensation to the unemployment fund. These are measures that touch on the questions that Ciczie Weidby has put to me and that we will certainly have reason to come back to in the interpellation debate. Then to the answer. An important foundation of the Swedish labour market is the job security and financial security that an open-ended employment contract brings with it. Until further employment contracts will therefore remain the main rule of the Swedish labour market. T limited employment, however, plays an important role for employers who are in temporary need of labour when, for example, an employer needs to replace temporarily absent staff. T limited employment, such as temporary employment, can also be a way into working life, not least for groups that are far from the labour market, such as young people and newcomers. At the same time, a rapid restructuring of the economy and the rest of the labour market is ongoing, leading to the creation of many new jobs. The labour market and the rest of society are affected by globalisation, digitalisation and technological development, among other things. This changes the circumstances and needs of both employers and workers. Workers need protection adapted to the new labour market, where an increasingly important part of security is the continuous development of skills in employment and the strengthening of employability. The Swedish labour market model is based on a division of responsibilities between the state and the social partners. The role of the state is to ensure good working conditions and facilitate the creation of new jobs through an effective regulatory framework and other instruments, while at the same time creating the conditions for the social partners to take responsibility in collective agreements for the detailed design of the terms and conditions. The fact that the parties take a great responsibility for the regulation of the labour market and adapt the conditions to the conditions in different industries and based on increased demands for rapid transition strengthens Sweden's competitiveness and is an important part of the Swedish labour market model. The Government has set up an investigation that will, among other things, consider constitutional proposals in order to create a better balance in the employment protection of staff with different terms of employment and to draw up legislative proposals to strengthen the employer's responsibility for competence development and the adaptability of employees. The investigator will analyse the impact from a gender perspective and the impact of the proposals on different groups in the labour market, including the elderly, newly arrived and employees with reduced health, as well as the socio-economic impact. The investigation shall report on its mission by 31 May at the latest. The social partners negotiate in parallel with the investigation, and if the parties reach a final agreement on how to reform labour law in a way that provides greater flexibility, the January agreement follows that the government will then make proposals in line with the agreement of the parties. The further preparation of the proposals that one or the social partners will later come up with is something we will have to consider later in the autumn.
i-71396076af9b8d80-9	Madam President, I would like I thank Eva Nordmark for her reply. My question was, of course, asked before the crisis began, and the Government's response was then produced. Nevertheless, I wish we could have a debate and discussion despite the situation at the moment. Sweden is the country in the Western world where inequality has increased most in recent decades. Growing gaps have major consequences for the economy, for the cohesion of society and for individual power and opportunities in life. There are many reasons for this development, including changes in the labour market. One such change is that the labour force has become more divided into on the one hand a well-established core with relatively safe working conditions, on the other hand a periphery with a large group of people in precarious employment. The proportion of temporary employment has been fairly constant over the last 15 years, but temporary employment has become increasingly uncertain. The explanation for this is that the fixed-term contracts in turn consist of several different forms of uncertainty, i.e. fixed-term general employment and various forms of needs. At the same time, the somewhat more secure forms, such as substitute forms, have been reduced. Eva Nordmark says that fixed-term employment plays an important role for employers who are in temporary need of labour, for example when an employer needs to replace temporarily absent staff, and that it could be a way into working life for certain groups that are part of the labour market. Of course, the Left Party agrees that there must be an opportunity for employers to replace temporarily absent staff. It's obvious. The problem is that a majority of fixed-term contracts do not replace temporarily absent staff at all, but employers put in a system of hiring people with fixed-term contracts because they can, because it is simple and because it is cheap. The price is paid by employees in the form of insecurity. Madam President, I would like I wonder whether the Minister thinks it reasonable for employers to stack temporary jobs on each other despite the fact that there is a continuous need for labour in the workplace.
i-71396076af9b8d80-15	Madam President, I would like Ciczie Weidby asks many important questions, and she gives an important picture of the problems we see, and has seen for a period, in the Swedish labour market where temporary employment is sometimes abused. That is something that we need to resist together. An important part is, of course, that we have a strong partner model and strong trade union organisations that can see and detect the problems and address them in different ways. One example in which I would like to highlight the excellence of the Swedish model is, for example, the development we have seen where more and more companies in the platform economy are emerging and where there have been some competition issues. Several federations have been able to sign collective agreements with companies of this type, which will make it much easier for those who work in the companies. We shall have decent conditions in the Swedish labour market; that is something that I, as a Social Democrat and Minister for Labour, of course, are passionate about. Right now we are in an exceptional position on the labour market. It is not possible to think it out in this debate. Yesterday, the highest notice figures on the Swedish labour market were published in modern times – 36,800 people have been given notice during the month of March. In those statistics we do not see all those who have temporary jobs, because they are not covered. But we know that thousands of people have lost their livelihood during this month, and it is clear that this is something that the government is now working hard to solve. It is now a matter of ensuring that both the transmission of the corona virus and the capacity of care are reduced, but also that we can mitigate the economic effects of this crisis and in that way do everything in our power to save businesses and save jobs, whatever the type of job. Of course, this includes people with all forms of employment. That is something that we in this House must focus fully on.
i-71396076af9b8d80-20	Madam President, I would like It's almost like Eva Nordmark looked a little into my papers. The interesting thing is that of all those who are now being told, there are a huge number more that are not visible in the statistics. All hourly employees, all who have needs and constantly sleep with their mobile phones and hope to get some extra hours, they are not included in this. They have no security either. Madam President, I would like Eva Nordmark says that the Swedish labour market model is important, that it is based on a division between the state and the social partners and so on and that the role of the state in this is to ensure good working conditions, facilitate the creation of jobs and so on. The Left Party naturally defends the Swedish labour market model, in which the state sets the framework for the conditions that apply to the labour market and to the parties. But for that model to work, a balance is needed between the social partners, that is, unions and employers. If one side gets a lot of power, the whole model risks lining up. Over the past 30 to 40 years, there has been a major shift of power in the labour market to the advantage of the employer, and this is largely due to political decisions. We have a very liberalised labour law, a eroded budget and a changed labour market policy. We have a very liberal and flexible framework for the labour market that is on employers' terms. Nevertheless, it is political decisions that have created the regulatory framework that we now have, which I believe leads to more precarious employment. I would like to come back to this, Madam President, because if we are to restore the balance between trade unions and employers, we need more political decisions. We must abolish the general fixed-term, limit the use of temporary agencies, ban planing and so on. Madam President, I would like I just wonder whether the Minister believes that we have an appropriate regulatory framework that ensures good working conditions in the labour market. If the Minister for Labour thinks so, why does such a large proportion of workers have precarious jobs? And if so, why is the proportion of the most precarious jobs increasing? Madam President, I would like From my point of view, it is quite clear that policy needs to change the regulatory framework so that we have more secure jobs.
i-71396076af9b8d80-28	Madam President, I would like I share Ciczie Weidbys's view that what we need to ensure is that more and more people are getting secure jobs. Ensuring that the Swedish labour market has secure employment and good working conditions is an important priority. It is also important for the security of working life to be able to make changes through an entire working life. However, the situation right now is that we are talking about how we should have jobs in the labour market at all. First of all, we need to save jobs, and that is the top priority right now. One of the issues raised by Ciczie Weidby is the issue of regulations. Yesterday we were able to present a number of measures relating to unemployment insurance. It is an important key to ensuring security in the labour market. It is no secret that I have seen for a long time that we need to make changes and improvements in unemployment insurance. Yesterday we were able to present that we are raising both the basics and the ceiling of the unemployment insurance fund and ensuring that it is faster to qualify for unemployment insurance. We ease the working conditions so that more of those who have hourly and precarious employment are given the opportunity to benefit from the financial security provided by unemployment insurance. We will enable more freelance workers and self-employed workers to rest their business and thus be able to benefit from unemployment insurance. In addition, we remove the withdrawal in six days in unemployment insurance, which is also very important for many people in the Swedish labour market. This is about thousands of dollars more in compensation in the first month. This is an important measure, not least for those groups with small margins. Overall, it is a strong package that is about ensuring the financial security of people. It is also a question of providing resources to the Public Employment Service, both as an administrative grant and for measures. We need to focus right now. I share Ciczie Weidbys's ambitions to create a labour market and a working life where more and more people can feel safe. We will have safe jobs in Sweden. We shall have safe, developing and sustainable jobs in the Swedish labour market.
i-71396076af9b8d80-34	Madam President, I would like It is amazing to see the Social Democrats making so many good proposals in these times. There is much of this policy that the Left Party always pursues and always wants. I hope that we can continue to create good security systems for everyone in our society. Madam President, I would like I just want to sum this up somehow. In the autumn, I hope that the Minister will continue the discussion and take a stand. I also hope that we will then have the common starting point and analysis that precarious employment affects not only the employees and the workplace, but also the employer, who will have increased costs if, for example, there is too much staff turnover and sick leave. It is also important purely socio-economic, not only for the individual but for the whole of society, with consumption and with the possibility of creating one's own life and finding a place to live or whatever it may be. After all, society as a whole is losing out on a polarised labour market, which will be a consequence if we are to have far too much flexibility with staff that is easy to get rid of and so on. There will be some time after Corona, I hope, and then we need more secure jobs. Politics has created the regulatory framework we have today, and now I think it is time for us to change the regulatory framework forever so that we always have a safe and good labour market.
i-71396076af9b8d80-37	Madam President, I would like Everyone should have the right to a safe, developing and sustainable working life, and everyone should be able to have a job to support themselves on and the freedom this also gives. We should have this not only for everyone but generally, in a labour market that is equal and in a society that is more equal.
