i-HyBfhTPhUrtvvmKPPSuNyh	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister! Honourable Members of this House and around Sweden! Honored listeners throughout our country! The early summer greenery around the Parliament House is stunningly beautiful. But this is no ordinary presummer day. The flags at the Parliament building were hauled a few minutes ago to half a pole. The Parliament has grief. Sweden has sorrow. Today, the spring parliamentary work was supposed to be rounded off. Although the official summer closure will take place later today, the Riksdag will also meet for the remainder of June and may, if necessary, be convened later in the summer. The reason, of course, is the ongoing Corona crisis, a crisis that is in no way over. Every day new cases of illness are confirmed, each day further lives out prematurely. In spite of the fact that more people will be affected in the weeks and months ahead, I would like today to gather the House of Parliament for a memorial service for the victims of the coronapandemy. It is important that we finish the spring parliamentary work by stopping for a while and remembering – remembering everything we have lost and everyone we have lost during a spring like no one else. In Parliament this spring has been a time of adaptation and of work. Adapting to a new reality, to new forms of work. tackling the crisis and its effects; The pace has been high, the actions many. Also in society, this spring for many has meant adaptation and work at a high pace. You, as I am, of course, thinking of health workers, who have made heroic efforts to save lives and who continue to fight for everyone's sake – nurses, nurses, doctors, ambulance staff, health professionals who moved in and many others. Other occupational groups have also drawn a heavy load and continued to go to their workplaces, despite concerns about their own health. We are thinking of employees in care for the elderly and home care, preschool, school and public transport. We are thinking of police and rescue services, employees in grocery stores and many more. Still others have been able to follow the recommendation to work from home and strive to carry out their normal tasks but in completely new forms. The efforts of people and companies who voluntarily made their abilities available have also been substantial. Overall, the Swedish people have shown great flexibility. So many valuable tasks have been accomplished, even though conditions changed dramatically in a few days. We humans have an outstanding ability to adapt and struggle, even under difficult conditions. But when we work intensively, we rarely take time to stop, to reflect, to feel. Therefore, it is often difficult, in the midst of a dramatic event, to fully realize the extent of what is happening. We are now in a time that will go down in history. There will be one before the pandemic and one after. There are many reasons. The human losses – more than 400 000 died in the world, almost 5 000 in Sweden, more than 7 million recorded cases in the world, more than 50 000 in Sweden. The suffering, the anxiety, the grief. The financial losses – companies that are going under, life's work that is in decline, jobs that are disappearing, unemployment that is rising and poverty that is spreading in many countries in the wake of the pandemic. Added to this is the impact of the crisis on international exchanges and cooperation. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs advises against all unnecessary journeys to all countries of the world. Added to this is the realization of the unpredictability of life and the vulnerability of all of us. A virus, which almost no one had heard of at the beginning of the year, put our whole world on hold for a few weeks. The experience of what is now happening is both common and individual. It is common because on one level it is shared by all of us. No one can fail to be affected. At the same time, it is individual, since each person's experience is unique. No one's corona everyday is identical to anyone else's. In the same way, it is with grief — the grief of everything we have lost and all we have lost. It is common, for it is with us all throughout our society, but it is also individual, personal. I cannot share your sorrow; it is indivisible, whole. To quote Bodil Malmsten's poem, Sorg. The memory of what we are experiencing now will live on for generations and become a point of reference in our lives, in everyone's lives. On the common plane we remember the spring when the world was shut down, when it became empty in our cities, when the offices were emptied and the hospitals filled. On a personal level, it is the spring when Mom became unemployed, when no one was allowed to visit Grandma, when Grandpa fought for his life in a ventilator, when a loved relative passed away. With all our human flexibility and creativity, we have struggled to limit the adverse effects of the pandemic. Save lives, cure the sick, save jobs, save businesses, restore security. We will continue to do so. But the fast pace, the flexibility, the fast-paced life – it doesn't cover everyone. For some it has stopped. They can't work from home because they don't have a job anymore. They cannot adapt their forms of work because their companies have gone bankrupt. They can't take a little extra, because they're in a ventilator in a hospital. And for some, it's over. They've lost the fight against covid-19. This particular moment is for all of them. Those who have lost their job, their health, their lives. But also for those who remained when a loved one's life ended. Before continuing our fight against the pandemic, we are now stopping together to see and acknowledge their suffering, their victims. We remember everything we've lost and everyone we've lost. And we say to all those who are now grieving and suffering: You are not alone. Bodil Malmsten's poem has a continuation:.I am the spared part of you; I just want to say that we are here. ..................................................... Ladies and gentlemen! Right now, Sweden is in many ways the most beautiful. With all this beauty around us, the contrast becomes almost painfully brutal, as we read video diaries and other stories from healthcare professionals in hospitals around the country and get an insight into their everyday lives in the time of the new Corona virus. Something that really grabbed me was the doctor who told me about her feelings when she asked patients to call their relatives just before the respirator should be connected: You know that this can be the last time they talk. Have they said everything they want? Are there any unfinished business left? Perhaps we can still find some comfort in the beauty of nature. No pandemic in the world can take away our bright summer nights. The poet Gabriel Jönsson has captured the contrast between the beauty of nature and the fragility of human life in his poem Majlövet: Another spring and the fine leaves of the book come back to life. You'll see it before your days run out.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-20	If you press your hand's knuckles against your eyelids – all the newly scalloped forests, however, you can see. A thousand green sparks sparkle behind your pupil, because in this hour the may leaf becomes. Away have your spring gone, the years fall down, but now you have been again, where a miracle takes place. We know that thousands of people in our country experienced the leaf cracking during the last time this spring. Their days ended. Some of them were known to a wider public: a popular host, a respected lawyer, a long - standing radio worker. Thanks to the media, we have also got names and faces of many more. Three-child mother Camilla, 46 years old, bus driver Åke, 73, mountain climber Jack, 84, nurse Marielle, 39, Hilva and Hanna who lived together for 73 years and died on the same day. The stories of their lives and the lives of many others remind us of the extent of the loss our society has suffered because they are no longer among us. But we are also reminded that no man has ever lived in vain. There is purpose and value in each individual life. Let us carry that thought with us as we honour the memory of the nearly 5 000 Swedes who have lost their lives in the footsteps of the coronapndemin. We should honor them not because they were victims of a pandemic but because they were human beings. We should not see them in front of us as patients in hospital beds, but as people, once filled with life, filled with joy, filled with hope. We should not remember them because they died, but because they were alive. Let us now remember everything we have lost and all we have lost and honour the memory of those we have lost in a minute's silence. Those assembled in the Chamber honored the victims of the coronapandem with a minute's silence.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-27	Mr President, I would like to In essence, it is of course gratifying that this proposal came and has been dealt with by the Swedish Parliament. Of course, I would have liked the system of conversion aid, as the government calls it, to have already been in place, but the government has delayed and delayed the process as much as possible. This is unfortunate, because it will lead to more business failures and higher unemployment and thus also to higher expenditure on unemployment insurance later on. I think the explanation for this slow and slow thing is a combination of two things. The government, led by the Social Democrats, simply does not have a basic understanding of the entrepreneurs or of what it means to be an entrepreneur. Entrepreneurs do not normally become Social Democrats or vice versa, for that matter, for quite obvious reasons. That's one thing. The second is that there is a compact resistance built into their ideological DNA against helping and supporting private business in various ways. The trend has been rather the opposite: to overturn, not to help. The combination of these two parameters is the explanation of the government's slowness and slowness. The second, Mr President, to which I reacted is the very concept of the proposed measure: conversion aid. What exactly is that supposed to say? Companies and industry organisations that I've talked to don't really understand what that means. What are they going to do about it? Should not a small haulage company, for example, be involved in transport even after the Corona crisis? Are they going to change and start doing something completely different? If so, what? What's a restaurant or a clothing store gonna do? What does the government mean? I'm not the only one who asked that question. But, Mr President, in addition to the fact that it has taken a very long time to get this system in place – it is not yet in place – it is therefore proposed to apply to only two months, March and April. The economic crisis did not end in April, by all reasonable standards. May also looked rather bleak, and now, in June, it is not exactly bursting with activity in the economy. Perhaps we are beginning to see the light in the tunnel; hopefully it is. If it's not the beginning of the end, it's at least the end of the beginning. However, all the seasonal activities, which have the most activity and most turnover during the summer months and perhaps no turnover at all during March, for example, are not very helped by this package. Stugbyar, camping, guest harbours and whatever it is – the tourism industry in general – will probably have a very difficult summer ahead of them all anyway. Many of the traders in that industry would probably have been a little less concerned if the aid had been extended at least a little bit into the summer. Mr President, I would like to In any case, I can note that it is gratifying that the Government has corrected in its proposal, compared with the original proposal, a rather large-scale misappropriation of what is known as intra-group contributions. I, the Swedish Democrats and, I believe, the entire Committee on Finance – at least I have not heard anything else – share the government's view that it cannot receive public support while distributing profits to its shareholders. And if you are a subsidiary of a group and distribute profits to your parent company, you are therefore disqualified for the conversion aid. So, father, so good. However, if a subsidiary has decided to cancel the dividend because we have sent the political signal and made a number of political decisions, while the parent company decides on the dividend, the subsidiary has no discretion over that decision. In a current case Scania, a Swedish company, has decided to cancel its dividend, but Traton, their foreign parent company, wants to make a dividend. In the original Government proposal, Swedish Scania would be penalised and disqualified from the possibility of participating in the aid on the basis of a decision taken by their foreign parent companies which, for obvious reasons, is completely outside their control and influence. This has therefore been corrected in the final proposal, which we are discussing and voting on later today, which is to be welcomed. The reason why I still want to raise this is that I want to point out the risk of running a purely populist line instead of focusing on what should be the purpose of this whole exercise: to save Swedish jobs and Swedish companies. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-37	Mr President, I would like to We will do everything we can to take Sweden together through this crisis. That goes without saying to us. The Left Party has been involved in designing several of the actions carried out under the current c oropandemia. This has often been both necessary and important. But just as obviously it should be that we share the bill and the profits in a different way from what is being done today. Getting through this together cannot mean that some get to take the bangs while others slide past reasonably unmoved. Most of the government efforts need to go to taxi drivers, nurses and preschool staff. That is not the case at the moment. It is not thanks to us politicians that welfare works. It's because of the staff who work there. It is those capital owners who for many years, not only now, have received generous financial contributions in the form of tax reductions and deductions that should now step up and contribute. If they do, they will of course receive both praise and applause, because then we can really invest in health care and staff conditions. I will choose to see the Center's demands for precarious employment and the Liberals' inexhaustible demand for tax cuts for storm-rich people as a standing April joke. It is not possible to deal with this differently in the light of the current crisis. The spread of infection in the care of the elderly, a burnt-out well-being and an exhausted staff – you can lose your appetite for less. But, Mr President, I am choosing joy and hope that the token will fall down on the January parties during the summer holidays. If we are to get out of this crisis together, we must spend more money on health care and less on shareholders. Anyone can really understand that. For SMEs, targeted efforts are needed, but that is not what is proposed. The conversion aid proposed today can provide as much as 150 million each to the largest companies, which may also have distributed huge sums of money in the previous year. The conditions are, to say the least, generous. The Left Party has been pushing and getting through many important elements in the committee before, and we have taken the initiative to stop the distribution of shares for those who use lay-off support, so that this cannot be achieved at the same time. And we have pressed for more money for municipalities and regions. However, we want a more balanced response to the whole of the economic crisis. Companies have received large and extensive support at the same time as health care staff and the Public Employment Service are on their knees. Many people are in need of support to make everyday life go hand in hand. Mr President, I would like to Let us begin by stating that the Left Party supports most of the Government's proposals to strengthen the financial situation of companies, including liquidity support, lay-off aid and rental subsidies. However, we believe that the conversion aid, as it stands, involves a disproportionate transfer of taxpayers' money to the capital owners. Instead, we want more balanced and accurate support, including in the form of interest-free loans for small and medium-sized enterprises. We believe that the government's proposal for a ceiling of SEK 150 million is unreasonably high. Instead, the maximum amount should be set at $10 million. The companies receiving aid shall be taxed in Sweden and shall have no links to tax havens. The main owners of the companies must be Swedish. Undertakings receiving support shall not make decisions on new large payments to management in the form of bonuses or similar. Since there is a high risk of extensive fraud and fraud, we believe that the Swedish Tax Agency should be able to apply for proof assurance already in connection with the examination of an application for conversion aid. Mr President, I would like to The Left also wants to reject SURE, the EU's programme against unemployment. In practice, the current structure means that the non-influenced taxpayers of different countries will be guarantors of borrowing on the private financial market. Mr President, I would like to Why is there always money for those who already have, for those with power and influence? When it comes to ordinary people, it doesn't seem as easy. Our emergency efforts must also include the cleaner Maria, who injured her back when she threw heavy garbage bags a few years ago. Since the employer refused to give her rehabilitation, she was instead insured and, like many others, began to be sent between Arbetsförmedlingen and Försäkringskassan. I am also thinking of ME-sick Malin, who is bedbound 20 hours a day but still had his sickness allowance withdrawn, and of car mechanic Thomas, who, despite cancer, rheumatism and a serious form of Crohn's disease, did not receive his sickness benefit. Money saved by refusing protection for Maria, Malin, Thomas and the others represents a fraction of what can be spent on large companies and shareholders in a few weeks. Aren't people who get severe illnesses or who get hurt at work just as important? It is not coffee money that we are now channeling out to businesses in the crisis. The conversion aid that will be paid to companies to cover fixed costs is, for example, greater than the child benefit to all children in the country for one year, and that is much more than what the state spends on all poor pensioners in the form of guarantee pensions and housing allowances for one year. That this is unreasonable can well be understood by almost everyone. Mr President, I would like to With what the Left Party is proposing, it would be a support with a focus on saving jobs, and ordinary people's conditions would be in focus. With that, I would like to endorse our reservation.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-51	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Christian Democrats' reservation, which is No 3. Mr President, I would like to We stand here in Parliament towards the end of a semester that has not been any other like. We have worked frantically to do what we can, together with many others in Swedish society, to counteract the harmful effects of the terrible disease that has taken life, which has damaged health and which has seriously damaged our economy. Today we have a new supplementary amending budget at Parliament's table to deal with. We can see that it contains several things that would probably not have come into place without the parliament. There is a turnover support for the companies that came into place only when the pressure from the Riksdag became very great on the government to act. There are additional resources for municipalities and regions to avoid the need to alert staff in the midst of the crisis. It is extremely important that these resources are now put in place, because without them we could have had a worse course of crisis. We could have lost faith in welfare. And we could have had an even worse situation for the health and care staff. The situation is already very strained, and more is needed. But this contribution of 6 extra billion will be able to make a big difference in the activities that have been hit hard by the pandemic. But, Mr President, we know that the economic crisis and the problems we face in terms of jobs and businesses are also at risk of bringing serious health consequences. The health effects of the financial crisis are still alive – we see this in increased cases of disease and in an increased exclusion that has led to disease, suffering and, in many cases, premature death. So it also matters what we do to save jobs and businesses in this crisis. We know that disease, loneliness, social problems and more exclusion follow in the wake of unemployment. It is in danger of having harmful effects deep in our society. It is therefore important that we have come up with a wide range of crisis support for Swedish jobs and companies. I cannot help noticing that there is now a disagreement on the question: Is it reasonable to go forward with a turnover subsidy to save jobs and businesses, to save jobs that people love and to save an entrepreneurship that means a great deal to Sweden? We Christian Democrats are constantly calling for more resources – we are not doing it constantly, but when it is needed, and it happens to be constantly – for health care and care. But we also understand that resources are being created in the business world. Right now, a rescue mission is needed for jobs and companies in Sweden, now that we are in this exceptional situation that no one has been able to prepare for with reasonable buffers and when turnover falls by perhaps 70, 80 or 90 percent. These efforts will then be needed. I note that the Left opposes them and says that we should not have it, that it is support for businesses and that we should have support for people instead. But it's connected. Without the aid, we will have far more bankruptcies and the unemployed, and this in turn leads to fewer resources for welfare and fewer opportunities to help those at risk. Then we will make demands in connection with the subsidies. It is reasonable not to receive large amounts of public support while at the same time making large dividends to their shareholders, for example. There are clear requirements built into the support. It is good that it comes into place, Mr President, but we Christian Democrats think that we should have done as Denmark and Norway and had it for a slightly longer period of time. Now only March and April are covered. The aid has, as it were, already expired, and what remains now are applications and payments of the aid. It would be reasonable and good if there were a message from the government that we would extend it by at least a month. We believe that the crisis is still deep in many companies. It is those with a high turnover rate who benefit from the aid. It is therefore a solid aid that could be extended and thus save further jobs and businesses from bankruptcy. Only one more month would make a huge difference, and this is a message that we would like to see from the government. Several subsidies now expire. The increased part of the lay-off aid expires this summer. The employer's contribution allowance expires. This support expires. There is little information about what will follow. This risks creating uncertainty among companies about what they have to relate to and what it will be like when the middle of summer comes. I think it would be good to get further information, and an extension of the conversion aid would, I think, be a good one. Mr President, I would like to Yesterday, the Christian Democrats and the Left Party wanted the Committee on Finance to take an initiative on special crisis support for civil society, which is making fantastic efforts in the crisis and which is holding out a hand to those who are vulnerable, even when they are bleeding financially. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy rejected this. I note that the majority of the Committee on Finance is today also saying no to the Christian Democrats' proposal to change the existing conversion aid, which is now in place, and to adapt it better to civil society organisations so that they have the opportunity to take part in it, by adjusting the time period to suit their activities and by ensuring that they can seek together in a group-like structure, because many do not reach the limit of the amount. When large parts of the business are based on voluntary engagement, it is more difficult to reach the required thresholds. It should also be given a concept of turnover that includes all the revenues of civil society, not only revenues from sales, for example, but also other types of revenues, such as gifts and other things. 50% of CSOs are concerned about their survival. 90% of them do not think that public support works. There's too little work done here. The support that exists has come late and has not been adapted for civil society. Here the government must rethink, do more and ensure that civil society organisations and Associations can also feel confident and secure in the crisis, so that they can continue their important work for the health of children and young people, for community and to reach out to the one who is alone and the one who is in need. I regret that the Christian Democrats' proposals are now being rejected. Mr President, I would like to We note one good thing in the report by the Committee on Finance, and that is that a united committee now says that the government must do more for the individual traders, who have fallen slightly between the chairs of the various support systems that exist. This is good, for many of them are affected when, for example, major events are not allowed. It is the freelance musician, the sound technician and others who work with their skills and expertise but who do not have large fixed costs and who do not run their business in a limited company form and therefore cannot get part of the lay-off support. It is good that a demand is now being made for the government to return with support also to this group of entrepreneurs, who are important to Sweden and who are making great efforts, not least for Swedish cultural life. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to thank the members and colleagues of the Committee on Finance for their good cooperation during the spring. We've seen more than usual, and that's exactly how it's supposed to be in this kind of crisis. No evil that has no good in that regard. We must not take time off now, but we must continue to focus on what is important for Sweden – the additional measures that can and should come into place – and do exactly everything we can to ensure that Sweden goes as strongly as possible through this crisis. I would like to take this opportunity to wish Mr President, everyone in the hardworking office of the Committee on Finance and my colleagues a happy summer.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-69	Mr President, I would like to It's been a tumultuous spring. The spread of the Corona virus is primarily a health crisis in which the lives and health of many have been severely affected. We were reminded of this very recently in this House at the memorial service. At the same time, society has shown itself at its best in many areas. Healthcare personnel have pulled a heavy load and worked both long and long days and night passes to care for the sick. Others have gone to work, despite the concerns that this may cause, worked at home or followed the government's advice and recommendations not to meet loved ones. And the Riksdag and the Government have acted strongly and have shown that we can cooperate and take responsibility for Sweden in a difficult time. When we are debating today no less than the eighth supplementary amending budget, we have made historic efforts with over SEK 250 billion in direct costs for the state and, in addition, issued large guarantees and credits. In order to prevent the spread of infection, we are today deciding on increased funding for county administrative boards and the Public Health Agency to assist the regions with the development of test capacity and increase the possibilities for contamination detection. We also increase the funding for the National Board of Health and Welfare so that they can assist in the coordination of regional health and medical resources during the critical summer months. And not least, we decide on an additional 6 billion in general contributions to welfare in order to create the conditions for the country's regions and municipalities to maintain important social functions such as health care, school and care for the rest of the year as well. Mr President, I would like to As has been said many times, the Corona crisis has hit the world's and Sweden's economy hard. Although we see some flashes of light and the forecasts look slightly better than before – it came from the Institute of Economic Development just a few minutes ago – the economic situation in the future is as serious as it is difficult to assess. Many viable companies have seen their revenues fold and customers disappear from one day to another. That is why, this spring, we have acted quickly, amassed and forcefully to save jobs and help companies overcome their problems, overwinter the crisis and retain their workforce and production capacity in the future. We already have in place a new system for short-term work or short-term lay-off, which is estimated to cover over 1.3 million Swedes during the year. At the moment of speaking, about half a million short-term layoffs are made. We have reduced employers' contributions, we have introduced rental aid for certain sectors that are particularly affected and we have made it possible for companies to strengthen their liquid position by being able to recover already paid tax and postpone tax payments that would otherwise have been made. Today we are deciding on another very strong support, namely a cash contribution to fundamentally viable companies, called conversion aid. The aid covers both natural and legal persons. It is aid in which the State compensates those companies that have had a large fall in their turnover – at least 30% – due to the Corona crisis. Through this contribution to the fixed costs that businesses have not been able to escape in this crisis, we are enabling survival and conversion. It is a great, costly and very important measure to support the economy and to save both businesses and jobs in our country. At the same time, of course, we should use taxpayers' money in the best possible and wisest way. The support that we are now launching, like others, should go to crisis-saving companies to save jobs and not to cheat and fraud. We have previously made it easier for the Swedish Agency for Growth to check that the support for short-term work is being used correctly. At present, 2,000 applications are being investigated, where suspected cheating may be involved, and nearly 400 cases have been reported to the police. Now we are continuing to work against those who want to spend their money on taxpayers by strengthening the Tax Agency so that their law enforcement department has extensive opportunities to investigate and check that the subsidies are not misused. The state's contribution will go to companies in real crisis. You are not in crisis if you also think you can distribute money to the shareholders. Mr President, I would like to During this period, it is not only the Swedish economy that has been hit hard. We have seen the world economy pause during the spring. Of course, it also affects us in other parts of the world. Sweden is a small and export-dependent country. Approximately 1 1⁄2 million Swedes work in export companies or in companies that depend on exports. And about 70% of our exports depend on how it works in the European Union. As a small country, we are highly dependent on the functioning of the European Union. And today we are going to decide on state guarantees to the EU for loans to Member States under the SURE programme. In addition, we shall decide on state guarantees to the European Investment Bank. It enables EU countries with financial difficulties to borrow on better terms. It is a decision that benefits both the European market and the Swedish economy, Swedish jobs and Swedish welfare. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has had a lot of room for manoeuvre during this crisis thanks to the fact that we have saved the barns for good years. The contributions that we are now supporting our business community with, the support that we are targeting the municipalities' important activities and the resources that we use to secure the economy for those who have lost their jobs and give them an opportunity to come back to a new one, are there because we have strong public finances. But the resources are not infinite. We do not know when the crisis will be over. That is why we must both act vigorously here and now and be prepared for the crisis to be prolonged and longer and for new measures to be taken. At the same time, we need to use taxpayers' money carefully so that we have resources left once the crisis is over, because it will be one day. Then we will revitalise Sweden and the Swedish economy again. I support the committee's proposal.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-85	Mr President, I would like to I thank the President for the dignified performance of the memorial ceremony earlier today in the Swedish Parliament for the victims of the coronapandemy. I hope that many had the opportunity to hear the comforting and hopeful words that the President had for all of us. Let us remember that we are still in the midst of the crisis caused by covid-19. It is sometimes easy to believe that the crisis is over and that everything is as usual when the sun shines and the joy for a moment fills us and we forget what it looks like. I've talked to wise people who say: Can't we just go back, let everything go back to normal and forget what's happening here and now? Then we must also remember all those who actually work and toil in health care and in care and who have a completely different everyday life. They may see a little bit of the beautiful weather on their way to work, where they dress in protective equipment, receive patients, relieve and cure severely ill people. They work day in and day out, week out and week in, month out and month in with far too long shifts. They've been working hard this spring. Not everything is as usual, and not everything will be as usual just because we want it to be just as usual. We are still in the midst of the crisis. We will get through this crisis together. Everybody's got to wear their part. Anyone who works in healthcare is expected to do difficult and hard work. Whoever drives the bus will make sure that the nurse also comes to work. Whoever works at the store will make sure the deal is open. The truck driver will make sure the food comes to the store. But that also means that those who own large companies on the stock exchange cannot pick out profits, for this crisis we shall all bear together. Therefore, it is not possible to both have a company that is going so well that you can distribute profits and at the same time go so bad that you distribute money to your shareholders. It just doesn't make sense. We are carrying this crisis together, Mr President. We Moderates promised from the outset that we would do everything we can to ensure that Sweden gets through the crisis in the best possible way. We have come up with proposals to reduce the spread of infection. We have produced proposals and pushed for more money for healthcare and care. We have developed proposals to save Swedish jobs and Swedish companies. On April 7, the Moderates presented a proposal for sales support to save jobs and businesses. On April 30, the government agreed. Two months later, it is for decisions in this House today. However, the government has rebaptized it, so there may be some confusion. Now it is called conversion aid, and very few know why. But the content is very good, Mr President. It is a solid reform, and it ensures that the companies most affected are also reached by this money. Without the Moderates, many of these crisis packages would never have arrived. The Moderates have developed and pushed for many of these crisis packages to become a reality. It's good that the government has agreed to them. Sometimes they have done so because they have discovered that they have a majority in this Parliament against them and have therefore taken it to heart. On March 18, the Moderates presented a proposal for a business case with government interest-rate guarantees. On 25 March, the government adapted to this. On 23 March, the Moderates presented a proposal on state aid for the rental costs of companies. On 25 March, the government adapted to this. On 23 March, the Moderates presented a proposal for the abolition of employers' contributions. On March 25, the government agreed. On 23 March, the Moderates presented a proposal to reduce interest on tax credits. On 14 April, the government agreed to at least halve it. On April 7, the Moderates presented a proposal for full-time lay-off. On 14 April, the government adapted to this. On 26 May, the Moderates presented a proposal of SEK 100 million in state aid to regional airports. On 14 June, the government adapted to this. We save jobs and companies for people to have livelihoods and welfare resources as well as for the Swedish economy to be restarted. But let us also remember that Sweden entered this crisis with the lowest per capita growth throughout the European Union and with major unemployment problems compared to the other countries of Europe, despite a global boom that has lasted for many years. Without many of these crisis support, which I have now listed and which this Parliament has decided on, a great many more jobs had been lost than so far. It is good that we have got so much in place during this short time. Mr President, I would like to This debate is also largely about the single mother of three children from Klabböle outside Umeå in Västerbotten. Her name is Elin Örebrand and has been a musician and self-employed for 20 years. It is good if we sometimes remind ourselves that it is not just figures and statistics or reforms and details that we are doing in this House. It is probably so important, but let us never forget the people for whom we are debating these different parts. It's about people. It's about dreams. It's about food on the table. It's about a roof over your head. It is about being able to afford to buy football shoes this summer too. Elin is ambitious, and she works hard. She's been supporting herself since she was very young. She has been granted housing allowance, and that is the only thing that is not a loan that has been offered to her during this crisis and 400 000 self-employed people who have not started a limited company. She has been offered housing allowance, and she wrote to me that she found it difficult. She asked: ‘ Should I really accept it? I've never lived on grants my whole life, am I really going to have to do it now? I say to Elin and to everyone else: it is not you who caused this crisis. It's a pandemic. It is not you who have made bad decisions that make you today in financial distress. These are political decisions to reduce the spread of infection. Let's remember that! There are many people out there who have struggled, made a living and stood on their own and find this difficult. The aid has so far not reached all the way through. We Moderates said early on that we must ensure that emergency aid is designed in such a way that it reaches as many as possible, but it has not yet been done. In addition, Mr President, it is in the way that many men start public limited companies and many women start individual companies. There are many times the same types of activity. You pay taxes, you support yourself and you contribute to society. Those with limited liability companies have benefited from emergency aid, but they do not have private companies. We Moderates want to correct that. That is why we tabled proposals in the Committee on Finance which will become a reality with the proposal in this report. The government will now be able to return promptly with proposals on how crisis support will reach even those who have chosen an individual firm as a company form. It is unreasonable to have it otherwise, Mr President. What we do in Parliament's Finance Committee and the decisions we make in Parliament's Chamber affect a great many people. I am pleased that I can say to both Elin at home in Klabböle outside Umeå and to all the other 400 000 individual entrepreneurs who have not yet been reached by the crisis support: we have seen you, we have heard you and we are now going to do what we can to ensure that you too will benefit from the support we have developed. With that, Mr President, I support the proposal in the report. Like previous colleagues, I would also like to take the opportunity to wish a happy midsummer to my colleagues in the Committee on Finance, to our fantastic officials in the Committee on Finance and also, Mr President, to all those officials who are working and working to ensure that Parliament works and can take decisions so that we get the support in place for those who most need it. Thank you very much. I hope that you will have a rather restful midsummer, and then we will go back here on Sunday and continue working on Monday again – to make sure that we get through this crisis together.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-102	Mr President, I would like to We are here to debate the eighth extraordinary amending budget of the spring, and shortly after midsummer comes number nine. This additional amending budget number eight is characterised in many ways by what this spring has been marked by. The work in parliament, government and society at large has been about securing central social functions and saving Swedish jobs and companies. With the measures now being put in place, we are doing just that: we are taking further steps to strengthen the economy of municipalities and regions. Those in the front line when it comes to defending Swedish welfare should feel that you have the resources that need to be available for you to be able to do your job in the best way. Therefore, in a number of steps we have strengthened resources for municipalities and regions, and we are now continuing with another SEK 6 billion. It is easy to realise that for the remainder of the year further information will be needed, not only if needs arise during this year but also for the longer term planning conditions for our municipalities and regions. These should maintain health care, care, school and other central social and welfare functions – coronapandemia or not. Some things should always work in Sweden. We can also see that, while there are small and fragile, there are signs that things may be getting better. As mentioned earlier, we received today, half an hour ago, a new forecast from the Konjunkturinstitutet. It gives a very dark picture, but it is not quite as dark as the previous forecast. Around the world, however, there are also small but clear signs that there may be another wave – that the virus will come back when countries and regions ease restrictions and the like. That is, of course, very worrying. The only reasonable conclusion to draw in the light of this, that on the one hand we see a lightening and, on the other hand, a cloud of concern, is that we need to be careful, keep following events very closely and be prepared to act very quickly if necessary. Today, we are also putting in place close to 6 billion to expand the testing and tracking work. There are many of us who expect that work to be the top priority. We need to develop the Swedish response when it comes to countering and following the spread of the corona infection in Sweden. It has never been a matter of money; this has been part of the healthcare promise that was made very early in the Corona process. Regions, municipalities and others should know that the state takes the bill for the steps that must be taken to meet the corona infection. It's as simple as that. Now that we are making the very big effort that is part of this extra amending budget, it becomes even clearer that the resources are in place. Most of the budget we are going to decide on today, and indeed most of it in terms of aid to businesses, concerns the turnover-based aid that is now becoming a reality. All companies, regardless of their form of business, can apply for and receive compensation for part of their fixed costs during the months of March and April. It will be possible to start looking for this very soon, and the payment will also be made as soon as possible. This is about supporting and that the state is involved in taking some of the fixed costs that remained in a situation during the early part of the Corona process where the shops largely disappeared almost overnight. It is also clear that we will have to continue to follow developments in the Swedish business sector and in the Swedish jobs and companies. Even now, this speaker's seat has called for extension, reinforcement and so on. There is no reason to rule out that such steps will be taken in the future, but I think it is wise to wait for further facts in terms of how the tourism industry will actually go during the Swedish summer. Is it the case that the image of early positive signs that we see in the economy will be strengthened? Can we move on to the next stage in the fight against Corona and make more forward-looking efforts – to bring forward investment, stimulate private investment in business and so on? This must be followed very closely, and it is probably just to say that there will be no vacation this year. At least there will be no vacation in the way you usually have vacations. Personally, I will walk around the farm, enjoy the sun and so on, but I will also be in constant contact with all the entrepreneurs, organizations and social interests – all the wise people we have talked to this spring – to see if there needs to be more. That is why, of course, the readiness to go in and solve problems when they arise will be very high with Parliament, the Government, the Finance Committee and this House. That preparedness must continue, and that preparedness will remain in place as long as circumstances so require. As yet, we are not looking further away at what has been the more acute corona crisis. Today we are taking a number of important steps. It is about maintaining central social functions. It is also a very big step to support the Swedish business community through the sales-based support, where the price tag will exceed SEK 30 billion. It is expensive, but it is well-invested money because it saves and secures Swedish jobs and companies. Mr President, I would like to Happy summer!
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-112	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! This budget is the eighth supplementary amending budget to be dealt with by Parliament in connection with the coronapendem. It is quite typical of this crisis. It contains investments in welfare, and it also contains huge investments in Sweden's entrepreneurs. It does so because this is connected – if companies can hire and if companies can avoid bankruptcy, we can also ensure that there is money for welfare. Mr President, I would like to During this spring, I have noted that there are politicians who question whether entrepreneurs are taxpayers. We have heard politicians who paint a picture of the interests of taxpayers and entrepreneurs. What kind of world do you really live in? Entrepreneurs are also taxpayers. Entrepreneurs are also part of our society. They have paid a great deal of tax all these years and, of course, have the right to get back some of what they have paid in order to save their business. Mr President, I would like to We have also heard politicians who say and think that entrepreneurs should certainly have a little better margins to be able to face this kind of pandemic – as if Corona did not come as a flash from the clear sky! Before March 10 or 12, when the government observed general contamination, many entrepreneurs had plenty of work and much work to do. The shops rolled on just like usual. As a flash from the clear sky came Corona, and everything changed and became different. Entrepreneurs should have margins to handle a flash from the clear sky – fascinating. In the debates that have been, and as late as today, I have also heard that there is a difference between ordinary people and entrepreneurs – that there are interests of ordinary people and interests of entrepreneurs. Most entrepreneurs I meet at home in Lund are common people. They're my neighbors. They're the ones I buy buns at on Saturday morning. They're the ones I buy clothes from. They're the ones my friends and acquaintances work for. Entrepreneurs are also ordinary people, aren't they? Mr President, I would like to That is why what is on the table of this House today is so important. This is an investment of over 30 billion SEK in Sweden's entrepreneurs to secure the jobs. It is about the Swedish trade. It's about what our cities should look like – should our cities be ghost cities in the future, or do we also want to have the opportunity in the future to shop and buy things in our cities? It is also a matter of ensuring that those who had full order books in March but who have since lost 40, 50, 60, 70 or 80 per cent of their turnover in just a month should be able to get support and help to save the company and save jobs. Mr President, I would like to This is a very special crisis. Normal economic crises – what we are used to – usually start in the financial sector, in the real estate sector or in some industrial crisis. Sometimes it is that entrepreneurs have taken too much risk or that the financial markets have acted in a non-responsible way. But this crisis is not about it; this crisis is not about people acting irresponsibly. This is about a health crisis that becomes an economic crisis as a result of the political decisions we make about people not being able to live a normal life. Mr President, I would like to The Liberals have in the talks and negotiations we have conducted with the government pushed very clearly to ensure that they save jobs and save Swedish companies. It has been about reducing employers' contributions and removing sick pay. It is also about what we are dealing with today, i.e. the turnover support that is directed to Swedish entrepreneurs and that is about seeing the connection that without entrepreneurs Sweden stays. Without entrepreneurs, we have no strong welfare, and without these support, Sweden is significantly weaker out of this crisis. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to thank the parties in the Swedish Parliament and the President for the work of the spring. This has happened in a very good spirit; we have worked very well together to ensure that Sweden will come out of this crisis in the very best way. We have put down the ideological blinders to do what is best for Sweden. This is, I think, when Swedish politics appears from its very best side. I support the committee's proposal.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-122	Mr President, I would like to I was very inspired to hear Mats Persson be so committed when it comes to support for companies, especially those around Lund, it seems that. I and the Left Party can certainly agree on support for businesses. We have made many accurate investments and pushed many accurate demands. I myself do not come from Lund from the beginning, but my father has had a company – a small business – in Sandviken. So I know what it can be like for smaller companies and that their conditions can be very fragile. I have a question I would like to ask the Liberals and Mats Persson. Mats Persson said that you should not have to save a lot in the barns or have your own risk thinking because there can be a flash from the clear sky. Will Mats Persson and the Liberals show the same commitment when it comes to people who, like lightning from the sky, get a disease and are deprived of their sickness benefit and sickness benefit and who do not qualify in today's system? Can we count on Mats Persson and the Liberals to stand by the fact that the checkout will include more and that it will also be raised, so that you do not have to stand there when a flash from the clear sky hits you and you become unemployed and cannot pay the rent? Will this commitment include more than the largest companies, which Mats Persson and the Liberals have already given a gift in the form of the abolition of the military tax, or will we see that this commitment fades after the holiday?
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-126	Mr President, I would like to I do not have the same ideological view as Ida Gabrielsson's party. I don't go around looking at society like it's made up of conflicting interests. I do not believe in the class struggle as does the Left Party, with its ideological roots. I do not believe that there are workers' interests and entrepreneurs' interests. This is also reflected in how the Liberals have acted in this crisis. What we are debating today is, of course, about support for businesses, but we have also seen to it in this crisis that more people have access to the register. The simple reason for that is that even for workers is a flash from the clear sky. We have made sure that you can get short-term leave, so that you can keep your job even if at the moment you don't have much to do. Those who have lost their job have been able to take part of the unemployment insurance fund more easily so that they do not suffer the current crisis. My party even thinks that unemployment benefit should be compulsory for everyone, just as health insurance covers everyone in society. You cannot choose whether you want to be in health insurance, and it should be the same when it comes to unemployment. Of course, you should be covered by insurance cover regardless of whether you are a member of a trade union or not and whether you are a member of the unemployment fund or not. This shall include all. I'm sorry to disappoint you, Ida Gabrielsson, but I don't have the same ideological starting point as you. I do not see society as a struggle between different interests where there are evil and good and where entrepreneurs are bad and the workers are good. I see it as having a society together, where we have common interests in building prosperity so that we can have a well-being together and where we see the importance of companies for the welfare to work.
i-GuspJ3Eme38NRr4tfVp7tx	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mats Persson, for this course in ideology! What Mats Persson describes as evil entrepreneurs, of course, I want to reject. My dad's really nice. As I said, he comes from Sandviken and not from Lund. I believe, however, that there are just as kind entrepreneurs in Lund. What the Left Party has shown throughout this crisis is that we also understand the need for account to be taken of company conditions. Together with others, we have pushed forward solutions for one-man entrepreneurs and to implement lay-off support. But what we have been extremely careful about is that there cannot be dividends and other things at the same time. That's where we brought you, and that's great. At the same time, the Liberals had already given away a gift in the form of the withdrawal of the military tax, so Volvo's CEO earns a lot more than a small business owner in a place of business such as Sandviken. Everyone is a taxpayer, says Mats Persson. In that case, the person who becomes ill must also be regarded as a taxpayer. Then people who are deprived of their employment must also be regarded as taxpayers. Most people actually pay taxes and have done so. I have to say that Mats Persson's answer is unclear and unsatisfactory to me. I can see it in no other way than that you, Mats Persson, think that some taxpayers, i.e. the biggest companies, should we other taxpayers contribute most, while the others may take less of the emergency aid that should now be presented.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-135	Mr President, I would like to Well, let me get this straight. I hope Ida Gabrielsson didn't misunderstand me on purpose, but I can't imagine that she did. In this crisis, we have seen to it that more people are taking part in the unemployment fund. People who, with the old rules, had not received unemployment benefit but had been thrown out into uncertainty and perhaps received social security benefits are now receiving unemployment benefit through the reform that the Liberals are now taking responsibility for. It is one way of ensuring that people who lose their jobs are given greater security in this crisis. Now I have said it twice and hope that the message has come forward. Is the removal of military taxes about the rich getting more? No, it's about standing up for the principle that it's reasonable that when you work, you can at least keep half of what you earn. The government should not take more than half of what I earn. That's a reasonable principle, I think. Then Ida Gabrielsson said now but also earlier in her speech, which I find interesting, that ordinary people must receive support and that you are therefore against the sales subsidy. You are, of course, actively opposed to the turnover support that we are now going to decide on in the Swedish Parliament. You are against 40 billion in support of Sweden's entrepreneurs. The argument is that it doesn't go to ordinary people. I find it difficult to interpret it in any other way than that you do not think that many of the entrepreneurs that exist in Sweden are ordinary people, but they are. I happened to take some examples from my own town where I live, for it is in the soil I live and move. I could also have used Gävle as an example. For me, entrepreneurs are also taxpayers. For me, entrepreneurs are ordinary people too. And I pay attention to the rhetoric that now exists in Swedish politics, not least from the Swedish left, where it is believed that entrepreneurs are not taxpayers and that entrepreneurs are evil. That's wrong.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-140	Mr President, I would like to The health crisis we are experiencing and the economic crisis as a result are multifaceted. In my four minutes, I intend to focus on a subject that has not come to the fore very clearly, namely European cooperation. I think it has been a sad thing to see this spring that European cooperation has not lived up to the expectations that at least I had of this community. Unfortunately, many countries have turned inwards rather than reaching out to each other. But it is important that we safeguard the Community and solidarity within the European Union. And we now have at Parliament's table two proposals for support aimed at this very point. One proposal concerns an agreement with the European Commission on the possibility of lending to countries in order to enable them to take active measures in the labour market but also to finance health care. The second proposal is an agreement with the European Investment Bank to enable them to lend to SMEs. The committee and the government note that these subsidies are not designed exactly as Sweden would have liked to see. There are risks and shortcomings with the proposals that have been negotiated within the European Union. However, the serious situation in the European Union and in many EU countries still calls for Sweden to join these programmes and to finance them with solidarity. I would like to emphasise that this is extremely important. Despite the shortcomings of EU cooperation, which have unfortunately come to light, and despite the fact that too many Member States are mismanaging their economy and failings to comply with the recommendations of the European Commission to be sufficiently strong in this kind of economic situation, we need to show solidarity within the European Union and to come together for joint funding. One amazing thing in the Swedish debate, I think, is that everyone has taken it for granted that the state should go in and take the cost of healthcare and for testing, as proposed in the bill today. Everyone has thought it self-evident, because that is how a strong welfare society, a state that holds together, acts. It must also be clear now that health care is available in all EU countries, regardless of financial means. For example, everyone in the EU should be entitled to intensive care. This type of instrument is then needed to ensure that it is. Although there are shortcomings and criticisms – the government is working hard to make these subsidies as good as possible – it is important that Sweden is involved in the joint work to keep the EU together also through this crisis. I think this is worth pointing out, as well as the other important measures that my colleagues in the Committee on Finance have so clearly described in this House. With this, I would like to conclude by thanking you for the extremely good cooperation we have had in the Committee on Finance this spring. We have worked hard, and we will continue to work hard to deal with the economic situation in Sweden. I would like to wish my colleagues a pleasant summer and thank the office, which has worked extremely hard, and I would also like to wish Mr President the summer happy.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-151	Mr President, I would like to The purpose of this reply is to ask for the committee's proposal to be approved, because I forgot to do so during my speech. But now that I'm standing here with Karolina Skog, I want to take the opportunity to wish her a happy and restful summer, to the extent that summer will offer something like that. I would like to thank Mrs Karolina, who is a valued colleague. She is always read and drives her questions in a very good way. She is a very contributing reason for the very good cooperation we have across all possible party boundaries in the Committee on Finance.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-152	Mr President, I would like to This is an extremely good example of how we work together in the Committee on Finance, because now I too have the opportunity to ask for approval of the committee's proposals, which I too forgot to do. You focus so easily on the issues. I would like to thank Mr Emil for his excellent cooperation in January and not least in the committee.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-156	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate and discuss a report that touches on many of the most important issues of the state: legal certainty, conditions for companies, conditions for individuals, opportunities for individuals to stand up to the state when necessary, the state's ability to levy taxes in a fair way and combat cheating, and the ability of our society as a whole to be transparent and transparent about what governs a vital part of the state's activities as the tax law is. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support all of the Moderates' requests in the report, but I call for the approval of reservation 23. I do this in the light of the fact that, among all these important matters, it is a matter that stands out more and that is more called for than the others to discuss given Sweden's social development. The Social Democrats went to elections that something is breaking up in Swedish society. Then they took power, and then it happened. There is so much in Sweden that no longer works as it should. Trust between citizens and trust between citizens and states has if not broken, at least not only got one but several serious thorns. To a greater extent, fellow humans look suspiciously at each other, to a greater extent feel insecurity, and to a greater extent people are sceptical that what was once a reliable society and a secure state is always in their service. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish State has issued nearly 900 000 coordination numbers – many of them on unclear grounds and without the possibility of strengthening the underlying identity. Many people have several coordination numbers, and several coordination numbers belong to people that the state does not know who they are. It is not a way of creating security and trust in society. Ensuring identity, knowing who someone is, is essential in a welfare society and in a market economy in order for grant and tax payments to be made in the right way, for law enforcement to be effective and for people to be able to do business with each other and to socialise in a workable and civilised way. Säpo, the police, the Swedish Tax Agency and many other institutions and authorities have long sounded the alarm that this is something that has stopped working in Swedish society. Not without success, the Moderates have pushed the government forward on the issue of coordination numbers, and improvements have been made. We are clear that these improvements do not sufficiently meet the problems of Swedish society. It is necessary to report to the tax authorities to confirm identity. biometric data is needed in order to establish that a number and a person are linked. That is not the case today. Mr President, I would like to It is our hope that the government will continue to take steps in the right direction in this. Mr President, I would like to The insecurity of our society has many causes: crime, the sense of crime present and insufficient powers and resources in law enforcement. It is also a question of serious and organised crime, which not only creates victims through its direct actions but also insecure in society for all the people indirectly affected by being deprived of their security in everyday life. The problem of civil registration is an important part of organised crime. When the state does not know who lives where and it is traded with addresses, it becomes easier for criminals to hide from justice and thus continue their destructive activities. The shortcomings we have in population records are also in themselves a source of crime. False addresses are used to gain benefits and welfare services to which you are not really entitled. Maybe you don't even live in the country anymore but can still gain welfare benefits, all the time or when it suits you. We have seen examples of Swedish cities where there are even networks of people inside what should be government practice in the correct way that works to pay grants in a way that is not compatible with Swedish laws and regulations. But false census data are not just used to commit crimes. People can also be written at the wrong address out of pure need and coercion. They are being used ruthlessly by others who illegally sell addresses to them so that they can continue to exist and function in our society at all. The police estimate that in our vulnerable areas approximately 6 percent are registered at the wrong address. It is easy to understand what kind of problems this creates for the authorities that will fight crime and for the authorities that will meet people in everyday life, such as social services or the Employment Service. When it is unclear who is who and who lives where, it is not possible to get in touch with people properly, pay out subsidies or direct support efforts. The question must also be asked what it is like for the people affected by this. If 30 people are written in a small apartment, how many live there really, how do they have it and what opportunities do their children have? How can society target the most vulnerable when we do not even know how they are vulnerable or affected? What are the resources left for all honest people who get up, work and toil every day and fall asleep tired at night when so many people can expose our common welfare systems to fraud, cheating and ruthless exploitation? The government does not lack merit in this area. Investigations have been set up and certain measures have been taken. However, it has been slow and much work remains to be done. With our motions in this area and the reservation 23 that I have already called for, we call on the government to tackle these problems and restore order and order, not only in the coordination numbers, but in the whole population register. If Sweden wants to be a well-functioning welfare state, a highly functioning market economy and a society characterised by zeal, toil, integrity, productivity and industriousness with access to well-being and help and support for those who need it, we must have good order. Mr President, I would like to I wish everyone present and everyone who listens to a happy summer despite the difficult situation our country and our world are in. I would also like to send a request to our government to get to grips with the disorder and disorder that has spread out in our society as a matter of urgency.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-176	Mr President, I would like to Sweden will charge taxes to finance, among other things, welfare, security and investments in growth. At the same time, we must also be competitive with the world around us in the area of taxation. This applies both to tax rates and to tax agreements. Tax agreements fulfil several important functions. Its main function is to eliminate double taxation and promote Swedish investment abroad. Tax agreements should also prevent tax evasion. The Government's objective in the field of tax agreements is a modern and updated tax treaty network with good conditions of competition for Swedish companies, but this objective has not been achieved. In 2010, the Swedish National Audit Office concluded in a report that Sweden was lagging behind with the update of the tax agreements. This backlog has continued since then. We have argued on a number of occasions that this needs to be addressed. Unfortunately, it has not been speeded up in the way we had hoped. As far as population records, as the previous speaker was concerned, Sweden has had inadequate routines for a long time. The problems escalated in connection with the so-called refugee crisis in 2015, which has resulted in us having very poor control over where people live and what people are in the country. This is particularly true of illegal migrants, who in some cases are registered at addresses where more are written than should reasonably be accommodated in the apartment. In other cases, people live here without being written at all even though they do not even have the right to reside in the country. The Swedish National Audit Office's review RiR 2017:23 shows that the Swedish Tax Agency's work to maintain the quality of public records is not carried out effectively. This lack of control has reduced confidence in Sweden in our neighbouring countries. Already in 2016, Norway's Prime Minister Solberg Erna said that it was prepared to close the border with Sweden if the Swedish system collapsed. And even in 2014, even earlier, the Danish border police reacted to how easily Sweden grants entry permits and distributes Swedish passports to men who pose known threats to security. When the corona began to spread, Sweden took people into the country who only stepped in without the slightest restrictions and without the slightest control, which has now led to the fact that our surrounding world has actually closed the borders. And as these borders open up, they do not open up to Sweden. What we can learn from this, Mr President, is that those who have too wide-open borders will soon have their borders closed from outside. It is rather ironic that no wall strategy would lead to walls against Sweden. I also share the previous speaker's views on the problem of coordination numbers. Mr President, we must regain control of who is staying in Sweden if our neighbours are to want to open their borders with Sweden again, other than reluctantly. The Swedish Democrats support our six reservations in this report. On the basis of the vote, I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 24.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-184	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by thanking the President in particular for a very dignified, quiet, humble and fine memorial ceremony for the victims of the pandemic. The Swedish tax system will contribute to the financing of our common public expenditure. The tax system must be fair, predictable and long-term. People and businesses should feel that the tax system has legitimacy, and they should have confidence in it. Taxes must be designed so that people dare to take risks and start businesses. Taxes will contribute to growth and development throughout the country, facilitate job creation and entrepreneurship and stimulate green tax exchange. The thresholds for small-scale entrepreneurship must be reduced and regulatory simplification and lower taxes must be introduced. It is important that taxes are designed to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish companies. It is the foundation of our well-being, and our companies are doing well if we can attract investments to Sweden. Mr President, I would like to After this programme statement, one might ask whether it is working like this today. Well, much works well, but much can also get better. It is even necessary to make things better, as the Center Party puts its view on the various reservations. These include rules on representative liability in companies, the system of employees and the lack of proportionality between companies and the Tax Agency in tax disputes and tax cases. I will focus on some of these reservations. As I said, taxes must be designed so that people dare to take risks and start businesses. Today, there are rules that actually counteract this. One example is the so-called representative liability – rules on personal liability in the Tax Procedure Act. There is a lack of knowledge of the rules on representative liability, and the rules have also come to be applied very rigorously. This can have major unexpected consequences for the private economy of board members of small companies. Companies are also at risk of closure, perhaps prematurely or unnecessarily. It also risks having a negative impact on the possibility of recruiting board members. The responsibility of representatives should therefore be fully investigated, which is under way. We look forward to the investigation due in October this year. However, the issue of representative responsibility has become particularly urgent in the current crisis. The mere risk of the Tax Agency applying for representative liability vis-à-vis an entrepreneur or a member of the board of directors may force companies to early closure for fear of making mistakes. Mr President, I would like to Since its introduction, the system of human resources has been extended on several occasions. For example, by 2018, provisions were introduced that require all persons living under the same roof where they are engaged in business activities to register if they contribute in any way to the activity. If a company has failed to enter someone in the personnel league, it will be obliged to pay a control fee to the Swedish Tax Agency. And speaking of control fees: The Tax Agency also seems to have a fondness for levying exceptionally high ones. Well, the fact that an owner of a business and his family are subject to the requirement to sign up for a staffer shows that the law does not really understand how a small family business operates, where you live and work in the company 24 hours a day. Mr President, I would like to The construction industry has been covered by the Human Resources Act since 2016, which is a good thing because parts of the construction industry unfortunately still have problems with rogue entrepreneurs who employ undeclared workers. The system was introduced to curb undeclared work in various industries and thus create a level playing field in the market. However, the design of the legislation has proved to have consequences that are difficult to manage and directly unwanted, not least for agricultural enterprises, since the provision on staffing rights also applies to agricultural construction. In the winter it can be this and so with agriculture, and then it is common for the employees of the farm company to work to, for example, equip buildings. But if you switch from a fork or a pitchfork to a hammer, you first have to go and sign up in the staff league. Those are unreasonable rules! This is an unreasonable consequence of the system of human resources which hardly serves the purpose of the provision, i.e. reducing the proportion of undeclared work and improving the neutrality of competition. It should be another example of complicated rules that affect an already strained industry. I and the Center Party believe that the system of human resources creditors should cover companies whose main business consists of the areas covered by the Human Resources Act. Companies where, for example, construction is not the actual activity but rather a side effect should be exempted from the requirement of human resources, especially in cases where work is carried out by the entrepreneur himself, his family or the company's employees. Mr President, I would like to Technological developments have progressed. The law on cash registers and the system of individual employers' declarations have both led to different conditions today compared with the introduction of the system of workers. The Center Party believes that the system needs to be reviewed again with the main objective of reducing the hassle and getting a simpler system. This is important for those small businesses that want to develop and invest in their business. In particular, there should be a review of the number of people employed in the tourism industry and an exemption from the requirement for the owner and his family to sign up for a civil servant. Madam President, I would like With regard to legal certainty in tax cases, there are too many historical examples, as in the past, that entrepreneurs are being squeezed as a consequence of the Tax Agency's administrative procedures as well as of reinterpretations of laws and regulations – sometimes in the middle of the current operating year. Some deterrent examples are the Swedish Tax Agency's interpretations of the benefit value of quadricycles and changed conditions for energy tax for lifts in slalom slopes. These are examples from the last financial year. For companies with large legal and economic branches, problems and difficulties are often manageable in terms of human resources, but even for these, processes and management itself can create major problems. For the smaller companies, who are supposed to do the same job but with less resources, even what appears to be minor changes, especially when it happens hastily, can threaten the very existence of the company. There must therefore be a review of the proportionality of tax disputes between traders and the Swedish Tax Agency. Madam President, I would like The most important thing we see is to maintain confidence in the tax system. It is crucial to work continuously to simplify for taxpayers, especially in these times when we are moving towards a postcorona period. We have said it before, and we say it again: the crisis has led to many rules and regulations having been rapidly changed to facilitate business. This is where we should put on the simplification goggles and really take the chance: do not re-introduce unnecessary rules! I'm in favour of reservation 15.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-205	Madam President, I would like Every year, Sweden becomes more and more unequal. The value of many's work ends up in a few pockets, while welfare goes on its knees. Wealth and capital are concentrated in those who have the most and leave a great many behind. While ordinary people have fallen behind, the richest have been able to deduct heavily, not least because of low taxes on capital income. In addition, it has become increasingly clear that decades of cuts in welfare and the dismantling of security systems have worsened our ability to face a crisis. If we are to stop this development and increase equality, the rich must start contributing, crisis or not. For the Left Party, it is obvious to redistribute resources and invest in general welfare. For us, it is self-evident to reduce economic disparities and prioritise the economically vulnerable. I hardly believe it is billionaires, CEOs and rich shareholders who are saving us from the crisis. It is welfare workers, health workers, bus drivers and so on that do. More and more efforts should be made there, and working conditions should be strengthened. I call for the approval of Amendment No 30 by the Left Party.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-208	Madam President, I would like It must be easier to run companies in Sweden. The start-up of businesses and the hiring of people by entrepreneurs are the foundation of our prosperity and well-being. We have everything to gain by more start-ups and by simplifying for those who run businesses. Regulatory simplifications for companies often come up in the debate, and there are very good reasons for that. The regulatory burden must be reduced so that entrepreneurs can spend less of their time, energy and money on administration and focus on the most important: running their business. When entrepreneurs are asked which rules are the most important to simplify, tax rules usually come high up in the order of priority. Some of these tax rules are being debated here today. Madam President, I would like Everyone who works or has worked in a restaurant, for example, knows about the staff league. It is the book in which everyone who works in the restaurant must write in and out. If, during an inspection, the staffier has not been properly carried out, this means a fine for the employer. If there is a purpose to do wrong or if it has just gone wrong, it does not matter. For many entrepreneurs, this is a constant concern that small mistakes will lead to large fines. The human resources system was introduced in 2007 and the aim was basically good: to combat unfair competition and undeclared work. It is still important, but we need to ask ourselves whether the tools we use are the best and most effective. As times change, tools also need to be changed. As time has passed, new rules have also been introduced to which the entrepreneur should relate. Looking at these rules individually, many of them may appear reasonable and justified, but together all rules are a huge burden for the entrepreneur. Then we politicians must clear the rule jungle. We Christian Democrats think it is clear that the human resources gypsies are not having the desired effect today. It is far too easy to deceive the system, and the errors detected may as well be about mistakes as about cheating. Moreover, when the system brings major problems for employers, it can only lead to one conclusion: it is high time to phase out the human resources gypsies in their current form. Madam President, I would like It is a fundamental principle of our legal system to be innocent until proven guilty. You also have the right to appeal a judgment and have it examined in at least one higher instance, and judgments are not enforced until they have become final. These are important principles in our legal system, yet they do not always apply. In tax cases, the scheme is such that entrepreneurs have to pay a custodial debt even when waiting for a decision from the administrative courts. Thus, an entrepreneur can get the house foreclosed and then be acquitted in a higher court. There are deferment rules, but they are limited and applied very restrictively. There is a need to introduce more generous deferral rules for tax liabilities during the duration of a legal process. There must be exceptional reasons not to grant respite, and so the Christian Democrats believe that the respite rules need to be reviewed. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Tax Agency estimates that there are approximately 200 000 errors in the Swedish civil register. It is an assessment; the actual number may be greater and it may be smaller. No one really knows for sure, but there are a lot of errors and we have to deal with this. Being registered at an address in Sweden is often a prerequisite for receiving grants and benefits. For this reason, the crime of population registration is precisely the basis for many other types of crime, such as benefit crime. To cheat with subsidies and compensation is to commit crimes against our entire society, against taxpayers and against those who really need the support of society. That is why the Christian Democrats in the spring proposed that a census be made so that we can restart the censuses, correct the errors and prevent the crimes of benefit. Unfortunately, the January parties and the Left Party said no to this. It shows, once again, the need for a new government – a government capable of taking action to address these problems. Finally, Madam President, the Christian Democrats naturally support all their reservations on the matter, but in order to gain time at voting time, I only ask for reservation l.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-220	Madam President, I would like In one of the last debates before the summer, it may not be surprising that there are so many in the room. Maybe there aren't a lot of people listening either, what do I know? I think, however, that people should do it. This, Madam President, is one of the more important debates in the Swedish Parliament during the year. If you think that any expenditure the state has is important – if you think that it is important with the judiciary, with the police, with welfare and with school – you should also think that it is important that the tax system works. It is, in fact, the basis for all other activities that we are engaged in here in Parliament. If you think it is important for the state to collect taxes, you should also think that it is important that it is done in a legally secure and fair way, that it is done in a way that creates legitimacy for the state and for the system as a whole and that it is done in a way that treats those who pay taxes in a fair way, quite simply. Madam President, I would like These are precisely the problems we are dealing with here today. It is a question of when the state, through its tax procedure, does not take sufficient account of legal certainty, of fairness and of having regulations that are at a reasonable level and do not burden entrepreneurs, those who create jobs, in an excessively difficult way. If we want prosperity and tax revenue tomorrow too, we need not only levels of taxation that are competitive but also a tax system and a tax procedure that attracts entrepreneurship and to work rather than is burdensome for entrepreneurs and makes it harder to be workers. I am thinking of the need to improve the equivalence and simplicity of the system. It must be easier to understand how the system works. It should not be the case that as a taxpayer, whether you are an entrepreneur or a worker, you should feel burdened by your contacts with the Tax Agency and that you should think that tax procedures are difficult. That is not the case, but it is the testimony of many that it is. This is, for example, about the abnormal regulatory burden that citizens are subjected to in Sweden. The human rights system has been mentioned here, and I have to agree with previous speakers that it is a problem that the human rights system looks like it does. Every single, onerous rule that we put on the shoulders of those who create prosperity in this country, that is, the entrepreneurs, may seem reasonable, but the whole thing becomes completely unreasonable. All in all, we are suffocating the creativity and entrepreneurship that could really have lifted us out of the economic crisis that we are going to be in now. The human rights system is an example of this. The system doesn't work the way it looks today. We have assessed it earlier in the Tax Committee and found a lot of shortcomings that actually show that the system in its current form is not working. Madam President, I would like I am also thinking of how the Swedish Tax Agency and we, as tax policy, view our role. I may think it's sometimes a little too much so that we look at our role as being zealous and trying to frame people as much as possible. I think it should be the other way round, that we should see it as a service and that those of us who are involved in fiscal policy should see it as a matter of simplification for people. We will make the systems easily understood and credible over time. Then it is a problem when we have a system such as today where tax decisions can often be reconsidered at a later date in a way that can be unpredictable. We are on the state side too restrictive with deferments, and we demand money before things have been appealed and decisions gained legal force. That's a problem. Then we who are tax policies and we who work with taxes in this country do not see ourselves as a service body. If you do not, and constantly try to hunt people as much as possible, try to be as zealous as possible and try to build up new, complicated systems that are hard to understand, the legitimacy of the system is reduced because trust is diminished. And that, Madam President, is very dangerous. If confidence in the tax system is reduced, if entrepreneurs do not feel that they can rely on the decisions they receive and if citizens feel that the regulatory burden is too great, it will mean that more people will try to escape in different ways. This will mean that fewer people dare to enter into business and make a reality of their entrepreneurship. This will ultimately mean that we will have less tax revenue even though the ambition was to get more. Madam President, I would like It is clear that we need to make the system simpler, lighten the regulatory burden and make it fairer and more legally secure with, for example, a more generous use of deferment. Madam President, I would like One thing I do not think one can miss out on in a debate like this is the problems of tax evasion. One thing that leads people to choose to try to evade the tax is complicated regulations, burdensome bureaucracy and legal uncertainty on the part of the state. However, priority also needs to be given to stopping tax evasion. We must ensure that the actions of those who do not support our common system are prosecuted. It's not okay to try to get away from the treasure. This must be precisely a collaboration in which we ensure that we devote ourselves more to service and to helping people with a simple system while at the same time squeezing those who cheat with the help of the long arm of the law. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to endorse our Amendment No 26, which deals with population records and that we need to improve on that. Several problems associated with this have been raised here earlier in the debate. We also have a reservation, and that's reservation 26. I thought I'd finish by wishing everyone a nice summer. I would like to wish both billionaires and bus drivers, as mentioned by the Left Party, a pleasant summer. I would like to wish both the CEOs of the stock market giants and the local merchants a pleasant summer. Together, we're building this country. We pay all taxes, we all need a legally secure system and we are all carriers of Sweden out of the corona crisis.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-234	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. What we are discussing today and have been discussing is the Tax Procedure Act and the National Accounts Act. The Tax Procedure Act was created on 1 January 2012 and replaced about ten laws. We received the Population Accounts Act on 1 July 1991, and it is about determining people's residences and also about recording data such as identity, family and other relationships. Members of Parliament have written many motions on this during the general period of exercise, and that is what we are discussing today. A functioning tax system in which everyone does the right thing is a prerequisite for the Swedish model. And most people do the right thing. Tax evasion and tax evasion occur, however, and involve huge costs for Sweden and other countries, and it pulls resources away from our common welfare. Combating tax evasion is therefore a priority area for us Social Democrats. The government worked intensively throughout the last parliamentary term with a programme against tax evasion, tax evasion and money laundering. Some measures comply with international directives that Sweden has been involved in producing, and others are domestic and have been implemented on its own initiative by the government. The fight against tax evasion, tax evasion and money laundering must continue at both international and national level. One current example is that we are now conducting a huge financial rescue mission to protect jobs and companies in the wake of the coronapandemy, but we are not doing it without conditions. This debate was held earlier in this House by the Committee on Finance. For a helping hand in the form of conversion aid, the company must not be placed in a tax haven, and we want a special crime classification for those who cheat, with prison on the scale of punishment. The Swedish Agency for Growth and the Swedish Tax Agency has several new opportunities to control companies that use short-term lay-off. The aim is to prevent cheating. Madam President, I would like It is also of great importance, from a social point of view, that civil registration activities can fulfil their task of ensuring that the information in the population register reflects the residence, identity and family law of the population. In this way, different social functions can have a correct basis for decisions and actions. However, there is a population register error, which is estimated at around 1.9%. Measures already taken by the Government are, among other things, an opportunity for the Tax Agency to control residence. It is also carried out a reintroduction of civil record crimes. The Government has also set up a population register inquiry to be completed in April 2021. It shall, inter alia, propose measures to ensure that the population records contain, as far as possible, accurate information and prevent a person from being registered in a non-resident country. The investigation shall also propose measures relating to coordination numbers. With regard to the coordination number, which has been debated for some time, the government has, pending the population register inquiry, put forward a proposal for a rapid track of action. The fast track means, among other things, more requirements for the person requesting the allocation of the coordination number: the identification requirement becomes clearer. There is an address requirement and automatic cancellation after five years. The IRS can also make a cancellation if they detect errors. Another area mentioned in the report is human resources, which exist in various sectors, such as construction. The aim of human resources workers is to reduce the incidence of undeclared work and to create a healthier competitive environment. Human resources workers contribute to the Swedish Tax Agency's possibility of physical visits to various businesses, such as the construction industry. Physical visits are an important element for the work's ability to work against the existence of undeclared work. How this is done in practice shows, among other things, an agency's joint report on undeclared work that came in 2019. When it comes to paying taxes, it should be easy to do the right thing, both for individuals and for companies. We are in complete agreement on this. The Swedish Tax Agency has worked with this for a long time, constantly developing its methods and digital tools and has achieved a high level of trust both in individuals and in companies. Once again, I support the committee's proposal. I would also like to extend a great deal of thanks to the members of the committee with whom we have worked during the year, to the office, to the staff of the tax office and to the President and all the parliamentary staff.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-246	Madam President, I would like The proposal that we are now going to debate means that a number of waste types that have previously been exempt from waste tax should no longer be. The reason is that the conditions which previously justified the exemptions for these types of waste have changed. Since there is a risk that the current exemptions in the Waste Act will be assessed as State aid, the changes need to be made. The types of waste concerned are largely not being disposed of today. The changes can therefore in principle be classified as administrative. In the context of this case, the Government has considered introducing a general exemption for residual waste from landfill recycling. It is good that we have looked at the issue, but unfortunately the government has come to the wrong conclusion: that a tax exemption should not take place at present. The Christian Democrats regret that. We believe, contrary to the fact that there are good reasons to introduce such a tax exemption already, because it will make the recycling of raw materials more attractive. And more recycling means, of course, less environmental impact. The investigation on which the government bases this position is from 2016. Among the referral bodies which then replied are both those who are positive and those who are more awaiting such a tax exemption. One of the respondents is Linköping University, which may be regarded as a relatively heavy consultation body. According to them, research in this area shows that overall there is significant environmental potential in the recovery of raw materials from landfills. They also believe that the environmental analysis carried out is very limited. Madam President, I would like Simplifying recycling and the circular economy is an important environmental measure. A tax exemption for landfill recycling would do just that. In addition, it would send out an important signal: that the government believes that continued investment in landfill recycling is something to invest in. In addition, a general exemption is preferable as it would simplify the management of the companies involved and increase the profitability and attractiveness of such activities. Since it has now been four years since the issue was investigated and progress is fast, the government should urgently investigate the matter again. The Christian Democrats therefore propose that the Riksdag announce this to the government. I ask you to accept reservation 1. Finally, I would like to thank the President, the committee secretariat and the colleagues in the tax committee and wish them a happy summer.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-253	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating amendments to the Waste Tax Act. A brief look back reminds us of why we have this kind of treasure. The idea, a little more than 20 years ago, of introducing waste tax was to increase the financial incentives for better treatment of waste from an environmental and natural resource perspective. At that time, tax exemptions were also introduced for certain types of waste for which there were no environmentally better alternatives than landfill. A lot has happened since then. Tax regulations and other instruments, together with technology development and increased environmental awareness, have led to major behavioural changes in our society. In environmental matters, we have increasingly moved towards the idea of a circular economy, that is, recycling and re-use. It also requires a sorting of waste. We've left the huge unsorted dumps behind us. That's good. The landfill should only be used when no other solution exists, but technology development constantly reduces the need. Where there is will, change is also taking place. Technological development does not fall from the sky but comes from a combination of economic incentives and political will to invest in different types of research and development. Policies can also affect the economy and businesses. Anna Lindh, later one of our top environmental ministers, ran as SSU chairman for catalytic converters for exhaust gas cleaning, and she criticized Volvo. Catalytic exhaust gas cleaning became a matter of course, and it was not the market but the policy that was driving this development. Politics is always for us Social Democrats to want to improve. Today we are discussing less, but very technical, changes to the existing waste tax law. I have summed up the proposal: tax paid on waste deposited or stored in an installation which is no longer subject to tax shall be refunded on the waste taken out of such an establishment under certain conditions. At the same time, the exemption from waste tax on recycled fibre waste and de-inking sludge from the reprocessing of recycled paper as well as on coal waste, dust and sludge from the cleaning of flue gases in the production of aluminium is abolished. An addition to the existing exemption from waste tax is that it should also include sand. Finally, it is proposed to update the limit value for the amount of caesium that can be incorporated in biofuel ash exempted from waste tax. The changes I have just read are the result of an assignment that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Tax Agency received in order to propose changes that favour the clean-up of closed waste facilities. Without going into more detail, I would like to call for approval of the Government proposal and conclude by commenting on the reservation and the specific opinion raised by other parties. I share the view that we need both simplification and a major overhaul of the tax system. However, I believe that it needs to be done from the perspective of enabling us to finance an even stronger welfare and more equality. I'm really looking forward to bigger tax rebates. In the meantime, however, some rules need to be updated as more environmentally friendly alternatives to landfills become possible. These are necessary adjustments, not least with reference to the European rules that we need to relate to. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I thank you for the past parliamentary year and wish everyone a happy midsummer.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-262	Madam President, I would like The proposals for amendments to the Waste Tax Act are good, and we Moderates have no objections to them. However, these proposals do not address the fundamental problem of the design and direction of the waste tax. We therefore believe that it is time to take a holistic approach and review the Waste Tax Act. Madam President, I would like Landfill is the final step in waste management. When it is not possible to recycle and reuse, the waste ends up on landfill. The waste tax was introduced in 2000 to reduce the landfill of waste and to stimulate prevention, recycling and reuse. The law has been successful. Today, only 0.7 per cent of Swedish household waste is landfilled, which means that the environmental impact of the law has ebbed out. Tax revenues have also fallen, from about 200 million when the tax was introduced to 49 million in 2019, although the tax has more than doubled from 250 SEK per tonne to 550 SEK per tonne. It is not the tax on waste alone that has led to the drastic reduction of waste. Other instruments have also played a major role, such as the ban on landfilling organic waste and combustible waste. Similarly, the rules on producer responsibility, increased recycling targets and the collection of catering waste have made people and businesses more aware of the importance of avoiding landfilling. What ends up in landfills today is industrial waste that is exempt from tax, such as excavated material from the mining industry or contaminated soil from decontamination. Today, an ordinary waste facility works mostly to recycle and process waste. The old dumps are gone. Today there is high-tech recycling of materials, sorting, treatment of contaminated soils, handling of ashes, and so on. This diversification has led to the management of the waste tax becoming a major administrative burden. Tax is levied on everything entering a waste facility, and deductions are allowed for treatment other than landfill. It goes without saying that any exemptions and exemptions in the Waste Tax Act mean that far too much administrative resources are spent both from taxpayers and from the Tax Authority. These are resources that could have been used for something other than bureaucracy. A recent report by Pricewaterhousecoopers was presented. It shows that the waste tax is a socio-economic loss business. According to the same report, the loss is SEK 30 – 40 million, about the same as the direct tax revenue, which means that both the economic and the environmental impact of the tax is highly questionable. Therefore, it would be very desirable to review the waste tax. My colleague from the Social Democrats, Sultan Kayhan, said that she is not against it as long as that revenue comes in. However, since there is hardly any revenue without it, companies are simply burdened with a lot of regulatory problems, administrative charges and so on, it should be self-evident that we are reviewing the law. Norway successfully abolished its waste tax law a few years ago. We could look at how they have done and whether it is a good example that we can copy. Or we can choose some other way and design the law better, so that it stimulates the increase in recycling and reuse and the reduction of waste. I wish the President a really nice summer. The same wish I have for my colleagues in the Tax Committee, for our office and for everyone else.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-269	Madam President, I would like Today we have to deal with a proposal based on several different environmental aspects. It's a little complicated matter. I have to admit that I have handled and learned some of the familiar chemical concepts of my past when I read this report. LSA, the Waste Tax Act, aims, among other things, to control waste from landfill to more environmentally smart ways of managing waste. Only that which cannot be handled otherwise shall be deposited. Fortunately, technology is progressing, as we have heard many others say here before me. Today, the very waste that ends up in landfill is decreasing. In addition, there are still resources to be collected from the material previously deposited. Here today's report meets its first objective, namely to facilitate the extraction of materials and minerals from closed landfills. This can be done if, for example, the need to clean up old landfills or because that particular land is needed for other purposes. If, in the event of a landfill recycling operation, materials which need to be deposited again remain, it shall not be taxed again, and for the materials that can be reused, the tax shall be refunded. Madam President, I would like When LSA was introduced, a tax exemption was proposed for certain types of waste, mainly industry-specific industrial waste. The starting point at the time was that for these wastes and treatment methods there was no more environmentally intelligent alternative to landfill for a foreseeable period of time. Nor was it considered possible to reduce quantities through other processes, other choice of raw materials and so on. A waste tax on this waste would therefore have no steering effect. If new more environmentally friendly alternatives to landfill are developed, the exemptions and deductions are no longer included as a basis for exemption. If the material ends up in landfill anyway, there will be taxation via LSA. For example, the proposal no longer covers recycled fibre waste as it is much better to incinerate that waste than to deposit it. Madam President, I would like This has good ends. It is not necessary to deposit reusable items and to promote the recovery of landfills. The question is whether the proposals serve their purpose best. Can the recycling of landfills be improved even better? The report argues that it is difficult to draw a line on what is old and new waste. This may lead to companies failing to pay waste tax on what is to be taxed. I am among those who believe that companies do not want to cheat, but that they want to do the right thing just because it is simple and clear. I would like to conclude my speech by largely agreeing with the Moderates' specific opinion that the Waste Tax Act, just as the tax system as a whole, needs to be reviewed in order to function optimally. Reduced needs, effective steering effects and, in particular, administrative costs for public authorities argue that a review is needed. Having said that, I will not use more than three and a half minutes of my pre-announced eight minutes of speaking time. I shall conclude by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. I thank my colleagues in the committee, all the other Members and all the staff for a fantastic job. It has been a very fun and different parliamentary year. Thank you, and nice summer!
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-277	Madam President, I would like I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report. It is a good thing that unjustified exceptions that hinder a circular economy are brought to an end. I would like to take this opportunity to broaden the discussion also to the extraction of natural resources and materials. It is precisely the extraction and processing that accounts for about 90% of the loss of biodiversity. It is also about 50 percent of the climate impact that can be present at that stage. Of all waste in Sweden, about 4 million tonnes of waste comes from households. This compares with 110 million tonnes of waste from mining. The latter is what is exempt from the landfill tax or the waste tax. It is important to mention that factor. It shows how skewed it is. We do not dare to tax the actual extraction and extraction. There are also calculations showing that metal from one tonne of bottom ash can replace six tonnes of mining waste. We must keep the overall picture and dare to turn around in different places throughout the chain if we are to have a circular and non-toxic economy. We also have the mineral fee in Sweden, which is on shame 2 per mille. It is internationally very low. There is no requirement for mining companies to be able to take financial responsibility in the event of unforeseen events and to restore the land after them, but it is placed on taxpayers. I would therefore like to stress how important it is for us to put the tax on the levy as well. We must be able to do the right thing from the start. We must continue to develop incentives for non-toxic circular systems and invest in product design, research and pilot projects. It is really just the additions I want to make to the debate. As my colleague mentioned, it is a rather complicated text. I'm not going to try to repeat it. Madam President, I would like Instead, I would like to thank my committee colleagues, all the Members of Parliament and all the staff. I wish you all a pleasant summer!
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-285	Madam President, I would like Today, instead of Angelica Lundberg, I am standing here because of the current situation and will read out her speech in the debate. Today, we are debating the Government's letter in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's report on consumer protection in the financial field. I would like to begin by calling for the reservation to be approved. In the report, the Swedish National Audit Office reports its review of central government supervision linked to consumer protection regulations. The purpose of the review has been to investigate whether the Government, Finansinspektionen and the Swedish Consumer Agency have created the conditions for supervision to contribute to a high level of consumer protection in the area. The Swedish National Audit Office notes in the report that although the conditions for a high level of consumer protection in the financial market have been strengthened since the last review, consumers feel that the problems are increasing. It is not easy to be a consumer today, and there is much left for the government to do to achieve adequate consumer protection. For example, measures that would make it easier for consumers are better labelling of origin and contents, in particular consumer protection for children and young people in the digital world and stricter rules for telephone sales. Further measures that would improve for consumers are the possibility for authorities to share information with each other. With today's regulations, confidentiality rules often put an end to this type of information exchange, which is unfortunate. The rules on confidentiality exist in order to protect the individual's data against the general and shall not hinder the exchange of information between authorities. The Swedish National Audit Office also notes in its report that the Public Access and Confidentiality Act (2009:400) places certain obstacles to an effective exchange of information between the authorities covered by the review. It is therefore important that the Government urgently set up an investigation to review how the confidentiality rules can be changed to facilitate the exchange of information between authorities while at the same time protecting the individual.
i-P3c9cvueEHuKnj8U5D6CNJ	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the civil committee's report 24 on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on state supervision and consumer protection in the financial field. I would like to start by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for the report to be added to the file. Financial products and services are used by virtually everyone in society. Without effective solutions for savings, loans and insurance, modern society would not work. The range of financial services is large. Consumers often find it complicated to choose the right way. The consumer has a huge lack of knowledge with the seller of financial services. The report from the Swedish National Audit Office examines the Swedish Government's, Finansinspektionen's and the Swedish Consumer Agency's work on the consumer protection regulatory framework on these issues. There are comments that have been addressed to the authorities and the government. I intend to focus mainly on the government's views and assessments of the Swedish National Audit Office's observations in the report. The government's general objectives for consumer policy are well-functioning consumer markets and an environmentally, socially and economically sustainable situation for consumers. High financial protection is an important issue for government parties. It is gratifying that the Swedish National Audit Office can see that several progress has been made. Governance has been made clearer, the audit has improved and the reporting to the Riksdag has also increased. Of course, the report also mentions complaints and that they can have their roots in various things. This applies, for example, to bank opening hours, card payments, technical services and other things. Other comments relate to matters concerning the authorities and the government. Madam President, I would like There are a number of problems in the Government's area of responsibility that the Swedish National Audit Office believes need to be reviewed. It mentions, among other things, statistics showing an increasing number of requests for payment orders from financial undertakings. This demonstrates the importance of effective supervision and cooperation between the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and the Swedish Consumer Agency to ensure that the provisions of the Consumer Credit Act are complied with. The government takes this development seriously with payment orders and has therefore taken steps to tighten the legislation on the marketing of credit options in e-commerce. When shopping online, the credit option should not come up at the top, nor should it be checked in advance. In order to strengthen consumer protection, the government has also taken other measures. A memorandum has been referred to strengthen consumer protection in the deposit market. New legislation has been introduced for the collection of contributions by insurance undertakings in the event of buy-back and removal of individual personal insurance, and a new regulation for occupational pension schemes has been introduced. Another problem area that has existed is consumer protection within the premium pension scheme. There have been deficiencies here for a long time, according to the Pension Agency, and there have been both illegal and inappropriate activities in this area. Several measures have been taken in the near future to overcome this problem. Telephone sales and marketing of funds and services linked to the premium pension area have been prohibited since 1 July 2018. Telephone sales had been such a major source of problems that comments and complaints to the Pension Agency went down by 38% after this was introduced. The requirements for the funds participating in the fund square have also been significantly increased, and the cooperation agreements have become more extensive. In addition, the pension authority now has an ongoing follow-up of the companies' compliance with the requirements. These changes have been implemented in order to create a safe and sustainable premium pension scheme pending the establishment of a new regulatory framework with a fund square. The Swedish National Audit Office considers that the measures taken have significantly strengthened consumer protection in this area. This could be further improved, but these are factors beyond the control of the Swedish authorities. The government parties agree with the Swedish National Audit Office that clearer requirements are required within EU cooperation. Requirements for effective enforcement in all Member States could further improve consumer protection. Madam President, I would like The report contains a reservation that the Act on Public Access to Information and Confidentiality creates certain obstacles to effective cooperation between authorities. The issue is mentioned in the report, and the government parties agree with the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment of the problem. The Government has already decided on certain amendments to the regulation to the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and the Swedish Consumer Agency to address the problem. A joint report on how to interact and disclose data between the respective authorities was also received on 1 June 2018. This report is now the basis for work to improve the rules on confidentiality and publicity in this area. The question was raised at the moment in the Government Office, and since the question is under consideration, neither I nor the committee support the motion and the reservation. Having said that, I wish the President and Members of Parliament a pleasant summer.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-312	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office's report The support for municipalities for increased housing construction contains extensive criticism, and we share the criticism that has been expressed about the support. There has been a lack of clear guidelines and feedback on the impact of the aid granted by the State. Despite these shortcomings, we have seen continued support, the so-called construction bonus, in both 2017 and 2018 after the support was introduced in 2016. Despite the criticism, the Government has chosen to add the Swedish National Audit Office's report to the documents without evaluation. We believe that this is problematic, because it involves such large sums of money in the state budget and lessons need to be learned from the effects. The construction bonus came into being as part of the migration agreement between the government and the then Alliance. That is what underpins these efforts by the state. That is probably also why the Swedish Democrats are standing alone in this House today debating this building bonus with the government and the Social Democrats. There has been extensive support for housing for newly arrived migrants in Sweden, in relation to the appropriations in Category 18 relating to housing policy. At the same time, the Swedish National Audit Office notes in the report that, despite the efforts made in this area, housing construction has not been sufficient. Many weak groups, young and elderly born in Sweden, have been overlooked in these efforts by the government. Very little has been done to provide housing for these groups on the housing market. We have seen for a long time that the population is growing strongly without housing being included. If it had been chosen to see these problems at an earlier stage, it might have been possible to ensure that young people were not forced to live at home without the opportunity to leave home and enter adulthood. Perhaps one had not had to give up, for example, family formation, and one might not have had to choose to start a family under crowded conditions. In its eagerness to save face regarding the breakdown of migration policy, the government introduced this building bonus. The aid has been adjusted according to a breakdown indicating that 60% of the aid will go to the municipalities that have received a higher proportion of migrants. So there is a connection to the instruction law, or the residence law – whatever you want to call it. Those who receive a higher proportion of migrants also receive higher support. The aid is thus allocated on the basis of the quotas laid down in the Instructions Act, which was introduced on 1 March 2016. Based on this, at the end of November you can receive a sum from the state in the form of a building bonus. According to the report, this has made it more difficult for municipalities to adapt and use the aid, which is one of the reasons why it has not been possible to have such an effect from the state. In other words, there are several problems. Another problem is that not all municipalities have had the opportunity to participate in the aid to the same extent. Whether it is about moving into the municipality from other parts of Sweden or moving in people born in another country, i.e. newly arrived migrants, we believe that housing support should go to all municipalities. After all, we have very many growth municipalities and growth regions in need of more housing but currently have problems with growth. Companies that need to expand and need skills are not able to recruit because of the large housing shortage. This is of course a serious problem, and we believe that everyone should have the same opportunity to benefit from the build bonus. The government has not made this possible for all municipalities because it is adapted to how many migrants a municipality has received. This is therefore totally counterproductive when it comes to creating jobs and conditions for integration purposes. I do not understand how this solution has been found. We share the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment. The Swedish Democrats believe that the government should investigate how the grant is used, which municipalities have been able to take part of it and what the funds have been used for. We also believe that the support should be investigated to learn lessons for future design of the support, that the support should be coordinated with the municipal planning and budget process, and that reporting requirements and follow-up should be reviewed. We also believe that support should not give migrants priority in the housing market. With those words, Madam President, I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation in the report.
i-GtUgPWjgv6SuXB9Ko3GMdx	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the civil committee's report No 25. The report deals with two letters from the government. One letter concerns the Swedish National Audit Office's report on support for municipalities for increased housing construction, and the second letter concerns the Swedish National Audit Office's report on support for renovation and energy efficiency. The report contains a reservation from the Swedish Democrats. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. Madam President, I would like In the part concerning support for energy efficiency, there are no motions or reservations, but I would like to start by commenting on the letter. There is today a great need for renovation and energy efficiency of the large stock of multi-family buildings. The need for renovation is particularly high in vulnerable districts around the country. This problem must be addressed by policy. The problem has existed for a long time, and that is one of the reasons why the previous government was processing aid in order to stimulate increased rehabilitation. The Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusion is that the support for renovation and energy efficiency has not been properly designed to contribute effectively to the housing and energy policy objectives. It is said, among other things, that the aid has been administratively cumbersome. The Government and I agree in part with the Swedish National Audit Office's observations, and we note that the search model and support have been complicated to some extent. However, we can also say that some form of rehabilitation aid is necessary. There is still an enormous need for renovation and rehabilitation in the stock today. We can see that people around the country are not able to renovate existing homes. It is important that we politicians at national level nevertheless see the need for rearmament so that all people have the opportunity to have a good place to live. If we look around the country today, we can see that there is a huge difference between municipalities. In some places it is a thriving housing market where homes are easy to renovate and where the calculations go together. In other places, we see that the housing stock is falling due. This is a responsibility that we politicians must take on. In some cities and some metropolitan regions, we can see the same challenges. There are neighbourhoods where homes are not renovated, and there we need to find political tools to get the renovations started. It is important that all politicians accept these challenges. The discussion about some kind of incentive is necessary in the future, although I think it is important to learn from the Swedish National Audit Office's report. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office's second report, which is discussed in the report, deals with support for municipalities for increased housing construction. The Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusions are that the support has not effectively stimulated an increase in housing construction in general or in the municipalities that have received new arrivals. Here, too, the Government agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office's observations that the support has been difficult to follow up, that it has been difficult to evaluate and that it has been difficult to see whether it has really stimulated housing construction everywhere among the municipalities that have received the support. But here, too, the government and I stress that support was actually important. The reason why the so-called construction bonus, the support, was introduced was that the government, together with the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats, landed in the need for support for the municipalities that took extra responsibility during the migration crisis. I would also like to point out that the support that existed has had a significant impact on a number of different areas. One of the most obvious effects is that many municipalities today have a housing supply plan. It was a requirement to apply for the support. A housing supply plan is an extremely important document for municipalities that may not have such a high level of migration but still want to be forward-looking in a future enlargement, and that is particularly important in those municipalities where there is an extremely active housing policy. I think that in future more municipalities would benefit from having an active discussion at their municipal council meetings on how to manage their housing supply. Let's look at what the housing supply looks like around the country. I can see that there is a huge difference between different municipalities. Some municipalities take a great responsibility. This was done before the aid existed, it was done during the time when the aid existed, and even now, after the aid has been phased out. In various ways, these municipalities are to be rewarded for taking responsibility for their citizens so that they can get a good place to live. At the same time, we can see other municipalities that do not take responsibility for housing issues. Here I hope that we in this House will be able to discuss together in the autumn how to ensure that all municipalities take responsibility for ensuring that people have good housing throughout our elongated country. With those words, I would like to thank the President and the other Members of this House and wish you a pleasant summer.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-339	Madam President, I would like Thank you for Johan Löfstrand's contribution to the debate. The budget proposal for 2017 shows the Government's view of the initiative: The Housing Act presents a major challenge for many municipalities, given the large number of new arrivals and the current housing situation. Against this background, there is a need to support the municipalities in their efforts to arrange housing for new arrivals. This is why, among other things, a bonus has been decided for municipalities that build new homes and receive new arrivals.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-342	Madam President, I would like Roger Hedlund asks me why the government prioritises giving money to the municipalities that build housing and to the municipalities that have received many new arrivals. Well, we are well aware that Sweden during these years had a large migration. To meet that challenge, we made a broad political agreement in which several parties took responsibility for a common migration policy. We also made sure to have a system that allowed everyone who came here to have a good place to live. To deal with this, we needed municipalities that took responsibility. The Housing Act was a way to get municipalities to take responsibility, but I want more municipalities to accept responsibility and have some kind of housing supply for everyone. Therefore, the government introduced this incentive. It depended on how many dwellings were built and whether the municipality received a larger proportion of new arrivals. I think it is perfectly reasonable that the municipalities that took extra responsibility during that period could also receive the extra stimulus. How the municipalities then use the stimulus has varied quite a lot, and that is what the National Audit Office criticises. I believe that most municipalities that received this stimulus used it to build new homes, and the new dwellings did not go very much to new arrivals. But it created more housing that people could demand in each municipality.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-347	Madam President, I would like The budget bill explicitly states that it is necessary to support the municipalities in their efforts to arrange residence for new arrivals. This appropriation of SEK 1 billion is meant to be used to provide housing for new arrivals. It should not therefore be used to arrange housing for the general purpose of all the Swedes, all the inhabitants of Sweden, who are currently suffering from the housing shortage that we see in the country. In 2016, for example, SEK 5 billion was allocated to housing policy support by the government, of which SEK 1 billion was to arrange for new arrivals to be settled. This shows the government's priority in housing policy and which groups are the important groups in housing policy. The question is also how the municipalities have interpreted this budget statement. Has it meant that we need to provide housing here – with reference also to the instruction law, which in practice is a housing guarantee for migrants? Have priority been provided in the housing queue? Have rent subsidies been increased to allow access to newly produced dwellings? We do not know because the government does not intend to investigate how this building bonus has been used. I think it is serious that we do not find out how the municipalities have actually used this money in view of what the government writes in the bill:
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-351	Madam President, I would like Roger Hedlund asks me if the purpose of the law was for the municipalities to arrange housing for new arrivals. Yes, the instruction law was based on the municipalities taking responsibility so that more individuals around this country would have a roof over their heads. So there was such a purpose. I think that's very important to point out. We wanted all municipalities to take responsibility in the crisis that Sweden was in then. But if you look at the design of the municipal bonus you can see that it had very little to do with creating and arranging housing. The municipal bonus was distributed, just as Roger Hedlund described earlier, based on how many homes were built and how many new arrivals the municipality received. But how the money was then used was the municipality's choice. They were widely used to help in new construction projects, and I think very few of the new homes went to new arrivals. Rather, they became part of the general log. In a way, Roger Hedlund is right – municipalities have taken great responsibility and given many newly arrived dwellings. But the municipal bonus has not created housing specifically for that group, but it has created more housing throughout the municipality. To conclude, I would like to note that the support that the government has put forward and that is now available for the construction of new rentals is not supported by the Swedish Democrats. I would be pleased to see what the housing policy of the Swedish Democrats in order to actually promote more housing for ordinary people looks like. But I am sure we will return to that debate this autumn.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-358	Madam President, I would like It is time to discuss a proposal that has come quite quickly. It is essential that we also act quickly, as we are in a pandemic. It is a proposal from the government for a new law on temporary disease control measures at catering sites. As we Christian Democrats see it, this is a necessary measure to be able to cope with the situation now that restrictions are relaxed. Let me start at that end. We have pointed out on previous occasions in letters to the Prime Minister that the day we need to ease restrictions in some way needs policy to be there and decide which option we choose, because whether we choose to reduce restrictions or keep them will have consequences. It has consequences for individuals, businesses and health care. That is why a political position must be adopted which one chooses. The government now chose to decide on its own to alleviate the restrictions, a difficult balance. I think it is reasonable to see that people need a chance to be out a little more and maybe travel something within the country and in that way feel that they have a little more time for recovery and relaxation. At the same time, we know that there is a risk to health care. Should the infection take off because we are unable to keep our distance and avoid congestion, then we are standing there again in an extremely difficult situation. It is important that everything we do now means that we can reduce congestion and thereby reduce the risk of infection so that we can manage the outcome of the pandemic in a good way. None of us know whether the curve will continue to go down or whether it will go up again. So far, it is true that, while waiting for a vaccine, physical distance is our only way to protect ourselves from the infection. It is probably the safest way along with vaccines, and therefore this law is necessary. We need to have supervision of serving places so that we can help each other and know what rules apply when organising serving and how to reduce the risk of crowding – i.e. one for the protection of both those who work there and those who are guests. The government's proposal is in many ways good, but the Christian Democrats' view is that it needs to be supplemented. That is why I would like to support reservation No 2. It is about the need to clarify the assessment bases to be used in supervision and in the drafting of regulations. It will, of course, be crucial for everyone who organises catering and is responsible for serving time that they know what applies, that they receive good advice from the authorities and that the advice is applicable to the business so that supervision is equivalent throughout the country. Although the government has made some adjustments to the bill after the referral, we Christian Democrats believe that this needs further clarification. It is also necessary to ensure that the protection of the disease is there to support the work so that it is done in the best possible way. I would like to mention another point here, namely that we would need a corresponding law for other activities. It is not part of this government proposal, but it would be wise if the government came back with similar guidelines for other activities where there is a risk of congestion, for example in ferry locations, in public transport and in many other places. We all try to do the best we can when it comes to physical distance, but we need the help of regulations that show the person responsible for the business what to do and how to do it. With this, I am in favour of reservation No 2, but we Christian Democrats are also in favour of our other reservations.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-368	Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemia has affected society in many different ways. None of us could foresee how the world would change when the first Corona reports began to come. This has meant that in a number of different areas we have taken a number of decisions to support healthcare, business, businesses, infrastructure, individuals and much more. Madam President, I am proud to belong to a party that has been constructive throughout this crisis in identifying difficult problems and finding quick solutions to them. In this way, on many issues, we have pushed the government before us and been a strong and constructive opposition. Madam President, I would like Today, the House is dealing with a new, temporary law on temporary anti-infection measures at catering points. Should we continue to be a society that trusts that each individual takes a great responsibility, certain control functions must still be in place if this does not happen. The operator must be responsible for taking certain measures to prevent the spread of covid-19. The proposal proposes that the municipal council responsible for environmental and health protection should exercise oversight and be able to give notice of the orders and prohibitions necessary for compliance with the law and regulations. These are powers that are lacking today. An important part of this is the support of the infectious pathologist. The bill states that the Board should be able to consult the CDC if necessary. We Moderates support this approach but believe that the proposal has some shortcomings. That is why we have written a follow-up motion in which we draw attention to these and put forward proposals for improvements. Madam President, I would like The proposals in the bill are a departure from the principle of responsibility in dealing with the protection of infection during pandemics, that is, the principle which says that the person responsible for an operation under normal conditions also has responsibility during a crisis. Sweden currently has 60 infectious diseases doctors. By way of comparison, Norway has 350 CDCs. In order to be at the same level, Sweden had to have 700 disease control doctors instead of 60 today. This is definitely something to consider in future Commissions and evaluations, in several ways. We point in our accompanying motion to the significant problem posed by this number. The municipalities do not have the expertise on the spread of infection and the protection of the disease of the responsible disease doctor. Among other things, we Moderates want the Government to carefully ensure that the doctor's competence, availability and responsibility are ensured, among other things, through continuous monitoring of the municipalities' upcoming way of carrying out supervision. We also support the Swedish Municipalities and Regions' observation that disease control assessments are not within the municipality's normal supervision and that clear support and clear assessment criteria need to be provided for this, something that my colleague Acko Ankarberg has just mentioned. Madam President, I would like We also see a need for a clearer definition of what is serving places, a clarification of the powers of the police regarding the enforcement of decisions under this temporary law and for ensuring that the increased costs involved in this law are taken by the state. The Government must ensure that the municipalities receive compensation corresponding to the actual costs of the now expanded supervisory activities. With these additions, Madam President, we are moderate in favour of this proposal. Of course, we support all our reservations, but we call for the winning approval of time only to reservation 1. I would like to take this opportunity to wish Mrs President and my colleagues in the committee pleasant midsummer.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-380	Madam President, I would like In normal times, Member of Parliament Per Ramhorn, who is responsible for these matters, would have been here. Instead, with a reduced parliament, I have the honour of preferring this. The Government's proposal A new Act on Temporary Disease Control Measures at Serving Sites has proposed that the operator of a Serving Site should take measures to reduce the spread of covid-19. The Government also proposes that the municipality should ensure compliance with the measures and should also issue injunctions and prohibitions where necessary. According to the proposal, the municipality should contact an infectious pathologist from time to time and where it is needed. The municipalities also receive some help from the county administrative boards with information and advice and from the Public Health Agency regarding regulations on infectious disease control measures. In Sweden we have not only far too long care queues but also a large shortage of health professionals. We also had that before this crisis. We have seen that the interest in working with disease protection has increased during the spring, but that does not help as there is a heavy shortage of infectious diseases doctors in Sweden. The problem of care queues and a shortage of staff is something that the government should have solved in the past. The proposal for a new law on temporary anti-infection measures at catering points once again demonstrates the slowness of the government. The Swedish Democrats believe that this will probably affect the municipalities' ability to handle the task of ensuring that the anti-infectious measures taken by restaurants are complied with. The proposal for a new law on temporary anti-infection measures at catering points should have come well in the past and had a more comprehensive holistic approach. Madam President, I would like The Public Health Agency has the coordinating responsibility for the protection of infection, and the disease control doctor has an important role to play. We see a point in municipalities taking greater responsibility for the supervision of catering sites, but it should never be forgotten that it is the government that remains highly responsible for the forthcoming process and the further steps that are needed forward. It is the Government that must ensure that supervision is carried out to a sufficient extent to check that the catering centres take the necessary measures to prevent the spread of infection and that this task is prioritised by the municipalities. It is important that the supervisory process is made simpler, clearer and more efficient. The Swedish Democrats are prepared to support the Government's proposal for a temporary departure from the principle of responsibility in dealing with infectious diseases. We can also see the relevance of transferring the responsibility for decisions in individual cases from the infectious pathologist to the municipality. Madam President, I would like However, I would like to point out once again that it is always the government that has the ultimate responsibility and that it is the government that should ensure that the pathologist has competence and is available. However, the government will also monitor how the municipalities implement the supervision. It is important that there are no unclear or doubtful wordings in the legislative text. The operator of a restaurant should not have to consider how the law should be interpreted. Essentially, it is clear which service points fall within the scope; otherwise, the law falls within the scope of legal certainty but also predictability. A hot dog kiosk or a Thai wagon with tables and chairs must know whether they are included in the scope or not. Municipalities must also be able to rely on them to receive the assistance and support they need from the Police Authority in connection with the exercise of supervision and enforcement of decisions under the law. The Government has designed the provision so that the Police Authority only has the power to give the supervisory authority access to a restaurant. This means that there is no possibility for the Police Authority to assist in the enforcement of decisions. The Swedish Democrats believe that it is necessary to review whether the powers of the Political Authority should be extended so that enforcement measures can also be assisted. Madam President, I would like With this law, municipalities will be given additional assignments. Many municipalities are already on their knees as a result of the state's overloading of municipalities in many areas. The state has promised to take extraordinary costs related to the efforts of the regions and municipalities around covid-19. The Swedish Democrats assume that the government will keep its word and that in this case the municipalities will receive compensation corresponding to the actual costs incurred by the Government's proposals. The Swedish Democrats support all our reservations but choose to apply only for reservation 3.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-392	Madam President, I would like Sweden's catering facilities and restaurateurs help to enhance joy in Sweden. They contribute by creating a culture where people can meet and socialise. They can sing together, have a glass of beer together, and maybe drink a glass of wine. I wish and hope that as many people as possible will have that opportunity this summer as well. But this summer will not be like ordinary summers. This summer we have a pandemic to fight. We need the help of Sweden's restaurateurs and pub owners to deal with the pandemic. I trust that most restaurateurs have reason enough to understand that this is a very special situation that we in Sweden are currently in. Madam President, I would like I come from the centre of the pandemic: Stockholm. Sometimes people criticize me because I talk too much about Stockholm, but I think that people as Stockholmers should also talk a little bit from their home country. We in Stockholm are very hard hit. I myself live at Södermalm, which is Stockholm's entertainment centre, and I can see how different restaurateurs on Södermalm have handled the pandemic in quite different ways. When I talk to my very good friend Mehmet, who runs a restaurant near Götgatan and Ringvägen, he is deeply concerned. He's had to send most of his staff home. His restaurant is empty. His business is bleeding, economically. But Mehmet says to me that at the same time he is pleased that Sweden has not gone as hard as other countries have. He can still have his restaurant open. Then Mehmet hopes that together we will be able to fight the pandemic and that we will be able to get out of this misery so that Mehmet's activities can flourish again. On the same Södermalm, just one kilometer further north, on Folkungagatan, there are three restaurants that, despite repeated requests from inspectors, chose to ignore the rules and recommendations regarding disease protection. It ended up with the infectious disease doctor in Stockholm County closing the three restaurants. The reason why I lift Mehmet and these three restaurants is that this testifies to the fact that it is very different restaurants that run operations. There are those who are serious. There are those who, unfortunately, do not have people's minds, to be clear. I see a need to increase supervision this summer. There will be more traveling around. There will be more people who want to have a glass of beer at the restaurant. Then it is important that we have supervision that works. I don't think there's enough work to do with a contagion doctor. In practice, much of this work must be done by the municipalities, and I believe that it is reasonable and proper to do as the government proposes: to strengthen the municipal responsibility for this issue temporarily this year. It is a question of combating congestion. It's about making sure people don't eat or drink standing up. It's about not standing in bars. The restaurants are by their very nature very different. There are restaurants located in gardens and parks, as well as restaurants located in basements. These are activities of a wide variety. This makes it difficult to regulate this area. But I am pleased to see that the government is still bringing forward ideas and wishes for the Public Health Agency to make further recommendations and clear recommendations. I also think it is wise that it is the Public Health Authority that makes the recommendations, because they may need to be changed during the journey. I want to say this in this context. The restaurant industry is important, but the restaurant industry and the catering industry have a particular responsibility to help at this difficult moment for Sweden. In these words, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-403	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking you for the beautiful and atmospheric memorial service that we had in this House earlier on for the victims of the coronapandemy. It felt great to be able to participate in it, like this on the last day of the parliamentary year. The Coronandem affects our entire society. Everybody needs to reset. Everyone has to face up to their responsibilities. All this must be done in order to reduce the spread of the virus and to combat it. We can say that this spring has certainly not been as spring usually is. Not least, restaurants, bars and cafés have had to take a variety of measures to continue to remain open. It is about removing buffet serving, reducing the number of seats, sparing out the tables so that people can keep their distance and remove bar serving. I know this is a trial time for everyone, but together we can get through this. All these measures are being taken with a single aim: to reduce the spread of the disease and nothing else. But crowding in restaurants, cafés and outdoor cafés has occurred despite the fact that distance should be kept. Only table service may be provided, and bar hangs have been banned under the coronapdemine. I know that everyone is making a huge effort and in every way trying to do the right thing, but it is not always that easy. Some restaurants have been closed, mainly in large cities, pending action. For example, it is about moving tables apart and letting in fewer guests to reduce the risk of contamination. If we are to do this together during the coming summer and holiday, when bars, restaurants and cafes are often popular destinations, we need to clarify who is responsible and what rules apply. We also need to simplify and streamline so that those who own and operate the restaurant, bar or café are more flexible and faster, but also for the municipality that supervises them. To date, the municipalities have been overseeing catering sites, while the region's infectious disease doctor has decided on temporary closure if there has been reason to do so. This has been delayed, since doctors are already heavily burdened by their medical assignments. According to the new bill, which the government is now proposing, the municipalities that exercise supervision are also given the power to issue the required injunctions and the possibility to temporarily close a server that does not comply with the law or regulations without connecting the infectious pathologist.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-412	The county administrative boards have been given the task of providing the municipalities in each county with support, advice and guidance in this work. It is precisely the assignment to the county boards that I think is important, because the municipalities are not used to doing this kind of work. It feels good that the county boards should be able to provide support and advice. I hope that in this way we will make it easier for both local authorities and businessmen to have clear and good communication on the rules and measures to be taken, so that we are not forced to take such drastic measures as closing down places. With this, I would like to thank you for all the work so far in committee. We do not have a summer break, but we continue our work. I would also like to say thank you to the President and support the committee's proposal.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-415	Madam President, I would like Winter and spring have been a difficult time for many. It has been particularly difficult for many restaurants. I've visited a lot of restaurants and talked to restaurant owners. They're on the verge of clapping the business. It is often family restaurants – you should be aware of that. We can then consider whether what we are now going to decide on is necessary. It's necessary. I still see restaurants in Stockholm that do not follow the rather simple rules that you should stick to. It is about that there should be distance between the parties, that orders should be made at the tables, that there should not be 300 people in a place where there should be a maximum of 50 people and so on. So this is needed. Madam President, I would like As Dag Larsson said, it looks very different. You cannot look between your fingers at the restaurants that do not comply with the rules, because then there will be an unhealthy competition. Covid-19 is a generally dangerous and socially dangerous disease. There is still fairly limited information about the virus and how the disease develops and is affected in different contexts. It is important to be able to act in the long term now and to avoid a second wave of contamination. We will not have that either during the summer or in the autumn. It's about what I do, what you do, what we all do, what bars do and what restaurants do. Anything to minimise the spread of infection must be done. It's all about people's minds. That is a fine word that I think we should take back, Madam President. Today, it is mainly the municipalities that exercise effective control over compliance with the regulations of the Public Health Agency at catering points. It is also the municipalities that are conducting a dialogue with the activities and the catering establishments. If they do not fix what the supervision says, the matter can be passed on to the region's infectious pathologist. That's what it looks like now. The current organisation is not optimal. It is about the spread of the epidemic specifically in such epicentres as Stockholm, which has been hit very hard by the pandemic. We need a regulation that will clarify what anti-infectious measures are to be taken and a sustainable supervision organisation with muscles. Of course, it is the operator of a service point who is responsible for taking measures to prevent dissemination. This is clear. The regulations to come must be as clear as possible so that traders know what to do to avoid contamination. This is extremely important. The regulations will cover different types of activities. There can be small cafes or large restaurants with different opening hours. It is inevitable that the municipalities, as the supervisory authority in the individual case, will have to decide whether the measures taken are sufficient. I have worked a lot in Stockholm's municipal politics and been close to a permit to serve and so on know that the competence will be in place. I'm convinced of that. The Public Health Authority shall be responsible for national supervisory guidance. That's great. The County Administrative Board shall provide such supervisory guidance in the county. It seems to be a functional line straight down. The guide can relieve infectious disease doctors. We don't have 700 of them. After the pandemic, many changes will also occur in terms of the number of infectious diseases doctors, but right now it is important to run along with the train and find measures that are functional. Against this background, I would like to support the committee's proposal. As almost the last speaker of this parliamentary term, I would also like to take the opportunity to talk four more hours about the policy of the Left Party. No, of course I will not, Madam President, but rather wish my colleagues in the committee a reasonably restful summer. We've all worked really hard, and I think we need some rest. I would also like to thank all the Presidents for this year. It's worked really well. I would also like to thank everyone who is working hard in health care and home care – anyone who does not know how long a vacation they can get or how the pandemic can affect their holiday – for the job they have done. If we prevail, there will be not only applause, but also decent working conditions and good wages.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-427	Madam President, I would like It has been a heavy and very difficult spring. In Sweden, nearly 5,000 people – loved ones – have died in covid-19. In the world, nearly 440 000 people have died. All spring we have worked day and night, not least in the Social Affairs Committee, to do everything we can to crisis manage our country and to ensure that as few people as possible are hit so hard that they go away. Today, Parliament is flying at half a pole, and everyone's Speaker Andreas Norlén gave a very dignified speech before the Swedish Parliament and before the people of Sweden in honour of those who have died. There were tears in the eyes of many. Mr President, I would like to It's been a very heavy spring, unlike everyone else. We've been working at home. We've been quarantined. We have avoided meeting our loved ones. We have longed and craved for grandmother and grandchildren. But we have kept a distance between ourselves and others' interests in order for us to collectively stop the pandemic, reduce pressure on health care and, most importantly, reduce the number of people most affected by the pandemic. Mr President, I would like to Summer's here. The number of contents of IVA is decreasing. The government has decided that it is free to travel in our country. But, my friends, this does not in any way mean that the danger is over. We must continue to keep the physical distance, not the social distance, because it can be handled differently. But the physical distance must be kept. Now that Sweden and some parts of the world are opening up again, we need to take measures that will make it easier for the business community to survive during the pandemic and for the restaurateurs to be able to get their visitors and that will also make it easier for them to keep up with the strict rules that the government has set up regarding physical distance. It is therefore important that we have taken the decision that municipalities should be responsible for ensuring that the regulations are maintained by traders. It is the municipalities that normally have this responsibility. It is those closest to the restaurateurs who have the transparency that those who sit further away do not have. It is also important for municipalities to be able to talk to infectious diseases doctors in order to get the information they think they need to make decisions. Above all, however, it is important that we keep the physical distance. Mr President, I would like to The pandemic does not take summer holidays, so so neither does the Social Affairs Committee. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues in the committee for their good cooperation. We've really worked really hard this spring. I want to wish everyone a wonderful and restful summer vacation and a happy midsummer. With these words, I call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-435	Honourable Members, both here in this House and around Sweden! We have a spring that doesn't look like anyone else behind us. The last few months have been so dramatic and eventful that it is easy to forget that when we gathered here in January everything was quite normal. The work of the committees progressed at the planned pace, and the plenary sessions went according to plan. In February, the Parliament was able to host the Youth Parliament, and at the beginning of March, we conducted a preparedness exercise in the framework of the Total Defence Exercise 2020, where the Members of the House faced a fictitious crisis scenario. Shortly thereafter, the real Corona crisis struck with full force. Suddenly R echoed the iksdagshuset, which normally simmers with life, empty and desolate. Almost as suddenly Skype became an inalienable companion in our daily work. Long - planned trips were cancelled at short notice, and visits from near and far were cancelled. The group leaders of the parties agreed that a maximum of 55 members would be present in the Chamber at voting time, but all members of the Riksdag have, of course, remained in office throughout this period. The committees changed their way of working, and many members started to connect to the meetings via phone or Skype. To maximize the physical distance, we moved the committee's adjustment meetings to the Skandia Hall and then the First Chamber Hall. Some of you, on Thursday mornings, have served in perhaps six or seven committees in close succession, with all that it means of planning, structure and preparation. Despite these various changes and the major challenges that we have faced as a parliament and as a country, Parliament has continued to fulfil its important tasks. Cases have continued to be prepared, debates have been held, decisions have been taken and the exercise of government power has been reviewed. We will shortly be dealing with the ninth supplementary amending budget with emergency measures. Overall, around twenty-fifths of cases related to the pandemic have been dealt with – many of them after very prompt handling. To name a number of examples, one of the extraordinary amending budgets came to Parliament on 17 March, and the Riksdag decided on 19 March – only two days later. I am full of admiration and gratitude for how you have all quickly settled in a new activity and in a new reality and done your duty to our country. Everyone has taken their share of responsibility so that the whole has been able to work. I wrote in my Easter letter that the members and officials of the Committee on Finance are this crisis, and I hope the rest of you will not be offended if I say that I think there is still a great deal to do with it. As you know, the Committee on Finance has met so often and so long that the committee has not been able to fit in with the rest of the scheduling. The Committee on Budgets has had a very heavy workload. Of course, other committees too have had a heavy workload. We have just taken a decision on another matter from the Committee on Social Affairs, which has also taken a heavy load this spring. Other committees have, of course, also had a heavy workload and had to deal with both their usual cases and those related to the pandemic. I am very grateful to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen! Since before, I have formulated three key words for my term of office: democracy, the committees and the long-term perspective. All these areas and perspectives have been affected by the Corona crisis. I have been asked on several occasions whether democracy is threatened by the coronapandemy. My answer has been that democracy in our country is not threatened. The Parliament has proved to be a master of this test. The content of parliamentary work has been basically the same. The data have been the same, but the forms have changed. It is very important that the Riksdag has been able to fulfil its tasks even in this crisis situation, both because the tasks themselves are important and because we have thereby shown the Swedish people and the outside world that the Riksdag can function even under difficult conditions. The parliamentary centenary of democracy, which goes on throughout the parliamentary term, has, of course, also been affected. Initially, planned openings of the hiking exhibition were cancelled out in the country. In recent times, however, we have also begun to rethink and rethink in this area. Last month in Sörmland we had a digital opening of the democracy exhibition. I feel that this is how many have acted in politics and in our society. From the beginning, you cancel, now you reset. Secondly, with regard to the committees, the pandemic has obviously had a major impact on the working methods. At the same time, however, I am very pleased that, in principle, all the planned dossiers have been prepared. Priority has, of course, been given to Corona-related matters, but also virtually all other matters that were intended for the Riksdag to handle this spring have been dealt with. It is a strength for our Parliament and for our democracy. When I participated with the committee chairmen in a digital workshop within the framework of the leadership development programme, several chairmen said something about this: we have done what we are supposed to do, but not in the way we would have liked. You lose something important when you're not seen physically. I believe that these comments contain two important observations. The first is that the very special spring 2020 will appear in retrospect as the real and final breakthrough for digital meetings. I believe that something that will persist in our work is that we will use digital forms of meeting to a much greater extent than before to hear experts from different parts of the country and the world and in many other contexts. For my part, I have been endowed with the epithet digital man after all these meetings. The second observation is that we still lose a dimension when we do not meet physically. The dialogue, the conversation, will not be the same at a digital meeting table as at a physical one. And we completely lose the possibility of informal meetings in the corridor or at the coffee machine. My pre-pandemic orientation was to work for the committees to become even more platforms for political discussions, and there, of course, the physical meeting is very important – the consultation over the committee table and the discussions in the corridors. I am therefore pleased that we have both learned more about digital meetings and that we have learned to miss the physical meetings. Both of these things are important. And I hope, of course, that we can get a return to normal as soon as possible in the everyday life of committees and parliaments. As far as long-termism is concerned, of course, it can be difficult to hold on to in a situation where a crisis needs to be dealt with quickly. At the same time, I am pleased that various development projects that the Swedish Parliament Administration is pushing to strengthen and develop the Riksdag in the long term have been able to continue. Project Members' House and other real estate projects are perhaps the most important. We had a slight delay in the construction work, but overall, the House of Members has been able to continue even under these special conditions. Another example is the investigation of the 2019 parliamentary review, which reviews important issues related to the membership mandate and provisions of the parliamentary order. Let me also mention that Parliament's administration is working intensively to increase our capacity for digital meetings. Some have already been done this spring and more will be done in the future. Of course, this must have a long-term perspective. The Riksdag should be able to work in different ways in the long term and to handle different challenging situations. In order to really pull out the long lines, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this spring is 300 years since the adoption of the 1720 form of government, the form of government of freedom. It contained several elements which then became formative and important for our democratic and parliamentary development. The Parliamentary Library has prepared a publication on this that will shortly be sent by e-mail to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen! We have a special spring behind us. Unfortunately, the time ahead is also uncertain. Parliament may need to be called in quickly during the summer. At present, we have no clear indication that meetings will be needed after 30 June, but that can of course change. I therefore ask you to stand by for this. It is important that Parliament can always act quickly, if the situation so requires, in a crisis situation such as this. Thanks to the Constitutional Committee's initiative to amend the parliamentary order, which comes into force today, this morning the House was able to decide that committees may allow remote participation in their meetings from now until otherwise announced. Thus, Members can now participate fully at a distance in the meetings of committees and also in decision-making. It is already clear that the opening of the Parliamentary Session in September will be different. The ceremony in this House will be as usual; it is important that it is recognised. But we will not be able to have anything but a few guests on site. There will be no mingle in the connecting track, and tonight's concert will be replaced by another solution. The group leaders and I will hold talks at the beginning of August on how many Members should be present during the opening. All Members will receive an invitation for constitutional reasons. Then the group leaders will decide what the actual presence should be. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to conclude by expressing my warm thanks to the Presidium of Presidents, the group leaders, the presiding committees and to each and every one of you members of the Swedish Parliament. With commitment, perseverance and determination, you have managed to keep the parliamentary democratic processes going, even though the external conditions have been difficult. I would also like to thank Parliamentary Director Ingvar Mattson and all members of Parliament's administration. Many in the administration have also drawn a very heavy load this spring. I am thinking, for example, of the crisis management group led by the Deputy Director of Parliament, the IT department, the security unit and the committee department, but also many, many others. During the past few weeks, the Director of Parliament and I have had 15 group Skype meetings with several hundred of Parliament's employees to create a picture of what it has been like to work in Parliament's administration this strange spring. The picture from these meetings is clear. Despite the difficulties, the administration's approximately 680 employees have been able to solve their tasks in an excellent way and with a good temper. A warm and sincere thank you to all employees for this! The party chancellors always play an important role in political work. This spring they have also had a very important role to play in collaborating with the Swedish Parliament Administration on the management of the Corona crisis. A warm thank you also to everyone in the Party chancellors! Ladies and gentlemen! The Parliament will meet several times during the remainder of June, but after that comes a summer. I trust that you will do your best to draw energy in the coming weeks, although the forms of summer practice will certainly differ from those we are all used to. The recommendation on social exclusion, for example, continues to apply. It is important that we and everyone else in Sweden continue to keep their distance. We should not expose our fellow human beings to risks and discomfort by being too close, by being squeezed, by acting irresponsiblely in queues and in other contexts. But of course we will still be out and enjoy all the beauty that a Swedish summer can offer. We are now in June with its bright summer evenings that never get dark before the sun rises again. Few capture it better than Harry Martinsson in the poem June Night. June night never happens, resembles most of a dewy day. The veil itself lifts up its twilight and is carried away in light seas. In these words, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all, after all, a sunny and fine summer. Take care of yourselves and take care of your loved ones! I'll see you later.
i-79e40cf1720a5bb0-470	Mr President, I would like to As an age president, it falls to me to thank Mr President. The rest of us have already been thanked and are grateful for that, but for a moment I would like to focus on the work of the President and the burden that Mr President has borne during the previous Parliamentary meeting. Not since the end of the Second World War have Sweden and the Swedish Parliament faced greater crisis and strain than this spring during the coronapandemy. The crisis situation has made great demands on the Riksdag to quickly adapt its work to the demands of the pandemic – with cooperation across all party boundaries. The number of members of votes has been concentrated on 55, the committees have adapted their meetings so that Parliament has been able to optimise its decision-making process and in the legislative work the time for legislation has been compressed into a few days, as the President said. The Parliament's work has been carried out with great support and unity in a difficult situation. However, this work would not have been done as well without the clear leadership of the President. For this we are grateful. As an event, on March 5, the Riksdag practiced in a total defence exercise precisely legislation in a threatening crisis situation. The exercise was almost immediately used. Just over a week later, the Riksdag changed its way of working in response to the pandemic. In this unique crisis, Mr President, the Parliament has been led in a very commendable way. I think that our constitution gives powers which the President must shoulder, and we are grateful that the President has done so. The Vice-Presidents have assisted and paid a substantial price in terms of being prepared. The chairman of the Committee and Members of Parliament have all drawn a heavy load, and we are grateful for that. But let us not end with the crisis this day. There is a future, a hope and a Swedish summer, as the President indicated. That is why I shall end by sending with Mr President and all of us a few words from Psalm 199. The flower time now comes with lust and mirage great. Now approaches lovely summer when grass and crop germinate. The gentle sun awakens all that was dead. It covers everything with greenery, and everything is reborn.
