i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-0	Madam President, I would like Mattias Karlsson in Luleå has asked me if I intend to take measures to give the police a clearer mission to counteract illegal taxi operations and better resources to control and prosecute these crimes. I would like to emphasise that all taxi operations should be carried out in accordance with the rules in force and that the existence of criminal activities is serious. The black economy withholds tax revenue, distorts competition and risks financing criminal activities. According to the Taxi Traffic Act, it is punishable to drive a taxi if the driver does not have a taxi driver's ID or does not have the right to temporarily practise the taxi driver's profession. It is also punishable to hire such a driver. It is also punishable if taxi services are operated without a permit. Several authorities have a responsibility in the control and supervision of taxi operations. The authorities' missions differ, but in order to overcome the cheating, they need to cooperate. The Government's expansion of the Police Authority is continuing. The number of employees in the agency has increased by around 3,500 on the way to the target of 10,000 more to 2024. Annually, the Police Authority carries out many checks on traffic, taxi and other professional traffic throughout the country. The problem of illegal taxi operations is well known, but for that matter it is not easy to reveal. In cases where the police authorities suspect such crime, an investigation is initiated, but in many cases it may be difficult to get to trial. In recent years, the government has taken a number of decisions to promote healthy competition in the taxi industry and to combat cheating. It is also important to strengthen the control of the rules. The Government has therefore assigned a special investigator to strengthen the control activities of taxi services, among other things. The investigator shall propose improvement measures and a proposal for a single organisational form for control activities. The investigation shall report on its mission by 1 March 2021 at the latest.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-6	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Home Affairs for his reply. The Minister states that several authorities are responsible for the control and supervision of taxi operations, and that is true. The Swedish Transport Agency has a supervisory responsibility, and the Swedish Tax Agency works with monitoring compliance with the tax legislation. But the basis for their work lies in the fact that there is a police presence in reality. Already in the report on Economic crime in the taxi industry, presented in 2004, the National Police Board of Sweden stated that considerable efforts are needed by the judiciary to prosecute the black taxi business. It also pointed to the need for collaboration with, among other things, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the unemployment funds. The question is whether this 16 years later is implemented. Do we have effective supervision? Is cooperation sufficiently effective to address the problems? The problems we see in the taxi industry today indicate that this is not the case. Greater police presence is needed on the ground to enable the police and other authorities to carry out supervision and control which, in terms of efficiency and scope, creates conditions for healthy competition in the industry. Without police officers with knowledge and experience of the field industry, effective control cannot be carried out. The regulations for the Swedish Transport Agency, the Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Tax Agency mention taxis not once and nothing about the importance of control, cooperation and supervision in the taxi industry. That says some things about the government's assessment of how high a priority this is. Unless the government identifies this as a priority area, it is not surprising that the authorities are not acting. A clearer priority is needed. The investigation expressed the need to create a feeling within the industry that anyone who violates the rules in force is at risk of being exposed and punished. Unfortunately, the situation does not seem to be the same today. Unless the authorities, in particular the police, are given the task of prioritising the issue, this is unlikely to change. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister about the investigation he raised in his reply, the one set up with regard to control activities in the field of professional transport. The directives for that investigation do not show that illegal taxis, i.e. black taxis, are covered by the investigator's mandate. Is it the Minister's view that the investigation should cover the control of illegal taxis?
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-14	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the last question. Yes, that is my firm opinion. We have set up an investigation to review the control activities of professional road traffic, including the control activities of taxi services. If you are to manage this control, you must also check what is not taxiing, i.e. get rid of the problems that exist with black taxi operations in Sweden. The investigator will propose, among other things, measures that could involve new ways of working, more efficient use of technical opportunities, increased coordination of authorities and more exchange of information. This may involve the work of several authorities. It is an important part of taking a holistic approach to this but also creating a more effective control function for professional traffic in Sweden. This is only part of what the government has done to create order on the roads in Sweden but also in Europe. The police have an important role to play in this. I still get a little curious about what the interpellier thinks the police should do more. Of course the police are doing checks today. However, if we do not have other ways of dealing with this industry than just police investigation and reconnaissance, I think it will be a rather ineffective job, because today the legislation is basically designed so that it is not enough for the police to suspect some form of black taxi activity. You almost have to see the payment, and in this case neither the taxi driver nor the customer is inclined to help or assist in the work. In some way, proof of a transaction has to be secured, which is quite complicated. It is possible to do so when you have real evidence and see that it is commonplace. Then you can do it. But we need to think about what the system looks like. What other control functions do we have? What other alarm signals are there? I would therefore like to commend the Tax Authority, which has now taken the initiative to review illegal taxi operations in social media. There are quite large Facebook groups and other things that today invite to black taxi operations. I am not sure that everyone who participates in the groups is fully aware that that is what they are doing, but still. Then there are fairly quick ways to access revenue streams but also opportunities to decide on increased tax and tax surcharges and, in more serious cases, to report tax offences. We need to get to the illegality in a number of ways. The reason I asked the question about the police's possibilities was that I was happy to get this interpellation from the Moderates. I understand that you have pushed the debate in a different direction. The last time we discussed sharing economy, you exercised that you wanted to promote the sharing economy in the taxi industry: I have not heard a taxi representative say that it sounds like a great idea to get to the black taxi business. If we are serious about solving this problem, we must also be clear that it is precisely this type of service that is currently used for black taxi operations in Sweden. If we are to tackle this crime, we must ensure that the serious taxi owners – who are the majority of all taxi owners in Sweden and who are trying to manage themselves, pay taxes and comply with regulations – are not pushed away or competed by illegal initiatives alongside. I am prepared to ensure that the police continue to grow with more resources, although I think that the police should primarily decide for themselves how resources and activities should be prioritised. The IRS is doing its review of the internet. We also have the policy group, which in particular the taxi industry itself has taken the initiative together with several authorities to work on the issue. We also have the investigation.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-23	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for making it clear that the investigation currently under way should also cover the control of illegal taxis. Then I think it's about the police getting a national assignment. We have examples that the police have made impact and really focused on getting access to illegal taxis. That's where you do it every time. It has been extremely successful in making these approaches a priority. I think it is important that the police can get a national mission to prioritise this, which is so extremely important. The Swedish taxi industry has for a long time been threatened by this unhealthy competition due to cheating with taxes and subsidies. This has largely influenced the conditions of competition in the market but also the general picture of the taxi industry as such. An offensive effort against old forms of black taxi and the rapid development of social media has led the illegal taxi to find new ways to meet its customers. Contacts between drivers and customers have moved to social media groups, and settlements on payment are made via mobile phones. The development of black taxis is a serious threat to the serious taxi industry. In small and medium-sized towns in particular, serious taxi companies are increasingly difficult to survive today because of the competition from black taxis via social media, among other things. This is particularly serious for the taxi industry as it is characterised by small margins and high costs in the form of taxes and charges. Apart from the devastating consequences of black taxis for serious taxi companies, the phenomenon of non-payment of taxes and charges affects all publicly funded activities. Widespread acceptance and use of black taxis can help to reduce confidence in the tax system as a whole. In this context, it is obviously important, if not necessary, with the efforts and cooperation of all the authorities involved. I believe that one way is to examine the economy of these individuals or companies, but it does not affect the fact that the issue must also be dealt with as a police matter. Police action will be needed to overcome the problem, and the question remains: What is the government doing to ensure that the police work on this priority area?
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-30	Madam President, I would like The most important thing we do when it comes to the police is to expand it vigorously. We are continuing the expansion that has led to approximately 3 500 more employees today than when we started the expansion. We're on our way to 10,000. Over the past two years we have received 700 more police officers in Sweden, and the number will continue to grow every six months. This will be most noticeable in rural areas when there are more people in blue uniforms who can relieve and make the efforts that have not really been prioritised or made. As Minister of the Interior, however, I am quite careful not to constantly go in and decide what the police should work with. I expect the police to do their job and focus on organised crime, for example. This kind of illegal taxi activity can to a large extent have elements of organised crime. This is a large amount of money. It also knocks out white industries. I think the police are usually best placed to decide which type of crime should be prioritised and when. In addition to the investment in the police, the government continues to make great efforts to get order in the industry. The Tax Agency's review is interesting, as is the investigation into control activities. I also believe that there is another political responsibility – unfortunately, our parties do not always share the same view here. It is about the procurement of taxi services, which is a hugely important base for serious taxi operations. Our party has often pushed the demand for collective agreements in procurement so that we increase the level and control of the industry and do not allow the less serious taxi companies to go free-riding through tax money and public procurement. This is an incredibly important issue when it comes to steering the sector in the right direction in the long term. I would like to ask a question before the interpellation debate is over: what do the Moderates mean by your view that it is important for the sharing economy to be allowed into the taxi industry? I think we should really consider whether this is the wisest way of meeting these developments. It is clear that digital apps are being used. There is not a taxi company where you cannot book your taxi via the internet or various technical services. That is good; it makes it easier for everyone to do the right thing in these contexts. But can you explain what the Moderates think needs to be developed precisely as regards the sharing economy and the taxi industry? I see huge risks in letting this go further without having a really good idea of what it will mean.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-35	Madam President, I would like I believe that the Minister for the Interior is now trying to give the impression that taxi drivers who do not have collective agreements but are serious in general and have a professional licence do not pay taxes or have a licence to operate professional or passenger transport, or that the sharing economy would by definition be about this. It is to express oneself extremely clumsy. We are talking about illegal taxi operations, which do not comply with any rules or pay any taxes or charges at all. As a result, competition from black taxis not only damages the individual taxi driver's ability to make a living, but also affects access to school transport, transport services and call-in public transport, as fewer serious taxi companies survive. The entire existence of these taxi companies is based on revenues from both procured community-paid trips and ordinary taxi trips. A healthy and sustainable taxi industry is important for Sweden as a whole to have good access to mobility. This is particularly true where the supply of other public transport services is weak. For many older people who, for various reasons, are unable to have their own car but must have taxis or community-paid taxis, this is a prerequisite for a working life. But even where there is public transport, taxis are important as enablers to get to and from the nodes of large-scale public transport. The fact that the black economy is allowed to survive at the expense of serious taxi companies is a serious threat to the whole industry.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-39	Madam President, I would like I want to start with the last one. We really share the view that an unserious taxi sector is challenging the serious taxi rides. They do not pay taxes and do not follow the rules, and they are competing out companies that are very important on the ground for business and community services to function. Taxi operations are an important part of the transport sector in Sweden. This is not an area for which we are ashamed. We've really started to sort this out. The whole transport sector was the Wild West. There was an unhemly belief that the market alone and without control or regulation would solve the problems of the transport sector. This led us to flag out large parts of the Swedish transport industry. The liberal ideas that there was no need for control in this area were a mistake. We're expanding the police. The IRS controls this. We have an investigation into how better to check that there is order and order throughout the transport sector. We take this very seriously. However, I really want to warn the taxi industry, because I did not hear any good arguments for why the sharing economy should be allowed into the taxi industry. How should a serious taxi owner exploit the collaborative economy? Then you use taxi services, not sharing services. I think the Moderates need to think this through if you don't want to put your legs away for serious taxi rides around Sweden.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-43	Madam President, I would like Maria Stenergard has asked me whether I intend to make demands on recipient countries of aid to receive them from their citizens who are to be expelled from Sweden if they want to continue to receive Swedish aid. Let us remind ourselves that the primary objective of Swedish international development cooperation, as established by the Riksdag, is to create the conditions for better living conditions for people living in poverty and oppression. The government believes that support should mainly go to the least developed countries, where poverty is most widespread. In independent reviews, for example by OECD-Dac, Swedish development cooperation is considered world-class, and Sweden is praised for being a skilled, result-oriented and effective aid actor. However, Swedish development cooperation is not generally conditional. On the contrary, through our international development cooperation, the government clearly stands up for rights issues and consistently upholds aid policy principles. Swedish aid is based on values that are fundamental to Swedish government – democracy, fundamental rights and freedoms, openness and transparency – and protects local ownership. The government acts when developments are going in the wrong direction. The 2020 budget bill explicitly states that, as a starting point, support for the state should be reduced in the event of negative developments in human rights and democracy. In view of the negative developments in respect for human rights and democratic space, for example, the government recently decided to reduce aid to Tanzania. Instead, Sweden will work more selectively with the Tanzanian state in areas where it is necessary to make a difference for the poorest. At the same time, we are increasing support for civil society and private actors in order to strengthen democratic development. I would also like to remind you that the majority of Swedish bilateral aid is not so-called state-to-state aid but goes to actors and cooperation outside the state. Against this background, the Government considers that a general requirement for the readmission of citizens in order for a partner country to continue to receive Swedish aid is neither effective nor effective development cooperation. To conclude, I would like to point out that, in order to maintain a humane, legally secure and sustainable asylum policy, those who, after a legal review for their asylum reasons, have received a refusal decision must return as quickly as possible. The government will continue to work on return issues, including through dialogue with beneficiary countries and continued support for return efforts at EU level. It's a work led by the Justice Department.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-51	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. For a long time Sweden has had high levels of immigration and low levels of integration. A yes hasn't always been a yes. Anyone who has been told that it can stay should not only be welcomed within our borders but welcomed into Swedish society for real. As soon as possible you should learn the language and be able to stand on your own feet. But in Sweden a yes has become a well. Too many children do not learn Swedish. There are exclusion areas where not even half of the ninth grades are approved in the subjects they need to be able to read further. Children inherit their parents'alienation and sense of hopelessness. Honorary oppression limits and threatens. People do not have the opportunity to grow to their full potential. It is devastating for the individual but also for society. Similarly, a ‘no' must also be a clear ‘no' for those who have received a decision rejecting their asylum application in an orderly process. As the Minister points out, effective return is a prerequisite for a humane, legally secure and sustainable asylum policy. But in Sweden, a no has also become a nja. Only a few weeks ago, Government Delmi pointed to the shortcomings in Swedish return work. Too many people go underground, too many decisions cannot be implemented, and Sweden sends double signals through track changes and high school teams. We now need to push for better integration to give people a real chance to enter Sweden and create a new future here. But we also need to take a strong stance on a better return, so that the person who has been rejected does indeed return. The Moderates have proposed a number of measures, including extended limitation periods for asylum cases, that only emergency assistance and emergency care should be provided to persons residing in Sweden without a permit and that more resources should be allocated to the custody of the Migration Agency. Unfortunately, less than half of those who return voluntarily after a rejection decision are today. In many cases, however, forced expulsion is made more difficult by the fact that the recipient countries refuse to accept their own citizens when the return is not voluntary but forced. The head of the Border Police Section Patrik Engström recently said to Dagens Nyheter:中 Our assessment is that the police have exhausted the possibilities of a non-voluntary return to these countries. It is now a matter of diplomacy and politics. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like Swedish aid is incredibly important for combating poverty and poverty and for promoting democracy and human rights. But all our international commitments should take their starting point in and protect our Swedish interests and values. It is in this interest to maintain regulated immigration and that a person who has received an expulsion decision should also leave Sweden. Both the Migration Agency and the Police Authority point out that the execution to a number of countries is made more difficult by countries refusing to accept their own citizens. These are countries that receive assistance from Sweden at the same time. Sweden should, I believe, and the Moderates, use all available means to ensure that a no is really a no. This is the background to my interpellation. Unfortunately, the Minister's answer is clear: the government is not prepared to use aid as a means of putting pressure on those countries that do not want to take back their citizens. The border police say they can't do more and that it's up to us in politics. How does the Minister for Development want to explain to the border police that they refuse to act?
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-63	Madam President, I would like Aid policy is an area which has been left far too little room for manoeuvre in the political debate, especially given how much money we spend on aid. I think many people are behind the principle that we in Sweden should take responsibility and do what we can for people in need in a troubled environment, but I also think that many people ask themselves the question: Do we really know what we get for the money? And at the same time, we have very big problems here at home. The Moderates welcome a development policy debate, and we want to reform and prioritise aid. We see that there are several built-in system errors in aid that we believe need to be addressed and changed in order for aid to be better and for it not to be needed one day. Because that is, of course, the goal, that we should go from aid to trade. In the foreign policy debate last week, I had reason to quote a heading from the leadership of the DN on aid. It said:.It is not help for self-help if it never ends. Of course, our aid policy should be aid to self-help, and if it is, it also means that aid will one day have to end. As a result of the 1% payment target, we are spending almost twice as much money today on international aid as on the police, that it is more important how much money we spend than what result we achieve, and that, at the end of each year, large payments must be made to the UN system in order to reach the correct amount of money spent on aid. Aid cannot be a policy area aimed at calming our own bad conscience, but, like all other policies, it must be evaluated on the basis of its results. Goodness cannot be measured in the money spent but in actual results. We Moderates think that Sweden's commitment to the world must be seen as a whole. All our international commitments should take their starting point in and protect Swedish interests and values. It may be that we are making demands for change in areas such as gender equality, corruption and human rights. It is important that Sweden has a clear sanction function in aid if aid is really to achieve its aim of promoting democratic values. Why would a regime change if there is no consequence in continuing on the same track? In Swedish interests, it is also to maintain regulated immigration and that a person who has received an expulsion order should leave Sweden. Both the Migration Agency and the Police Authority point out that enforcement is made more difficult by a number of countries refusing to accept their own citizens. Madam President, I would like The question raised in the interpellation is important in principle. Sweden has a shared responsibility for a broken environment but the whole responsibility for our problems and challenges at home. If a country, by not helping to receive its own citizens, is involved in creating a growing shadow society in Sweden, it is reasonable for Sweden to reconsider its aid to that country. I am convinced that most people think it is perfectly reasonable and that it is strange that it is not already happening. In his reply, the Minister for Development mentioned that in order to maintain a humane, legally secure and sustainable asylum policy, those who have been rejected must leave Sweden as soon as possible. The consequence of this is at the heart of this interpellation debate. If a country to which Sweden provides aid does not contribute, but, on the contrary, opposes it, I wonder: Is it not reasonable for Sweden to reconsider its aid?
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-75	Madam President, I would like The aid debate or the interpellation debate is interesting and concerns an important subject. I can say that we in Sweden and the Swedish Government have done a great deal about return and strengthening the possibilities of using coercive measures in the case of refugees who have been refused their asylum application and who are to return to their home countries. Today, there are not so many countries with which we have problems in this area. For example, we have an agreement with Morocco. That's where it's changed a lot. We have an agreement with Afghanistan, which has been a country of concern in this regard. The countries that remain today and with which we have problems in this regard are closest to Somalia, Iraq and Iran. It is not the large proportion of our aid countries that this concerns. As far as Somalia and Iraq are concerned, these are quite specific and problematic situations. They are fragile governments, and they have lived with civil wars and wars with the outside world for many years. Somalia has been a disaster country. Today there are 2.6 million Somalis living as refugees in their own country. The government is working, and there is hope that there will be an improvement in this area. However, there is much left before we find ourselves in a situation where Somalia is a country like everyone else, where there are functioning social institutions and where there is stable development with peace and freedom. As far as Iraq is concerned, we also know that they have lived in war for many years. Since Syria's war situation in Syria, large parts of Iraq have also been involved in war, and there is a very difficult situation to deal with. The third country, Iran, we have no bilateral aid for. I do not think that this issue is relevant or applicable at all. Magdalena Schröder addresses the general issue of Swedish aid. It is a story that she tells us: that we have so much aid in Sweden that we do not know what the money should go to. It's the other way around. We have great problems coping with the major challenges that exist in the world. Swedish aid has unfortunately decreased in value as the krona has fallen in value. We are not at all easy to meet the enormous challenges. There are over 70 million refugees in the world. Over 100 million people need humanitarian aid. And a number of countries, especially in southern Africa, are facing major challenges. The situation has also worsened in recent years. In addition, there are environmental and climate challenges in the world around us that we must try to help cope with. It is of course also of Swedish interest to manage it.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-82	Madam President, I would like Swedish aid must also work in Swedish interests. And it is obviously in Sweden's interest to maintain regulated immigration and to ensure that every tax chandelier does the greatest possible benefit. Take Iraq as an example, as the Minister mentioned. It is often highlighted as a country where it is difficult to bring people back to because Iraq does not accept its own citizens. Sweden's strategy for development cooperation with Iraq during the period 2017 – 2021 comprises SEK 1 billion and aims to contribute to a peaceful society, respect for human rights and gender equality. But it is a human right to return to their country of citizenship, according to the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. When Iraq refuses to receive its citizens, who are expelled from Sweden by the police, it is contrary to international law. Although Swedish aid does not go to Iraq through direct budget support, it is indirectly an aid to the Iraqi state, as it does not have to take costs that Sweden's taxpayers have to take instead. I realise that these issues are genuinely difficult, but we must dare to touch on them. A person from Iraq, Iran, Somalia or Lebanon who refuses to cooperate with Swedish authorities and refuses to leave the country will remain in Sweden without a residence permit and without a right to housing or financial compensation from the Migration Agency. He or she becomes part of an ever-growing shadow society and is in danger of being in very bad danger and becoming socially vulnerable, in undeclared work and in crime. And this shadow society is just growing. A few years ago it was estimated that 50 000 people lived in the shadow society in Sweden without permission. We know that between 2014 and 2018, 140 000 people would have left the country, but only 70 000 did. Where the other 70 grand went, we can only guess. This is something that the government cannot possibly be satisfied with. As I said, I am not saying that there is a simple solution, but I argue that all solutions must be taken into account. Then continuing to send aid to countries that do not cooperate sends out completely the wrong signals. The Minister is trying to reduce the scope of Swedish aid to these countries. For example, Openaid says that Somalia is the third largest country in terms of Swedish bilateral aid. If we do not use our means of exerting pressure to get Somalia to assume its responsibilities for its own citizens, but also towards Sweden, I do not think we see the problem of return. We risk undermining confidence in the Swedish asylum system, and that is extremely serious.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-90	Madam President, I would like Let me just clarify a few things. The Moderates want Sweden to have a great commitment to a better world, which makes a real difference. The results are the important thing, not the exact amount of money spent. Therefore, priority and focus must be given to aid. You have to see the problems in the world, but you also have to see the problems here at home. I respect the fact that these are difficult issues, and that is perhaps not the way to freeze all aid to a country that does not accept its own citizens. Sweden sometimes provides assistance to opposition forces in corrupt countries, as human rights defenders who work for change and for democracy and human rights. The governments of these countries would only have been happy if Sweden had frozen the aid to those forces. Perhaps that is not where to begin, but the issue we are debating now concerns the principle. Precisely how it should be and which countries and what aid it should apply must be decided on a case-by-case basis. It's about what's effective. This is again about the principle: Should Sweden's taxpayers pay for public services in a country that through its actions is involved in creating problems in Sweden? Madam President, I would like That shouldn't be a difficult question to answer.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-96	Madam President, I would like Of course, you can talk about principles. But you can also talk about people, and what is the goal of Swedish aid is about reducing poverty and oppression in the world. It is the Riksdag that has set that goal, and that is the goal that the government and Sida are trying to uphold. Then we have other departments that work with questions about migration and refugees that have come to Sweden, and that is a completely different task. I think it may be important to keep these tasks separate, but the Moderates no longer want to do so. They prefer to talk about the aid working in Swedish interests and that we should use the aid for completely different things than the goals set by the Riksdag. In addition, we will slaughter the aid to the extent by significantly reducing it. It is about a completely different policy that the Moderates now market. With regard to the issue of readmission and the fact that countries are to receive their citizens who have been rejected on their asylum application, I would like to say that it is not the case that the Swedish Government does not care about this issue. We work very much on this issue in the Swedish Government. If we compare with the countries of the European Union, we have a much higher return rate for those who have not received asylum approval than the average within the European Union. About two thirds of those who are rejected here return, while the EU average is less than half. I think that those who are rejected should return home. There's no doubt about it. But there are some countries where we have challenges to overcome, such as countries that have been in war and conflict and are still very fragile and have major problems. This must also be taken into account when discussing these issues. In these cases, Sweden is conducting a dialogue about trying to get an agreement. I just don't think it's a good idea with a general principle linking return to Swedish aid. Especially when you see that this affects only a very small number of the aid countries that we are working with, it is perhaps wrong to make that link in general. How are we going to strengthen and work on this? How are we going to get more agreements in this area? Perhaps it is rather something that should be discussed with the Ministry of Justice. Democracy fighters in different countries are working for peace and freedom and for strengthening democracy and development so that people can live a decent life in these countries. By building up states and societies that work, we can therefore also make international agreements with those governments.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-102	Madam President, I would like I think that if only a few countries are concerned, it is probably much easier to proceed with such measures towards these countries. Nevertheless, I must call for some sort of calm in the debate. In 20 years, Swedish aid has tripled. In the future, the Moderates want to see SEK 42.5 billion in aid per year. I find it remarkable that the Minister calls it a slaughter of aid. As my colleague, Magdalena Schröder, pointed out, an assessment must, of course, be made in the individual cases. As the Minister says, there may be cases where it is absolutely compatible with Swedish interests to continue to provide aid to a country even though they do not take back their citizens, for example when aid goes to opposition forces working for democracy in that country. However, if Sweden refuses even to do that test, I can only say that it does not actually see the problems of return. You do not see the problems with taxpayers' money going to countries that actively oppose Sweden's interests. You don't listen to the research, you don't listen to the Migration Agency and you don't listen to the border police. Can we really look the taxpayers in the eye, I wonder, if we are not prepared to turn over every stone to use the money in the best possible way? I personally think it would be very difficult.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-107	Madam President, I would like I would like to note that I have not said at any time that we are not working on trying to reach an agreement with the countries we are discussing. There are such discussions. But there is also a need for a counterparty that works to be able to make such an agreement. It is not self-evident that aid for humanitarian aid should be stopped or that the institutions should be strengthened to make it a functioning society in order to try to force such an agreement. I'm not sure it'll help. It is also the case that in several of the countries we are talking about, referrals are one of the most important incomes for relatives, friends and families. It is often sensitive to pursue such a thing publicly and for the government to make such a commitment when the country is in a disaster, both economic and security policy. Therefore, it may not be a good idea to take general decisions on an issue that affects only a few countries that are in an extremely vulnerable and fragile situation.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-110	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked me why there are no impact and country evaluations of democracy aid as well as whether the drive for democracy involves any new working methods. Ludvig Aspling also asks whether parliamentary support for Zimbabwe has resulted in a new law against child marriage. Almost half of the world's population lives in countries where democracy has stepped back in the last five years. Through our development policy and foreign policy, we shall do what we can to protect, defend and develop democracy in the world. Ludvig Aspling claims that the government chooses to abolish what is known as the impact as the essence in the accounts of democracy aid. That's not true at all. Neither the follow-up nor the evaluation have changed. Nor has any evaluation of the impact of democratic aid been removed. All activities in the field of democracy are monitored on an ongoing basis as in other thematic areas. Evaluations are carried out strategically. In addition, S verige supports research and more in-depth analysis and evaluation. We have therefore not dropped anything, but are continuing as we usually do in this area. The Government conducts development cooperation with a consistent focus on results. It will create real and sustainable change for women, men, girls and boys living in poverty and oppression. Sida's development cooperation is continuously evaluated both internally at the agency and by external evaluators. In addition, the assistance is evaluated and analysed by the Expert Group on Aid Analysis, EBA, which is an independent actor. In recent years, EBA has conducted several studies in the area of democracy, including an evaluation of 20 years of Swedish democracy support to Cambodia. One of EBA's ongoing studies evaluates the impact of Swedish and international democracy support for a longer period, from 1995 to 2017. We have for some time changed the structure of aid to Cambodia. We have gone from cooperation with the state to supporting civil society to a greater extent, which has proved crucial for some of the pro-democratic forces to continue to operate in the country. In the evaluation you can read that Swedish aid has provided significant added value in terms of five basic features: bottom-up processes, growth of independent civil society, mobilisation at grassroots level/ popular participation, educational level and political awareness. It is important to bear in mind that development cooperation is carried out in contexts that are very different, not least in terms of democratic development. Land evaluations, such as the one on Cambodia, can increase our understanding of what makes a difference. I would also like to emphasise the need for both quantitative and qualitative monitoring. Quantitative data has the advantage of being more precise and facilitating comparisons, but far from everything can be captured in numbers. What the research shows, as Sida recently stated in a letter to the government, is that there is a positive effect of democracy aid on democracy development. The democratic drive that the government is now undertaking involves new activities, initiatives, channels and partners. Our commitment to democracy means that we are involved and contribute where we see an opportunity for democracy to move forward. In countries such as Ethiopia, Ukraine and Armenia, we have increased our support to contribute to positive development. This is done in the light of the reports provided by the embassy, but also in the light of what other actors on the ground, such as the EU, the World Bank and the UN, report on. The working methods currently in place in the field of aid are both good and effective, but improvements can and must always be sought. Last summer, the Government commissioned Sida to review how the agency can develop and strengthen the work to promote democracy through development cooperation. Sida has submitted a letter in response, and the government is now looking at how we will take this work further. In addition to Sida's programmes and projects, the democracy initiative consists of a comprehensive diplomatic and political commitment from our embassies and from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs as well as impact on a number of central organisations within the UN and other parts of the multilateral system. The Swedish support for the UN Development Programme's capacity building efforts for Zimbabwe's parliament was aimed, among other things, at implementing and adapting legislation in accordance with the country's 2013 Constitution. The support has helped to ensure that a number of recommendations from Parliament's various committees were heard in the work on the general budget in 2017, including on the issue of making child marriage illegal. The work led, among other things, to a draft legislative proposal, which has not yet been adopted. Therefore, despite a precedent from the Constitutional Court which states that marriages under the age of 18 are not permitted, children's marriages continue to occur in Zimbabwe.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-124	Madam President, I would like If it had been the case that we could have made a transfer of money to civil society or to the regime in non-democratic countries and in a way could have made them more democratic, we would of course have said yes to that. So this debate is not about whether the idea of democracy in developing countries is possible or desirable, for we naturally agree with that. What we are opposed to in the area of democracy aid is how it is marketed and how it is presented and, above all, the naivety that the government shows in what methods it chooses to promote democracy. According to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' political strategy, democracy assistance will improve the following areas: democratic principles, civic participation, enjoyment of human rights, representativeness, separation of powers, a functioning judicial system, free media, independent institutions, equality and social inclusion. This sounds fantastic, but if you scrape a bit on the surface and read Sida's results reports, you can quickly see that this marketing is based on optimism at best that borders on stupidity. First of all, there is no systematic impact assessment in Sida's annual report. By impact assessment, I mean an assessment of the concrete impact that democracy aid has had on society. It says things like that an election observation mission has contributed to the conditions for improved electoral processes. A real impact assessment had in this case examined whether the electoral processes were getting better, but they have chosen not to do so. Such things can actually be measured. Secondly, there is no explanation of how certain activities contribute to the purpose at all. For me, it is far from obvious how dance, theatre, film and storytelling festivals will improve democracy in the Middle East. I would like to know how this is connected, but there is no such explanation either. Thirdly, the report contains mere errors, such as the fact that Swedish parliamentary support to Zimbabwe would have contributed to a ban on child marriage. This is not true. Fourthly, there is no account of how aid affects the beneficiary countries' democracy index in the slightly wider perspective. I think this is a very interesting question. For example, you could use The Economist's Democracy Index and measure how much money you invest in aid and democracy efforts in different countries and how much the democracy index changes. There is no such review either. If such a review were carried out, we would see that the countries that receive a great deal of support for democracy – not only from Sweden but also from the EU – do not seem to be becoming much more democratic. For example, in the countries of the Eastern Partnership and Turkey, development is often in the opposite direction, despite huge investments in democratic support. The same applies to countries such as Afghanistan, Tanzania and Somalia. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Development a few simple questions.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-135	How exactly does dance, theatre, film and storytelling contribute to the democratisation of the Middle East? Why is there no systematic evaluation of the long-term performance of aid at country level anyway? There are some individual evaluations, as the Minister for Development pointed out, but they do not exist in all cases. Is it true that Sweden's support for Zimbabwe resulted in a law against child marriage? This is written in Sida's annual report, but is this true?
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-138	Madam President, I would like I have already answered some of the questions that Ludvig Aspling chose to ask again. At the beginning of my previous speech, I mentioned that, unfortunately, developments in the world as a whole are going in the wrong direction in terms of democracy and human rights. This is a very worrying development which unfortunately affects all parts of the world. This is what has been the starting point for us, on the part of the government and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs – and on my part – now to pursue a democracy effort that means strengthening political efforts, both economically and politically, in this whole area. It's all about our aid work. All the contributions we make – the contributions from Sida – are subject to evaluations of various kinds. It is therefore nonsense to say that there would be no evaluation of what we are doing. It is done by all efforts. The drive for democracy that we are now talking about has just begun. It will continue for years to come. I do not think that this alone will be able to reverse developments in the world – it would be quite naive to believe that – but the aim is for us to be able to contribute. By strengthening our efforts and by being more coherently focused – all our resources in terms of embassies, political work and our aid organisations should be focused on this – we should be able to help reverse this development, especially if we do so together with other countries and with the multilateral organisations we have in the world. Unfortunately, I do not believe – and I did not expect – that Ludvig Aspling would participate in such work. Ludvig Aspling is, of course, the representative of a party that is committed to countering democracy and has roots that are clearly anti-democratic. In every country where Aspling's comrades have had an impact and power, this has led to a deterioration in the development of the rule of law and human rights. I had not expected any support from there, but rather expected that I would be met by the attitude that it is pointless to try to fight against negative developments in this area and that the money is being thrown away. I don't think so. I think it is absolutely crucial that we can reverse this trend in order to be able to live in countries with peace and freedom in the future.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-144	Madam President, I would like I note that the Minister for Development forgot to explain how dance and theatre contribute to democracy. But we have more posts here, so you'll get another chance soon. I now turn to what the Minister for Development says in the interpellation response: neither follow-up nor evaluation has changed. No evaluation of the impact of democratic aid has been removed either. We'll continue as we usually do. I think the Minister for Development misunderstands me a little here. I'm not saying you've taken anything away. I'm saying you've never handled this well. Sida has never, not as long as I have been here, this term of office and the previous one, systematically reported a real impact assessment of the democracy project. However, some individual evaluations have been carried out, such as in the case of Cambodia, as Peter Eriksson himself points out. Here the government claims that Swedish aid has provided significant added value in terms of five basic features of bottom-up processes: growth of independent civil societies, mobilisation at grassroots level, popular participation, educational level and political awareness. It is important to note that none of this says anything about whether or not the state of Cambodia has become more democratic. It is also important to compare it with the purpose of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' political strategy. It talks about the enjoyment of human rights, the functioning of the rule of law, the free media and so on. The Cambodian democracy index, which takes account of these very factors, has deteriorated during the period of aid. It started at 4.77 in 2006 and ended at 3.59 in 2018. I think it is obvious that Sida deliberately chooses to evaluate the aid based on completely different criteria than what it has promised to improve. It promises to achieve a functioning rule of law and human rights, but when it reports on what it has done, it has created added value for bottom-up processes and political awareness. Such things are, of course, completely impossible to measure objectively. In the answer, the Government says, "What the research shows, as Sida recently reported in a letter to the Government, is that there is a positive effect of democracy aid on the development of democracy." However, Peter Eriksson, the whole wording of the letter reads as follows: It has a positive but weak effect on the development of democracy. Expectations for results at national level shall be kept at a low level. There is little likelihood that democratic aid will lead to the transition of an authoritarian state to a democratic one. You think you are getting away with these petty lies, because aid may not be subject to frequent scrutiny by journalists. But here in the Swedish Parliament we read our footnotes, and here you will not escape. The same applies to the alleged law against child marriage in Zimbabwe. Now the Government is a little bit skewed at what is stated in the answer to the interpellation. It says that the work led, among other things, to a draft legislative proposal which, however, has not yet been adopted. But that's not what's in Sida's annual report. Sida's annual report says that parliamentary support led to a ban on child marriage. But that's not true, is it? No such law has been adopted. The reason I raise this is that it is obvious that Sida is taking advantage of the fact that voters do not really know everything that is happening out there in the world and that you therefore feel comfortable saying things that are not true. I suspect that if this report were examined in detail, much more such lies would be discovered, but unfortunately I have not had time to do so. I have to ask the government if he thinks this is okay. I would also like to point out that I am not saying that no evaluation of the impact has taken place. What I'm saying is that no real impact assessment has taken place. That's the point here. And I'm still waiting for the explanation of how dance contributes to democracy.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-155	Madam President, I would like I just want to make it clear that it is not primarily me and Sida who slip on the truth, but it is Ludvig Aspling who picks out details and puts things in my mouth and in Sida's mouth that we have not really said. Despite the great efforts we are now making in the field of climate change, we have not been able to reverse developments in the world. That is also the case in the area of democracy, and I am not withholding anything from you. I say that is why we need to reinforce these efforts in several parts of the world and target them in the right areas. Democracy is going the wrong way. I am not alone in saying this, but it is said in all the institutes that are monitoring and researching the field. A large part of the world's population, perhaps even a majority of the world's population, lives in countries where development is going in the wrong direction. Swedish aid has not been able to reverse the trend. It's not something you have to hold back or be ashamed of. From a global perspective, we have managed to make relatively small efforts so far, but for the people involved they have nevertheless been important. I agree that developments in Cambodia have gone drastically in the wrong direction in recent years. But we do not know what would have happened if we had not been there, if civil society had been there today, and is trying to do something about negative developments. I believe that it must be argued that positive efforts have been made in the countries of the world, even if overall or overall developments in that country are going in the wrong direction. I am very concerned about both the development of democracy in the world and what it looks like in Sweden today, because we see how parties with a history that is not at all positive to democracy are growing and taking more space. We have a social debate in many social media where more and more threats and hatred dominate. We must do what we can to reverse this trend, because I think it is a very dangerous trend that we are in. I find it worrying to have to stand in a speaker's chair and meet Members of Parliament who only aim to discredit and discredit efforts to try to bring about a decent world.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-162	Madam President, I would like Peter Eriksson! I am still waiting for an answer: how does dance and theatre contribute to democratisation in the Middle East? I'll give you one more chance here, and now I want a straight answer. I think that Peter Eriksson puts a little head on the nail when he says that we do not know what it would have looked like in Cambodia if we had not been there. No, and we are not doing so because we have no proper follow-up to the effects of aid. If we had had a real and solid impact assessment of our projects, we would probably know what would have happened if we hadn't been there. I must also inform the Minister for Development of what Parliament's task is. We're reviewing the government. It is therefore my job to read your evaluations and letters and find fault in them; that is what I am being paid for. To blame me for standing here doing that, I think it's pretty low. That's why we're here, Peter Eriksson. I would also like to return quickly to the bill on child marriage. It is not that I am snowing into the issue, but I still think it is indicative of much of the aid in general. The issue of child marriage is complex in many cultures. There is a rather lively debate in many developing countries between traditionalists on the one hand and perhaps modernists, if you want to put it that way, on the other. But it is not that these people have discovered that child marriage is wrong because a Swede has gone down there and corrected them. There are lots of people in these countries who think it is wrong. And it is a process that in most cases, I believe, will lead to bans, with or without Swedish help. Many of these kinds of efforts are not, in fact, necessary. Now Peter Eriksson has a post left. I am very excited to hear your answer to how dance, theatre, film and storytelling improve the democratic situation in the Middle East.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-168	Madam President, I would like I shall take this opportunity to respond to two more things. Ludvig Aspling believes that there is no need for Swedish work against child marriage, but on the contrary, we are doing quite a lot of work for SRHR and against abuse of children and young people in many countries, not least in Africa. It has a significant effect in many cases. In Zimbabwe, Sweden has been involved in working towards change. It has not come all the way to the adoption of a new law, but there is no reason to believe that our efforts have not contributed positively to development. I know it has done so in many of the other countries we work in. So to dance and other culture. In countries with large conflicts, conversations and cultural events can often help to reduce conflicts and bridge conflicts between groups and people, leading to a more decent and better situation in these countries. I have great hope that Sweden, together with other countries, can do even more and contribute to a better development of democracy in the world. However, Sweden alone will not be able to turn this around.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-172	Madam President, I would like Mrs Quicklund has asked me what measures I intend to take in connection with the evaluation of the State's sports policy objectives. First of all, I would like to thank the interpeller for once again raising this important issue. My answer is the same as what I left on the equally obedient written question from the interpeller earlier this month. State support for sport is significant and has increased over a period of years. The freedom and responsibility of the Swedish Sports Federation to allocate the aid is far-reaching. Freedom is, however, limited by the objectives and objectives decided by the Riksdag on the basis of the Government's support for sport and the Government's detailed regulation of how the aid may be used in order to provide a state contribution to sports activities. Children's rights perspective and gender equality as a requirement to benefit from the support are particularly emphasised. The Government regularly monitors state support for sport through the Centre for Sport Research at the School of Gymnastics and Sport. In the Budget Bill, the Government reports annually to the Riksdag the use of funds and indicators that follow developments over time. In the budget proposal for 2020, the Government emphasises that the ongoing review of the grant rules within the Swedish Sports Federation needs to be accelerated and lead to change. At the same time, the Government announced that a close dialogue will take place with the Swedish Sports Federation so that necessary changes to the grant rules are implemented without delay. These are changes that should lead to increased equality and equality in the state's contribution to sports activities. The freedom of the sports movement to allocate state support to sport is, for me, an important fundamental element of our sports policy order, but this freedom must also be exercised with the understanding that these funds must not be used in any other way than that decided by Parliament.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-178	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Sport for his answer. Two years ago, the Committee on Culture carried out an evaluation of the State's sports policy objectives, with a special focus on children and young people. It was a solid work that turned into a document of over 200 pages. There were four sports that were specially studied in different parts of the country: hockey, football, cross-country skiing and gymnastics. There were hundreds of interviews, and I would once again like to thank the Secretary-General, Lena Sandström, for her very solid work. She has been an investigator for many years, but this is the most extensive work she has done. There is a great deal of weight in this document, and I hope that the Minister for Sport will take note of it. I would also like to point out that we in the follow-up group, which included all the parties, agreed on the positions we reached. I will prefer them so that the Minister can make them clear. The Group's position was that there was a need for a review of state support for sport. The background to our proposal is that, on the one hand, sports policy aims to support a free and independent sports movement, and on the other hand, the State's objectives and purpose of the grant are also to be achieved. We see this as a difficult balance. The state has left the exercise of authority to allocate the state grant to the National Sports Federation and Sisu, who in turn distributes these funds to sport. This shall be done on the basis of and in accordance with the objectives of the Riksdag and what the Government decides. Sport is free and independent, but it does not prevent the State from imposing conditions on the use of state resources, which is important to highlight. An important objective decided by the Riksdag in 2009 is that state grants for children's and young people's sports should only be given to activities conducted from the perspective of children's rights. The state needs to follow up that only children's and young people's sports conducted from the perspective of children's rights should receive a grant. Today there is no systematic follow-up to this application of the child rights perspective in sport. This is strange because the Riksdag was so clear in 2009 that no associations that do not comply with children's rights should receive funds. We know that there are associations that do not comply with this and that there are violations and so on. Yet, despite the clear decision, these associations are taking part in state funds. For example, in terms of evaluations, only 24 out of 70 sports participated in the follow-up of the Sports Lift. It is therefore voluntary to monitor the use of state funds, and it will therefore be difficult to follow. There are also studies showing that organisations and sports leaders do not follow the children's rights perspective and its principles. There is also research on it. More knowledge is therefore needed to clarify how and to what extent children and young people are violated in sport. The evaluation group also notes that the knowledge about Sport wants to be improved, i.e. the idea programme from the Swedish Sports Federation. It has also emerged from various reports that the level of knowledge needs to be increased. I am interested to hear how the Minister for Sport sees this. Now that we know that this is not being followed, how does the Minister for Sport intend to act on this very important issue?
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-192	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Quicklund for raising this issue. I have taken note of the Culture Committee's follow-up to the state's support for sport that was done in 2017. It is an extensive piece of work, as Mrs Quicklund also points out, and I am pleased that the Committee on Culture did so in such a thorough and ambitious way. Just as Saila Quicklund says, it is a balancing process for both the parliament and the government in terms of support for the sports movement. We have a fantastic sports movement with over 600 000 committed and 3 million participants, which makes it the largest popular movement in Sweden. The sports movement has and should have a great freedom, and we have to deal with it as the popular movement it is. This means that we must be humble in view of the fact that performance reports for sport activities, which, like the rest of society, are based so much on voluntary commitment, cannot be directly compared with other government performance reports. At the same time, it is undoubtedly the case, and I fully agree with Mrs Quicklund, that the objectives of sport policy should be met and followed in order to benefit from the support of over SEK 2 billion we give to the sports movement every year. These are, of course, significant means, but above all they are the many children and young people who will be able to participate in the sports movement without being subjected to violations, abuse, harassment and other things that unfortunately still exist in the sports movement and other parts of our society. Then the objectives of sport policy are much greater than that. For example, we should strive for equality and an equality perspective. What was highlighted in the report and, unfortunately, we have seen that many other reports, including those from the Centre for Sport Research, point out is that we still have a major problem with regard to equality in sport. There are too many children and young people who today do not come into contact with the sports movement. Where in the country you live, what background you have and what parents you have, unfortunately, affects too much how much you are involved in Sweden's sports movement. I think we share the ambition that we must get to grips with this. This is something that I highlight in my dialogue with the Swedish Sports Federation. I gave a speech at the National Sports Meeting last spring in which I stressed how important it is for the sports movement to assume its responsibilities. I know that the sports movement has an awareness of this. A decision was made at the National Sports Meeting last spring to review the grant rules in accordance with the ambition of the Swedish Parliament to make the distribution of the grant more equal. This is something you're working on now. In our budget reporting or reporting back to the Riksdag, we in the Government have stressed that it is important that the change takes place quickly and has a real effect. Having said that, of course, I am striving to further improve the reporting to the Riksdag. The Government has commissioned the Centre for Sport Research to conduct in 2020 an in-depth analysis of how the sports movement can work to improve its governance, transparency and democratic functioning. A specific analysis shall be carried out of the various tools used by the sports movement to detect and address activities where there may be crime or abuse of children. The Centre for Sport Research will also look at how the sports movement can develop indicators that are important to us and that are about following up sports support. This will be reported to the Ministry of Culture in May.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-204	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer. The evaluation team was very clear that the government's governance of support for sport and the design of the funds need to be made clearer, as the results are so unclear. The Minister referred to the Centre for Sport Research. It is absolutely not numerical that is missing – they are very clear – but it is the analysis of why we do not reach the goals that the Riksdag has set and that we do not get results report for. The amount allocated to sport has increased considerably over the years, but it is still unclear what is achieved with state subsidies. We know that activities in children's and young people's sports have been reduced. Boys sports more than girls, resource-weak groups and young people with disabilities sports significantly less than others and girls with foreign background sports significantly less than boys with foreign background. This is where the analyses are missing. Numerary performance reporting is one thing, but perhaps this is more important at the moment. On the basis of the observations made by the group, we see that a review is needed. This review needs to cover socio-economic conditions, equality, equality, as the Minister also expressed, and the opportunities for disabled people to sport, which is often obscured, as well as how we can combat and deal with violations in sport, as we know. Above all, the government's reporting to the Riksdag needs to continue to be further developed, and this is precisely the case with the analyses. This means that the government needs to report the results of the SEK 2 billion that the sports movement receives in grants and how the child rights perspective is taken into account in the sports movement, because we know that there are challenges there. The Government also needs to tell the Riksdag what measures the Government intends to take, as the results are not satisfactory based on the Riksdag's objectives. The Minister will be happy to respond to this later. As early as 2004, the Swedish National Audit Office examined the state's support for sport and concluded that the assessment of the results did not enable the Riksdag to assess whether the objectives of the state contribution to sport have been met. This is quite remarkable – it is still SEK 2 billion. It wasn't at the time, but it is today. Following a proposal from the Committee on Culture, the Riksdag decided to make an announcement that meant that the government would more clearly report to the Riksdag how the sports movement makes use of the grants granted by the state each year. The problem is that by 2020 we are still facing the same challenges and problems. So we are talking about SEK 2 billion, and we have children and young people in the sports movement. I will also pay tribute to that later, of course, but that is not relevant. It is frustrating that we are still standing where we stand when the Swedish National Audit Office reviewed already in 2004 and there was a announcement in 2005 that the government must come back with better performance assessments and analyses, which we lack.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-214	Madam President, I would like We are following the arrangements adopted for the re-statement of the results of state funding for sport within the framework of the budget. Having said that, I am working to improve the reporting of results. I would like to start by saying a few words about the subsidies and the grant rules. In several budget proposals, the government has stressed that the sports movement and the National Sports Federation need to take the challenge seriously. The whole thing is deeply worrying and worrying, and I really share Saila Quicklund's commitment. There is still inequality in sport, despite considerable efforts. What we have to deal with is actually a historical distortion. Support for sport has benefited certain sports, which in turn benefit certain groups of children. We have to work on this, and the sports movement has a great homework to do. I am pleased that the sports movement is aware of this. We have, most recently in the budget bill, pressed. They are now working to change the contributions within the movement so that they will promote equality to a greater extent. This is an important work, which, of course, I both encourage and follow extremely closely. Things have happened since the 2017 review. I am pleased that the sports movement itself has taken a number of steps to prevent violations, to work preventively and to create clearer structures for reporting abuse. A sports ombudsman has been set up and a whistleblower function created. Now, since the turn of the year, the Convention on the Rights of the Child is Swedish law, and this is something that the Swedish government has worked for a lot. This further inculcates how important it is that no young person in Sweden should have to go to school, home to their family or to the sports movement and be exposed. We need to have good functions to protect. The Swedish Sports Federation decided at the National Sports Meeting this spring that records will be required from the end of the year for leaders who work with children. This is an important step in strengthening control and creating safe and secure environments for our children and young people. The assignments that are usually given annually to the Centre for Sport Research to analyse certain aspects of the sports movement in Sweden are absolutely central to the in-depth analysis that I perceive Saila Quicklund wants. I have received the latest analysis from the Centre for Sport Research, and it just highlighted the issue of equality. Some year earlier it was gender equality, and I know that children's rights issues have also been highlighted. In addition to the ongoing follow-up work and all dialogues between the Departments and the Swedish Sports Federation, the work of the Centre for Sport Research is important. That is why I would like to say once again that I think the step that I and the government took before Christmas is important. We then commissioned the Centre for Sport Research to look at the indicators linked to the objectives of sport policy. It is basically about how the Swedish Sports Federation's follow-up to the Government and the Riksdag can be developed and about how we can follow up on the rather complicated issues that Saila Quicklund has been dealing with and which are about governance, association democracy and openness. The aim of all this work is, of course, not to impose unnecessary burdens on the sports movement, but to find ways, in good dialogue, both to monitor state subsidies and funds, which I think is important, and to give the sports movement opportunities to develop.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-223	Madam President, I would like The Centre for Sport Research is doing a fantastic job – on behalf of course. If analysis is now forthcoming, it is important that proposals are linked to measures that are then taken. I'd be happy to follow that up. I know that the evaluation carried out by the Committee on Culture has had an impact. We previously had a two-month rule in the statutes of the Swedish Sports Federation. It meant that if someone was violated – sexual abuse or other violations – and it was reported and more than two months passed, this was closed. A special sports federation had closed 25 per cent of its complaints. This was something that we noticed and were strongly critical of. There, the National Sports Federation has now made changes. The emphasis has therefore been placed on children and young people in sport, and this has been very important. I would really like to emphasise that. I have an origin in the sports movement, and I pay tribute to it on a daily basis – the 650 000 non-profit leaders of the 20 000 associations and the 3.2 million members. These are fantastic contributions for society but also for the individual. I really want to highlight this. These are priceless efforts. These people are really our everyday heroes. I would also like to point out that the special sports federations we examined – gymnastics, cross-country skiing, ice hockey and football – have made fantastic parts themselves to improve child and youth sport within their branches. I would like to draw attention to this. They're working very well on this. However, during the follow-up, we must pay particular attention to the development opportunities that exist in terms of the functioning and instruments of state aid and ensure that the use of funds is in line with the objectives and objectives set by Parliament. Finally, I hope that this evaluation will be useful.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-229	Madam President, I would like My goal as sports minister is to ensure that every child in this country has the same chances of training and competing as their classmates, including those of another sex or background. This requires, of course, that the Swedish Sports Federation continues to develop its support system but also continues to challenge old standards. But we from the state must also look at what we can do. I believe that the overall challenge is about how we ensure that sport reaches everyone. We have long seen a negative trend. We have seen that children end up in sport in the past and that their background is playing an increasingly important role in access to sport. And we still have a long way to go to ensure that girls' and boys' sports are given the same support. The children's perspective must therefore permeate all policy areas and must, of course, also permeate sports policy. Children and young people should be given the opportunity to participate and influence in sport. But above all, sport must be a safe place. This is particularly important, Madam President, for those children who do not feel this security in the family or in school. The children's perspective has been the subject of several follow-up assignments to the Centre for Sport Research. And this year's mission, as I have already described, has a clear focus on finding ways to prevent child abuse and work preventively. It has been about ten years since the children's perspective was introduced into state sports policy, and it has also been incorporated into RF's statutes. I want to believe that this has meant a lot to children's rights. I am pleased that the children's perspective has begun to be discussed in recent years, and I would like to thank everyone who has pushed the issue politically and everyone who has witnessed abuse and thus brought this issue to light. Now the Convention on the Rights of the Child has been made law, so that the issues are further focused. As far as the use of state sports subsidies is concerned, we are continuing the dialogue with RF. I know that I have the Parliament behind me when it comes to the distribution of aid more equally and equally. I also know that there is a great deal of commitment within the sports movement.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-237	Madam President, I would like David Josefsson has asked Minister Hans Dahlgren if he is prepared to take the initiative to lift the Swedish export ban on snus, for example in connection with negotiations on the EU's long-term budget. The interpellation has been handed over to me. I would like to begin by emphasising that the overall objective of the government's tobacco policy is to reduce all tobacco use, including snuff, and to prevent minors from using tobacco. The target was adopted by the Riksdag in 2011 and has since been set in the Government's revised strategy for alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco policy 2016 – 2020, the so-called ANDT strategy. I would also like to emphasise that Sweden supports a public health-based and restrictive tobacco policy in the EU. The adoption of the Tobacco Products Directive (Directive 2014/40/ EU) was an important step in the EU's tobacco prevention work, and Sweden has fully implemented the Directive. The Tobacco Products Directive means that snus can continue to be sold in Sweden, but not in the other Member States. During the negotiations on the directive, Sweden initially pushed the line that snuff should be sold throughout the EU, including with the argument that snus is less harmful than other tobacco products allowed throughout the EU. However, Sweden's position was met with strong opposition from the European Commission and gained little support from the other Member States. This meant that Sweden instead focused on maintaining its exemption for sales and that we ourselves should be allowed to regulate the content of snus. In the negotiations, Sweden succeeded in excluding snus from the provisions of the Tobacco Products Directive on content regulation. Efforts to lift the ban on the export of snus to other Member States also raise the issue of a renegotiation of the Tobacco Products Directive. A renegotiation always involves risks and could threaten, among other things, the exceptions for snus that Sweden has received in the previous negotiation and that apply on the Swedish market today. The government defends the Swedish exception for the sale of snuff and that we ourselves are allowed to regulate ingredients and seasoning. For these reasons, I am currently not prepared to actively work towards the abolition of the EU ban on the export of snus to other Member States. In this context, I would like to point out that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has repeatedly stated, most recently in the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy 2018/ 19:NU13, that the issue of promoting the lifting of the export ban no longer has the same topicality.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-244	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I asked this interpellation already in December when the question of the negotiations on the EU's long-term budget was being raised in real terms. For a few reasons, the debate has been postponed until today. It is almost an irony of fate that the debate on interpellation takes place on the same day that the EU has an extraordinary summit to discuss precisely the long-term budget. On the substance of the EU levy, I hope that we agree that Sweden will not pay more to the EU – on the contrary. But that is not what my question is about. My question is about what initiatives the government is prepared to take to lift the ban on snus exports in connection with these negotiations. I think that Sweden, as a net contributor, should have a fairly good negotiating position vis-à-vis the rest of the EU on this issue. Snusmaking is an important part of the Swedish food industry. Today about 3 000 people work with snusmaking, many of them in Gothenburg, from which I come, but also in Skåne and Gotland. I believe that the ban on snus is currently Sweden's single largest barrier to trade in the internal market. I will pay tribute to the Government for giving a very direct and clear answer. She specifically says that she is not prepared to actively work towards the abolition of the export ban. It's a shame she answers that way. I believe that a lifting of the export ban would probably have generated both jobs and export revenues to the Swedish food industry. But even if the answer is straight and clear, it also leaves room for some supplementary questions. The Government's response to me has highlighted that the overall objective of the government's tobacco policy is to reduce tobacco consumption. She has also highlighted that Sweden supports a public health-based and restrictive tobacco policy in the EU. That's good. I also think that we should support evidence-based policies aimed at minimising the harmful effects of both tobacco and alcohol. But I do not see the contradiction, Madam President. Although Sweden allows both snuffing and smoking, tobacco use in Sweden is at a comparable level to the EU average, and actually a little lower. What distinguishes Sweden is that the level of smoking is significantly lower than the EU average. Allowing snus to be exported to the EU would hardly mean that new groups will start using tobacco. It would rather mean that smokers in Europe would turn to snus, which is about what has happened in Norway. This in turn is good from a public health point of view, because it seems to be harmful. Although it is fundamentally against all tobacco use, it is reasonably better for public health that people snip than they smoke, Madam President. To conclude, I wonder what the Government really means by the fact that Parliament has stated in a report from the Committee on Economic Affairs that the matter no longer has the same topicality. The fact that Parliament has rejected a number of motions for an announcement on the export ban is not the same as the fact that we here in Parliament are conducting some kind of topicality examination of the issue itself. My question was whether the government was prepared to raise the issue of an export ban on snus during the negotiations on the EU's long-term budget. That question is very topical. It is actually up-to-date.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-253	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned, Sweden supports the public health-based and restrictive tobacco policy in the EU. I think we agree on that. At the same time, as we have pointed out earlier by the Government, we are not prepared to risk the Swedish derogation through a renegotiation of the Tobacco Products Directive. Sweden has also voted in favour of the directive and has therefore already taken a position on the issue of, among other things, the ban on snus in the other Member States. We have high ambitions from Sweden and the government in the area of public health. We have also joined those countries that want to take the lead in tobacco control. If Sweden acts in a way that would not be loyal to what is decided in the directive, it could have repercussions on Sweden's credibility vis-à-vis other states and the institutions of the European Union. It may damage our credibility, and therefore perhaps also the possibility, if it proves necessary, of defending the Swedish snus exception. That is an argument I would like to emphasise once again. Sweden's right under the Accession Treaty to have snuff sales in Sweden is quite rightly permanent. The authorised derogation can only be lifted by all Member States including Sweden. We both know that. But it only covers the sale, not the content, the seasoning and so on. As the negotiations in the Tobacco Products Directive showed, the EU still has the opportunity to decide on the taste and content of snuff. This means that the European Commission may propose restrictions on the Swedish snus exemption in these areas. It can then be adopted in the Council by a qualified majority. I just want to lift up the possible risk. There is broad agreement on the overall objective of Swedish tobacco policy to reduce all tobacco use, which I mentioned at the outset. The objective was developed by the Alliance Government in 2011 in the ANDT strategy that I mentioned earlier. It is also decided with a broad parliamentary majority. We know today that snuffing increases the risk of ill health and disease. Research is still ongoing in this area. The extent to which the risks are at stake is at issue. However, there is an increased risk of ill health. Several studies and literature reviews also show that there is sufficient knowledge of the damaging effects of snus to dissuade snus use. Health risks of snuffing cannot be dismissed simply because smoking is even more serious. Then to the question of the EU's long-term budget. In this context, I would just like to comment on the fact that I find it difficult to imagine that the majority of Swedish taxpayers would see the logic of such a large issue as an increased membership fee in the EU and the EU's long-term budget possibly having dramatic consequences for Swedish finances and that it could be compensated by an opportunity for Swedish snus companies to export their products to the EU. It's a different dimension of the questions. I would, of course, like to answer the question. I don't see the natural connection. As mentioned here today, it is a very topical issue, but it is also a very big one. I do not see it being included in the debate. I do not think we have a broad majority behind us to negotiate the substantial possible increase in the EU membership fee that would mean for Sweden.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-261	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. The Government points out that it does not want to risk the Swedish derogation. I am a strong European friend. I believe in European cooperation and the internal market. But European cooperation cannot simply be about compliance with EU rules. It must also be about making our voice heard and making Europe listen to us. We are net contributors to the EU. This also means that we have a good chance of influencing the European Union. If we do not use this opportunity, we are undermining, I mean, the legitimacy of the European Union among the Swedes. Not wanting to work actively to lift the export ban on snus, in fact, regardless of the context, on the grounds that it is concerned that the EU will remove the Swedish derogation is precisely such a policy that undermines the EU's legitimacy in Sweden. It is precisely such an argument that an EU sceptic uses to argue against Sweden being a member of the EU. We will be in the European Union. But we must also actively work to improve Europe. I originally put the interpellation to EU Minister Hans Dahlgren. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to ask Anna Hallberg, as Minister for Foreign Trade, to develop a number of questions about the government's export policy, Madam President. There may be differences of opinion as to how harmful snus is. However, whether a product is morally edifying or not has not previously prevented the Swedish government from making quite significant efforts to strengthen Swedish exports of it. In 2018, Anna Hallberg's colleague Mikael Damberg, then Minister of Economic Affairs, awarded the Food Exporter of the Year award to The Absolut Company, which produces Absolut vodka. The Food Exporter of the Year prize is a collaboration between the Government, Business Sweden and the food companies. In October last year, Anna Hallberg himself visited the construction of the Swedish pavilion for the Expo 2020 World Exhibition in the United Arab Emirates. Gun manufacturer Saab is the official sponsor of Expo 2020. One of the biggest customers of Saab is the United Arab Emirates. Understand me right. I think that Sweden should be proud of both The Absolut Company and Saab. But the Government is happy to develop why the Government strongly promotes Swedish exports of alcohol and weapons but is not prepared to support Swedish exports of snuff with the same energy. You can discuss the research situation. However, I think we still agree that available research shows that snuff is significantly less harmful than alcohol.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-269	Madam President, I would like As far as the health risks of snusping are concerned, we know that nicotine is highly addictive. It has effects on the heart and blood vessels, among other things. Snuse causes reversible changes in the mucosa of the mouth. There may also be permanent damage to the gums and the places where the snuff is usually placed. Furthermore, snus use in pregnancy carries an increased risk of, for example, premature birth and intrauterine foetal death. It is not a question of morality in this respect, but of the damage to which the snuff contributes. Other health effects are currently less clearly identified for snus than for other tobacco. There are more health effects on smoking. But we know that snuffing increases the risk of ill health and disease. There is sufficient knowledge of that. We cannot dismiss the health risks of snuffing by saying that smoking is even more dangerous. I would like to remove the moral aspect of my previous contributions. It's more about health promotion. Tobacco is a legal commercial product. However, because tobacco and nicotine are highly addictive, they need to be specifically regulated. For public health reasons, tobacco products, as we know, are covered by a large number of regulations. This applies, for example, to provisions on marketing, warnings, restrictions on trade and so on. The overall tobacco policy objective adopted by the Riksdag means that all tobacco use will be reduced. That is the overall objective, and it makes no distinction between different tobacco products. This does not mean, however, that tobacco products are regulated in the same way. There are differences between how cigarettes and snuff are regulated, and we know that too. The National Board of Health and Welfare also does not recommend snuff as a method of smoking cessation. It doesn't have that effect. In any case, snus is not recommended as a smoking cessation method. The National Board of Health and Welfare also notes that there are no scientific studies on the effect of snus as a smoke cessation agent. The reason I am raising this is comparability with other countries, where smoking is more common and snuff may not occur at all. In any case, the National Board of Health and Welfare does not point out that snus would be a method of smoking cessation and further states that there are other, effective measures for this. Sweden has an obligation to prohibit the commercial export of snus to other EU countries. It is also clear from the snus regulation and the withdrawal agreement that the UK is covered. I would like to highlight this because Brexit is also a topical issue. The UK is therefore subject to the exit ban during the so-called transitional period of Brexit. We've made that clear, too. The government is about to set up an investigation with the task of reviewing certain issues in the tobacco sector. The aim is to ensure a coherent and systematic regulation of tobacco, e-cigarettes and tobacco-free nicotine products – this is said about snuff and tobacco. The issue of arms exports was also raised here by David Josefsson. It is not really in the interpellation, but I would still like to answer it briefly. It is a completely different area, which is about Sweden's defence policy and neutrality policy and about the ability to have a defence industry. We have one of the world's most strict regulations on arms exports. It is extremely strict, and there are guidelines that limit it in a way that I think we both know about. I just want to point out that this is a completely different issue, which ultimately has to do with Sweden's defence capabilities and that we should be able to have our own defence industry. But it is of course incredibly important to have strict rules in this area too.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-279	Madam President and the Government. We got a long statement here that snuff isn't health promotion. My point was a little bit that alcohol is also not health-promoting, but it is supported by the government. It even pays prices for alcohol exports and vodka exports. In the debate, the Government has given a straight and clear answer. Although that is not the answer I had hoped for, it leaves absolutely no room for misunderstanding. The government is not prepared to actively work towards the abolition of the EU ban on snus exports. That's too bad. It is a pity for the 3 000 employees working in snus manufacturing in Sweden today – 3 000 employees who could have been far more likely if the government had been more aggressive in allowing the food industry to export snus also to the rest of the EU. It's a shame from a public health perspective. One can discuss how the different tobacco laws stand against each other. But snus is essentially a substitute for smokers, and although snusing is not good for health, it is much better than smoking tobacco. But that is also a pity from an EU perspective. Today, at this time, the EU's long-term budget is being negotiated. Sweden is one of the net donors. As a friend of Europe, I want Sweden to have the bang for the buck, and I think it would have given bang for the buck to abolish our biggest barrier to trade in the internal market. It is a pity that the government does not share my view. Nevertheless, I would like to thank the Government for a good debate and for a clear answer.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-284	Madam President, I would like Thank you, David Josefsson, for a good debate, as I said! In conclusion, I would just like to take my speaking time again to emphasise the risks that I see with the attempt to possibly renegotiate the Swedish derogation. We want to preserve the Swedish exception, and we see that there are risks in reopening the hearing. I have mentioned this earlier in the debate. I also mentioned that there is broad agreement in Parliament on the overall objective of reducing all tobacco use and use. That is also the government's objective. Finally, I would like to mention that, of course, every day we should use our voice in the European Union for the Swedish interests that we want to highlight and preserve. In this case, the government chooses to protect the Swedish exception but also to protect our attitude to try to reduce all tobacco use. We may not meet in agreement on this, but I thank the President and the honourable Member for a good debate.
i-N1e71dzjAffpHKNhivVcG4	An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. I would therefore like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister Mikael Damberg, Minister for Defence Peter Hultqvist, Minister Peter Eriksson and Minister for Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind. The Government Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-289	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address my question to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. Ever since the final report of the Swedish Defence Committee, Värnkraft was presented in spring 2019, Swedish defence policy has been characterised by confusion. That is deeply regrettable. After all, the Social Democrats refused to support the final report of the Committee on Defence because they did not want to stand up for the financial commitments. Then an economic agreement was reached with C and L, which was not price assured. The consequence is that the ÖB now says that only half of the Defence Committee's proposals can be implemented until 2025. The Minister of Defence has appointed an analysis group to evaluate the Swedish Armed Forces' documentation together with the Swedish Defence Committee's proposal. That analysis team has suffered from serious deficiencies such as not being able to handle classified material. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Defence whether he is willing to use the Defence Preparation for the forthcoming political negotiations for the new defence decision.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-292	Mr President, I would like to It was probably generally healthy that it was stated at an early stage that it is not certain that exactly what the Defence Committee has said about the economy is in confrontation with reality. That is why we did exactly as they usually did, took in an analysis from the Swedish Armed Forces, and there it became clear that this was not on a solid basis. Then we've moved on. It was necessary to carry out this analysis of the economy, which Pål Jonson himself has participated in as late as today and which is now to be regarded as a finished work. We come in the forms and negotiations that will lead to a defence decision in the future to clarify that we can share secret information, clarify transparency and lay the foundations for a broad future defence settlement.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-294	Mr President, I would like to I can say that it was not the case that the government waited for the Swedish Armed Forces' documentation. You made a decision on the economy on 30 August, so in this respect it does not distinguish anything from the analysis of the Defense Committee. I would also like to remind you that the defence committee is the government's body for the consultation and direction of the future defence policy. If the government is keen to maintain a broad political consensus on security and defence policy, it should therefore be open to using the Defence Preparation.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-296	Mr President, I would like to Of course, and that is what Pål Jonson knows, we are keen to lay the groundwork for breadth in the settlement. We are now looking at the forms of how to pursue this work in the future. I have just given an account of the entry values of how such work can be carried out. Then, as far as our deal is concerned, we made it at this level. However, it is not the same as that I myself took an oath that this was the exact level for fulfilling all of the defence committee's ambitions – although the defence committee previously had total security in this, which proved to be out of line with reality.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-299	Mr President, I would like to The proportion of women exposed to serious sex offences under coercion is increasing. On the other hand, the proportion of expulsions of convicted offenders is decreasing. Among other things, we have the high-profile verdict on a group rape where three foreign offenders were sentenced by the District Court for aggravated rape to multi-annual imprisonment and expulsion. However, the Court of Appeal changed the sentence of one of the men so that the expulsion order was annulled, on the grounds that the man's mental illness made him particularly vulnerable in his home country and that an expulsion would hit the man excessively hard. No rape victim should have to hear that an expulsion entails but or that the rapist's mental illness makes him particularly vulnerable in his home country so that he thus gets the penalty reduced or even gets the right to stay in Sweden. The victim perspective is as blown away with government policy. The Court of Appeal makes assessments based on how the law is designed. It is therefore not the Court of Appeal that is responsible for the outcome, but the legislator.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-304	Mr President, I would like to Among the worst crimes committed are when women are subjected to rape or sexual violence. There's work going on where we've tightened our penalties. We are now also investing heavily in the Swedish Police Agency, where 350 people are employed around Sweden to investigate this type of crime more quickly. We know that when the investigation is carried out correctly, it leads to more convictions. Swedish legislation allows and stipulates that in the case of this type of serious crime it is also possible to condemn to expulsion. As Minister of State in the Swedish Government, I should not comment on the outcome of individual judgments, but I can see that the legislation allows the expulsion of serious crimes.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-306	Mr President, I would like to The Code of Criminal Deportation has been the same since 1994. The need for new legislation is great. It is reasonable for people who come here to comply with Swedish laws and regulations. If you don't, you just shouldn't be in Sweden. The ruling by HD, to which I referred, guides the rest of Sweden's courts. What is needed to avoid foreign rapists not being sentenced to expulsion is a simple change of law. When, more precisely, does the government plan to get this amendment through?
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-308	Mr President, I would like to By pursuing a policy that tightens the penalties for this type of crime, it will be easier to sentence to expulsion, because it is related to the type of crime but also to the seriousness of the crime. The more serious the crime is, the greater the chance and the opportunity to expel. But it is also based on the fact that we have evidence, and there we are currently making a very large collection of forces to give the police greater opportunities to investigate this type of crime so that it really leads to conviction.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-311	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister of Sport Amanda Lind. Last year Generation Pep released his report on children's and young people's movement patterns. It showed that far too many move far too little. The report also confirms that the activity decreases with age and that girls move less than boys. Girls in high school are the least mobile. This is worrying to me. Why don't girls think it's as fun to play, play and practice as boys think? Is it because of too little sports in school? Is it because schoolyards and other environments are mostly adapted to team sports? Is it because the sports movement is too competitive? These are questions asked by the Centre for Sport Research. They also feel that the sports movement needs to be a little more mobile. It should be easy to start practicing or practicing a sport without any requirement for performance, even in older ages. Public health among children and young people is not equal and does not prove to be equal. I would like to hear the sports minister's view on this and whether there is any work going on to change it.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-316	Mr President, I would like to I fully share the problem picture that Helena Vilhelmsson describes. Unfortunately, we have received reports of this kind for quite a few years from the Centre for Sport Research and from other research that indicate that children move far too little, stop playing sports earlier and that there is still inequality and inequality in sport. The government is clear to the Swedish Sports Federation and the sports movement that more must be done to counteract this. The sports movement is currently reviewing its grant rules in order for them to better steer towards more equality and gender equality. It's an important thing. Then we also need to do more from the public. We have introduced 100 more sports hours in school. Of course, it contributes to more sport and movement. We need to do more when it comes to how we design our environments for more movement and more sustainability at all. Then I also believe that the municipalities have an important job in cooperating more with both the sports movement and the open leisure activities in order to make facilities available and in different ways open up sport to more people in our country.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-320	Mr President, I would like to It's safe to hear it. I know there's a lot of people working on this. It is maternity and child health care, preschool and school, association life, business and, not least, we here through policy instruments. But the question is, is that enough? Although we have adopted public health objectives, the situation is not much better. I wonder if there might be a need for better coordination. Other countries have adopted frameworks and strategies to clarify exactly who is responsible for what. Does the Minister think that this could be part of the solution for this to be clarified and we should actually achieve our public health objectives for children and young people?
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-322	Mr President, I would like to That could certainly be part of the solution. At the same time, we have stated objectives. We know that this is a challenge, and I believe that the most important thing is to achieve effective action. Now, as I said, we have just introduced 100 more sports hours in school. V i has the Movement Network, which works precisely for the collaboration between education, school and sports to bring more natural movement into school and increase the contact areas towards association life. The sports movement is working intensively on the issue. We have to do more.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-324	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address my question to Minister of Home Affairs Mikael Damberg. In just a few years, the number of robberies against young victims has more than doubled. 2 484 crimes were reported in 2019. It gives the feeling of not being protected and of being robbed at any time and also humiliated. This is an alarming development. The crimes occur not only in the large cities but also in smaller towns, for example recently in Fristad outside Borås. Mr President, I would like to Force is needed to reverse this negative trend, and we Christian Democrats want to tighten the penalties for young people who commit crimes. Surprisingly, the Prime Minister has recently explained that it is the Alliance's tax cuts between 2006 and 2014 that are the reason for the increase in youth robberies that we are seeing today. I therefore wonder: does the Minister for Home Affairs share the Prime Minister's analysis as to the reason for the increase in the number of juvenile robberies? If so, how does the Minister view the government's own tax cuts in the latest budget and in the S-government's budgets before 2006?
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-327	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for an important question, Ingemar Kihlström! The youth robbery is plaguing Sweden right now. We have seen a sharp rise in recent years. When you see pictures and take part of the reports about this, you understand how the victims of crime, these young people who are affected, feel. Their families are very concerned about their children after something like this has happened. I also see some kind of lack of morality linked to these events, which also sometimes have grossly degrading features. There you have to ask yourself what the parenting role is like and how morals can be broken in this way. We're taking this very seriously. The police are putting in strong action, the police are growing, we are setting up more cameras and we are introducing a new juvenile sanction with penalties for this particular youth category that can be considered. However, we also need to make preventive efforts through school and social services, not least in the vulnerable areas, to ensure that young people do not end up wrong. Tax money will be needed to afford the required welfare investments.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-331	Mr President, I would like to Together with punitive measures are needed, as the Minister says, preventive measures. The family is the cornerstone of society and sometimes needs support to break young people's negative life choices. The Christian Democrats have proposed a National Crisis Social Emergency that could further help local social services. The government has recently joined the Christian Democrats' proposal on Psychiatric ambulances and increased powers for customs. Is it also time to join the proposal for a national emergency social emergency services?
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-333	Mr President, I would like to I think it is good that we are having a discussion where we are thinking more about what we can do for prevention purposes also at national level. We have commissioned both the Swedish National Agency for Education and Social Services to focus efforts to work more preventively. I do not rule out the need for further efforts to ensure that these young people are taken care of early so that they are not drawn into this type of criminal activity. It's the most crime prevention work we can do. But then tax money is also required. Then, when you get the chance, also on the part of the Christian Democrats, you cannot always give priority to major tax cuts.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-336	Mr President, I would like to I was going to continue a little on the same subject as the previous questioners had, that is, that we have an increasing violence among young people. Even when many of those who are going to answer the questions here today were young people, there was violence. It was not uncommon for poor and vulnerable children to attack those who were more privileged, perhaps in SSU or FPU, where I was active myself. But now we have a completely different development. We see execution, manning and demeaning robberies, and we see young people being taken up by gangs of criminals and forced to commit numerous crimes and carry narcotics and small arms. We are now looking at removing the penalty rebates that are automatic today for young people over the age of 18. When will Minister Damberg return with a proposal to Parliament? It's urgent. The age of young people should be taken into account, but automatic discounts should not be provided for those who commit crimes.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-339	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Pehrson, for an important question! There will be a need for new penalties for young people, and I think that we are having an important discussion about the new youth penalty, which may mean a curfew for this particular age category and which means that they must not be in the city so that ordinary caring young people dare to be out while these young people are allowed to be at home with anklets. But changes are also needed to the current system of youth discounts. It does not work satisfactorily. As Johan Pehrson knows, it is not I who will put forward those proposals, but Morgan Johansson, but we expect to do so in a fairly short time.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-342	Mr President, I would like to I'm glad to hear that. I would just like to emphasise that, in order for this to be supported in Parliament, it is easier for Minister Damberg, when he talks to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson, to take with him that we demand that there should not really be any discounts at all. Only people who have committed a crime in the past can be considered. It must not be limited by what kind of crime it is and so on, because we must be sooner and clearer. The simplest social education measure we can take to reduce crime is early and clear. Otherwise, we have to be tough, and we want to avoid that.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-344	Mr President, I would like to I would like to stress the importance of early reactions from society and early action for young people so that they do not fall wrong, but it is also important to change the youth rebate system. I also understood the reading in committee as not being in favour of the Moderates' line of removing it altogether, and that sounds promising as we continue to work on the proposal.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-345	Mr President, I would like to I want to ask Mikael Damberg my question. After some serious acts of violence came the drop, and that was when a 15-year-old boy in Malmö was shot last November. Then began what is called a national event. It was called Rimfrost. In the past we have had a national event after the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan in Stockholm and after the forest fires. So it's the police that's been working on Operation Rimfrost. The aim was to reduce the number of blasts and shootings, increase the seizures of firearms and explosives and reduce the number of gang criminals – this can be done both by arresting them and by making them leave the crime – and to increase public security, including through visible police officers. Rimfrost has been going on for a while now. How'd it go?
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-349	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hillevi Larsson, for an important question! Operation Rimfrost has been rolling for a few months now. I was in Malmö on Monday and met the police to hear how they feel it has gone. Their picture is that the reinforcements they have received have made a difference. I believe that many Malmöers feel that there has been a greater presence and that much of the open drug sales have been knocked out or disrupted in a completely different way. The police had a press conference earlier today and reported what the action has led to so far: 192 are detained, 247 searches have been made and 293 weapons and 63 kilos of explosives have been seized. It is clear that it will have an effect when the police gather together in this way. However, we need to evaluate it properly and see what the overall effect is. The police also announced that they are now moving some resources towards Uppsala, where they see problems with gang crime.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-354	Mr President, I would like to I have noticed the increased presence in Malmö. I live there. Not long ago, I was out cycling and saw a total of three police cars stopping vehicles along the road. The arrests went very calmly, but it still showed that something happened. It is encouraging that this kind of effort can have an effect. It shows that it is possible to crack gang crime. It is only a matter of continuing on this track and spreading efforts to more areas.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-356	Mr President, I would like to I really think Hillevi's right. It's possible. Once we have all the resources, it hits the gangs. It'll work. However, it is important to tell Malmö, who would not be alone in this, that the police will continue to have additional resources in Malmö even if they move resources also towards Uppsala. This work should be long-term. There will be setbacks. But it has turned out that when we hit this hard way, it will have an effect.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-359	Mr President, I would like to I have been following the Sametinget plenary in Umeå for a few days. Several of Minister Lind's responsibilities were discussed extensively. It concerns the funding of culture, the desire for a Sami national scene, Sami sports, especially of young people, and languages. There was a lot of discussion about the Sami Truth Commission to be carried out. Some Members feel that nothing is happening. One explanation is that Sametinget lacks funding for the anchoring work that needs to be done in the run-up to the Commission's work. It is, of course, an important issue for the Sami people. We in the Green Party have gone to elections to strengthen indigenous peoples' self-determination and influence. We want Sweden to sign ILO Convention 169 on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and for Sweden to take responsibility and provide redress for historical abuse. Therefore, I wonder if the Government can inform us about the work of the Truth Commission right now and about the next plans.
i-LStEw8ip66uDVqaxWdChWq	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Camilla Hansén, for the question! It is important that we make visible the abuses and violations that have been committed against our national minorities and against the indigenous Sami. We see that more and more countries, not least in the Nordic countries, are taking the steps and introducing truth commissions or truth and reconciliation commissions. I am pleased that the government was able to announce a week or so ago that we are going to introduce a Truth Commission for tornadoes, lantalaiset and kväner, after close dialogue with that group. We have also had a close dialogue with the Sameting on the introduction of a Commission of Truth. The government has announced that we will introduce one. We are currently looking at the question of the means of the anchoring process. It is important both that the issue of such a Commission is deeply rooted in the minority group in question, that it is from there that the issues are raised, and that we are working on it in a sensitive and careful manner. But there will be a commission of truth.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-365	Mr President, I would like to The Government answered both the question and my two supplementary questions in one and the same answer. Thank you!
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-367	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Hultqvist. The total defence consists of two parts: the military defence and the civil defence. Both must be in place for the overall total defence to be able to solve its tasks in the event of increased preparedness and war. The government has given information on how it views funding in the field of military defence, but not in the field of civil defence. The defence committee has stated in broad political agreement that the costs of the proposal to strengthen the civil defence and total defence that the preparation has submitted together amount to SEK 4.2 billion per year at the end of the defence decision period 2021 – 2025. My question is whether the Government and Government are behind the level of funding that the Defence Committee has set for civil defence.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-371	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. Since I am responsible for civil defence, I think it should be me who answers the question. That is exactly what the questioner says. There are currently no funds available for the entire initiative that existed in the Swedish Defence Committee's report. What is set aside is the first part, slightly over SEK 400 million annually, to build up civil defence and to develop those bases and work with planning. It is a readmission effort that is now taking place. At the moment, there is a mission for some 20 monitoring authorities to come to the government on the basis of the Swedish Defence Committee's report with an analysis of which measures should be prioritised. They should be costed so that we can calculate the costs and opportunities to move forward and in which priority areas we should do so in order to ensure that total defence as a whole gets the best possible development.
i-UevihEq2Vcp5hCiMALPp6Z	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister Damberg. Since the government stated in the 2015 total defense decision that the planning for total defence would be resumed, five years have passed. And the security policy situation has deteriorated further during this period. It is important not to drag this along, now that there is a broad political consensus in the Committee on Defence on funding.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-376	Mr President, I would like to There are no thoughts of pulling anything on a long bench. But we have to do the right thing. Sweden has decommissioned a large part of the civil defence and will now rebuild it on the basis of new conditions. It is about changes in the world, digitalisation and also that many things that were previously in the public domain are now under private control. Therefore, civil defence deployment will have to take place in a slightly different way. And that is why we need a basis that allows us to make the right and correct decision when we are going to resume civil defence.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-379	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Mikael Damberg. Today the verdict came in the high-profile humiliation robbery where an immigrant gang peed on their victim, as we heard last week. Everyone was convicted. But no one went to jail, and no one was expelled. So we have another young victim who may have had his life broken down but who will never get redress. In fact, fewer than half of the people who come to our country and commit a serious crime are being deported. Most people get to stay and normally come out on the streets quite quickly again. I wonder how many more people will have to be beaten and humiliated, how many more will have to be murdered, shot or blown up, and how many more girls will be raped before the government understands that we need to jail and or expel all the people who commit this kind of serious crime.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-383	Mr President, I would like to I will condemn every violent crime, every robbery and every assault. That is totally unacceptable. That is why I explained in a previous reply that the police are building on this, that we are changing the regulations so that the police will always investigate this type of crime and that the government has presented a new youth sanction that means that you can both put a foothold on the young people who behave badly and can ground them. We have an expansion of more police officers present and have ensured that we have a system that allows us to set up more cameras to increase the security of that group. In addition, there is the discussion on the youth discount, which will change in the future. However, I would like to warn those who want to use that type of crime to polarise society. I understand that there are political forces that want to use it to create more contradictions in society. I don't think it's good and I want to warn you about it. We have seen very serious crimes of violence also in our neighbouring countries, where people have gone too far because of their immigrant hostility. I do not want to see that in Sweden.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-387	Mr President, I would like to My question was not about anklets, curfews or whether the government condemns violent crimes. It was about whether the Minister of the Interior thinks that the person who commits a serious crime – say that you come to Sweden and are convicted of rape – should be in prison. If so, should we be expelled, in all cases?
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-388	Mr President, I would like to I have already said that Swedish legislation recognises the expulsion of serious crimes. That is the main rule if you commit serious crimes in Sweden, and that is how it should be. I don't think you should have any other ambition. However, I would warn parties against using violent crimes in some form of logic to increase polarisation in society. I would like to remind you of what Mr Säpo has said: violent right-wing ideology benefits from harsh rhetoric and increased polarisation. We have seen this not least recently in Germany. I would therefore like to warn against that.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-391	Mr President, I would like to I, too, would like to ask Minister Mikael Damberg a question. This week we have seen major floods along the west coast. Henån, Grebbestad, Fjällbacka and not least Uddevalla suffered severe floods on Monday. At a time of increasing climate change, which is also becoming increasingly visible, forest fires, storms and floods will become more common. It requires climate adjustments and more improvement measures to reduce the impact of this. There is a great deal of responsibility at both local and national level.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-394	Mr President, I would like to I have an overall responsibility for crisis management in society and can therefore, of course, respond to this. My specific responsibility also applies to the Swedish Civil Protection Agency. It is an authority that provides additional resources in the form of management capacity, the Rachel system and additional equipment in the event of major accidents. In recent years, the Authority has strengthened its preparedness. Efforts have now been made in West Sweden in connection with the high water levels that have arisen. Several authorities have collaborated and worked together to have a readiness so that they can make efforts there. As regards forest fires, which were also mentioned, today we have a much stronger preparedness to deal with large forest fires than we had before. It is in the form of training, equipment and flying resources such as helicopters, which have proved to be working very well. However, long-term climate adaptation work is also needed, for which various authorities are responsible. In some cases, municipalities may receive State aid for this.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-398	Mr President, I would like to After the forest fires, Sweden gained a great insight that more needed to be done. MSB has increased its reinforcement resources, including fire depots and fire-extinguishing aircraft. The Center Party was the first out of all parties to demand that Sweden buy in its own plan in order to have a better capacity. We are happy about this. The floods are also a consequence of climate change. Will the government work to strengthen the capacity to deal with flooding in the future?
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-400	Mr President, I would like to MSB works to provide reinforcement resources in the event of floods and similar events. There are also more authorities involved in this. Since I usually get KU-reported for discussions on numbers and the like in debates, I would like to say that MSB is doing a procurement of possible aircraft. This is not yet clear. What is clear is the helicopter resource, which will also be available this summer.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-402	Mr President, I would like to Let us move on to a completely different subject. I have a question for the Minister for Development. According to the government, freedom of religion and belief is a priority in foreign policy. But what happens concretely? It is not possible to operate in developing countries without competence about the role of religion and how to use religious leaders to bring about change. Today, Sida lacks tools to analyse and handle religious freedom issues in development cooperation. Similarly, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has no continuous competence development. Recently I met the Swedish Mission Council who said that they would like to contribute to the work and educate both the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and Sida. There are certainly other organisations that can do this. How does the Minister for Development view raising religious issues in aid work? How does he want to ensure that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and Sida has the necessary expertise?
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-406	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for an important question! This year we have increased the administrative grant for Sida by SEK 150 million. There is a sharp increase, and such an increase has not been made in over ten years, despite the increase in aid appropriations. This means that Sida in the future will have considerably more resources to hire people on the ground in different countries where we seem to have the skills to be included in the various programmes and projects that we run. In addition, we have launched a major democracy offensive that strengthens human rights and democracy in all our aid countries.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-408	Mr President, I would like to Yes, but Sida does not have any tools, as I understand it. I do not hear that the so-called 'democrat offensive' highlights the need to address religious leaders. We know that over 70% of the world's population lives in countries where there are different restrictions on freedom of religion and belief in society. This creates tensions, violence, conflicts, persecution and so on. This is what we are working to counter. How is this going to go on, from your side?
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-411	Mr President, I would like to As the grant increases this year, it will of course take a number of months before Sida starts hiring and can implement such a fairly comprehensive change. We will also gradually strengthen the work of all the strategies that we have and which form the basis of our international aid work. I also see that in the current international conflicts of violence, religion is often a central issue. I fully agree that there is a need for reinforcement here.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-414	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. Swedish defence is in a phase of growth and will be so in the coming years. It's an important message. Although a great deal of work remains to be done before we can make a specialization decision for the period 2021 – 2025, we can see that there is funding in place. It means a very strong strengthening of our defence economy. An important basis for future decisions is the Swedish Defence Committee's work and reports. It notes, among other things, that there are a number of areas in our country that are particularly important – strategically important – in the event of a crisis or a war. One such designated area is my hometown of Östersund, including its location as an important hub for western connections. My question to the Minister for Defence is: How does he value the need to strengthen the military presence around Östersund and in Jämtland County?
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-418	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. It is natural that issues such as this come up at a time when we are going to conduct defence negotiations on a future orientation proposal. We decided to carry out an investment on Gotland, based on the fact that there was no permanent military representation there. It was about building a hub to be able to guard themselves. In this way an important signal could also be given to the Baltic States, Finland and the Swedish mainland. The Dominance of Gotland has a direct impact on all these areas. Any new entity we build up or new geographical location as we do should have a military strategic starting point. What we have found in these negotiations remains to be seen. It is too early today to draw such conclusions. But I am well informed about the different ambitions and arguments of all stakeholders.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-421	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. My question, of course, reflects the commitment to the development of defence, which is very clear in my constituency. It is probably also an expression of what I believe the Minister for Defence emphasises in his response, namely the need to focus on military needs and not allow other interests to get in their way. This is, of course, a message that I and many others welcome. I therefore thank you for your answer.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-422	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much.
i-PRQ9ZFJNQH4DR7VXyWo9ps	Mr President, I would like to On November 12, 2019, the European Commission gave Telia the go-ahead to buy Bonnier Broadcasting. As of December 2, last year, Telia formally took over the company. The deal points to some critical issues: media dominance, government needs and state ownership. A clear example of this is how the State is given direct and indirect control of most of the news media in the national media. Such media domination in other countries tends to render debate in our country. My question goes to Minister of Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind : Does the Minister consider it problematic that the state risks gaining a dominant position in the media market with Telia's acquisition of Bonnier Broadcasting?
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-425	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that Telia's acquisition of Bonnier Broadcasting was not something the government wanted. Nor is the government a majority shareholder in Telia. Media pluralism is central to government media policy. I would like to deny that the government would in this way create control over these media players. A free and independent journalism is absolutely central. In terms of public service, we have very many different mechanisms to secure the distance from both parliament and government. This also applies, of course, to this case. This is absolutely central. I welcome the fact that the Commission carried out a thorough analysis and review of Telia's business based on the competitive situation. I also note that, in connection with the acquisition of Bonnier Broadcasting, Telia made certain commitments whereby distributors other than Telia should also be offered access to TV4 and other things – the payment services and Play channels included in Bonnier Broadcasting. I expect Telia to live up to the commitments of good competition in the Swedish television market.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-428	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a supplementary question. How will the Government and the Government follow up on this and promote free competition in the media market, so that it does not become a monopoly position? I would like an answer to that question.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-429	Mr President, I would like to Issues related to Telia and corporate governance must be addressed to Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. But it is clear that, as a media manager, I am defending media pluralism. This means, among other things, a free and independent public service. We have worked to strengthen local journalism. We have worked with media support to ensure that we have journalism throughout the country. Of course I will continue to follow this issue closely.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-431	Mr President, I would like to Homelessness among Sweden's elderly is increasing. This is an enormous betrayal of the vulnerable people who need society's care most. It is unworthy of a welfare country like Sweden. In its work on social change, the government has prioritised individuals other than those who built up our welfare. It's really time to change that now. I would therefore like to ask Minister Mikael Damberg: Does the government promise that no pensioners will ever again have to end their days alone, abandoned and homeless, completely betrayed by society?
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-433	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for an important question about the elderly who have built up our society and who deserve our respect but also our care in the autumn of age. It is important to see that municipalities have a housing supply responsibility that they should take. This applies to all residents, including, of course, the elderly. The government has taken the initiative to ensure that housing is also built that ordinary people can afford to live in, not least rental apartments. Unfortunately, this was one of the budget lines that was deleted when the M-KD budget was supported by the Swedish Democrats – the entire investment support was deleted. Now it is back again with the January cooperation agreement. So far it has been well built somewhere around 29 000 apartments with pressed rents, which also come older. There is a special part about also providing support for building older people's housing, so that older people have more places to live and can feel safe even in the autumn of their age.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-436	Mr President, I would like to In the Swedish Democrats' budget, we chose to convert the entire investment aid into more general support for the municipalities in order for them to be able to decide for themselves where the money best belongs in their own municipality. In our budget, we have also allocated an extra 1 billion to municipalities in terms of care for the elderly. Let us hope that our budget will win at some point in this House, which it has not yet done.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-437	Mr President, I would like to I can only say that the investment aid that went to building rental apartments with pressed rents was deleted, exactly what many of those who do not have so fat wallets need. Now we've put it back again. Unfortunately, it was not done with the help of the Swedish Democrats, but by the four parties that cooperate in connection with the January agreement. But I think we're going to have to build more like ordinary people can afford to demand. Then it must be rental apartments that we choose to prioritize.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-439	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Culture and Democracy. Yesterday came a report from the Christian Council of Sweden. It says that every other Christian youth feels violated for his faith. The Minister is responsible for the religions. The report includes the Church of Sweden. The Archbishop commented on this yesterday on TV4 and said that there is no freedom of religion in Sweden when young people need to hide their faith or are violated in school.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-442	Mr President, I would like to I thank Marcus Jonsson for highlighting this important issue. We have freedom of religion in Sweden, and we shall have freedom of religion in Sweden. Therefore, it is deeply serious that so many Swedish Christian youths feel that they cannot be open with their faith. It's totally reprehensible. I have been in conversation with representatives of both Christian communities and many other communities. Even Muslims and Jews are experiencing this threat to themselves. It is deeply serious for our democracy that you do not feel that you can be who you are without being exposed. The government has an offensive effort to counter threats and hatred. This applies, of course, for whatever reason. I myself believe that the right to express one's faith and stand for one's being and identity is a human right. This is high in that work.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-446	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I am pleased to hear the government's willingness to stand up for this and the emphasis on freedom of religion in the country. However, I would like to ask the Minister whether there is also an understanding on the part of the government that there is a political discussion between political representatives and opinion-formers, which contributes to the stigmatisation of believers. Regrettably, we are seeing the suspicion of principals of confessional free schools. Do you see it as part of people's feeling violated and alienated and feeling that their faith is under suspicion?
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-448	Mr President, I would like to The government is working on several things at the same time. We must be able to stand up for freedom of religion, work offensively against threats and hatred and stand up for everyone's opportunity to be who you are here in Sweden without being exposed. We are also working on issues relating to, for example, confessional free schools, which are a difficult issue. Students– people, children– should have the right to stand for their religion and have access to their religion, but also, of course, be free from it and be free from being unduly influenced. We have to stand up for this at the same time. Freedom of religion is absolutely central in Sweden.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-450	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind. A museum is a forum where the past meets the present, so also in Norrköping, where the City Museum now shows the exhibition Medruneri och resistance – Nazism i Norrköping then and now. This exhibition has been very noticed by the media. One reason is that someone placed a bag containing glasses, soaps and an anti-Semitic image outside the entrance – a clear and threatening message. But most talked about is the exhibition because SD's chairman in Norrköping has chosen to report the exhibition to the police. What does the Minister of Culture do to ensure that museums in the future should not be intimidated to become self-censoring and thus not dare to create exhibitions that could be perceived as provocative?
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-453	Mr President, I would like to I thank Åsa Karlsson for the question. Of course, I am extremely concerned that there are politicians around Sweden who unfortunately take far too lightly the principle of arm's length. This principle is absolutely essential, not least as regards the important tasks of museums as free opinion-makers, cultural heritage institutions and knowledge-dissociators. We introduced a museum law last parliamentary term that makes it clear that the museums themselves should decide on the activities, i.e. that politicians should not go in and make decisions related to the content of the activities. As a minister, of course, I cannot comment on an individual case and whether or not it was a violation of the Museum Act. But when the Museum Act is challenged, it is important that we discuss it. Sweden's museums are doing an enormous job of supporting the museum heads in how to interpret the law, and I believe that knowledge is still needed. But this is a law that all museum heads have to follow throughout the country.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-456	Mr President, I would like to In his reply, the Minister mentions the important concept of arm's length. It is a motto that we repeat over and over again, because the content of culture should be independent of political influence. But how can we ensure that?
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-457	Mr President, I would like to Culture has an enormous power, and that is why it is so important that it should be free and not risk being ruled by those who sit on political power and their specific ideology. A few months ago, I and the government commissioned the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis to analyse the situation of the arm's length distance principle and how it is applied, both in municipalities and nationally. I believe that will provide us with good knowledge and a good basis for continuing to safeguard this important principle in the future.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-460	Mr President, I would like to The security, security and defence of our part of the world, in the North Atlantic area, are practically impossible to imagine without Britain. The country is extremely important for this area. Unfortunately, since 31 January, the United Kingdom is no longer part of the European Union. This means that the country is also not part of Article 42(7) of the Treaty of Lisbon on security, which provides mutual support and assistance in the event of various pressures. However, the UK can give it as a NATO country – to other NATO countries. This means that Sweden has lost a possible important ally by not having any security guarantees with the UK since 31 January.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-464	Mr President, I would like to The day after the UK had carried out the referendum on leaving the EU, the then Minister of Defence called me and announced that no matter what happens with Brexit, the UK's obligations to Europe and the cooperation it has with Sweden will continue. We have a 54-point agreement with the United Kingdom, one of the most comprehensive cooperation agreements with any country. We are part of the British-led JEF force. We have an agreement with the United Kingdom on studies of the next generation of fighter aircraft, that is, after 2040. Britain also participates in the exercise activities in our part of Europe. I believe that we have a close friend in the UK and a comprehensive and well-functioning cooperation that should continue. The current British Minister for Defence is also very clear about this.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-468	Mr President, I would like to We Moderates want to remove the penalty discount for adults between 18 and 21 years of age altogether. What the government wants is very unclear. After the gang talks, the government presented a proposal to limit the rebate marginally for those who committed serious, repeated crime. Everyone else would continue to receive the discount. The day before yesterday, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights dealt with a motion for a resolution which included this issue. At the sitting session, the Social Democrats and the Green Party changed their mind – they joined a reservation from the Liberals and the Center Party which means that the penalty rebate is abolished for all over 18 years of age who are not first-time criminals. Just a few hours later, Chairman of the Committee on Justice Fredrik Lundh Sammeli went out and said that he had not changed his position. What's the big deal? You're hating a little bit back and forth on this issue. What does the government want?
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-473	Mr President, I would like to Many different measures are needed. There is a need for increased punishment for gang-related crime. There is a need for a new youth sanction that can be targeted at young people between the ages of 15 and 17, when we see that today's efforts there are not quite enough. But there is also a need for a change in the youth discount. All parties agree that today's regulation cannot continue. I see that yesterday's action in committee is fully in line with what we said earlier. To remove the entire penalty, which the Moderates run, did not receive support in committee. This is the starting point for the government when we continue to work on our proposal in the near future.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-475	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. It concerns environmental toxins and the traces of military practice activities in Sweden. I was happy and hopeful when I heard in the news a couple of weeks ago that the government is giving the Swedish Armed Forces the task of planning and cleaning up land where there may be traces of environmental toxins after military practice activities. I am thinking in particular of perfluorinated alkyl acids, also known as PFAS, which are used as an effective additive in fire foam but for us humans are toxic. Where we have used fire foam, there may be PFAS. These may later harm animals, nature and humans. How's work going? What's the defense minister's target picture, and what potential does he see in his work?
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-479	Mr President, I would like to The task of the Swedish Armed Forces is to develop an action plan for areas contaminated by so-called high-fluorinated substances, such as PFAS, by 1 June 2020. So we should come back with this this year. By 22 February 2021, measures taken and planned in relation to contaminated sites shall be reported and effective methods of post-treatment of contaminated sites shall be found. That is the work that is now ahead of us and which we have to come back to.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-481	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put my question to Minister of Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind. I became active in politics because I wanted to change, improve and of course be able to influence. What we can influence today will also lead to improvements in the future. When I think of the future, I think of our children and young people and their upbringing, security and feeling. There are three major concerns that I see right now, in three different areas. It is the increasing number of crimes against young people, the increasing mental illness and the growing obesity of children. These are three quite different areas. How can you get this together? There is much to do, and it is, of course, prevention that is the most important thing. Mr President, I would like to I see an important area that brings all these issues together, and that is youth sport. We have previously talked about its importance for health. The government chose to reduce the state subsidy to youth sports by 20 million. Instead, the Moderates want to raise it by 200 million in order to be able to invest in youth sports, especially in exclusion areas. Why did they choose youth sports? It contributes far more than sport itself. It's much more upbringing. Prevention is important. Does the Minister want to invest more in prevention, or does the Minister think that it has invested enough? Unfortunately, we see that these particular concerns are increasing.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-488	Mr President, I would like to This is a big and important question that the Member of Parliament is asking. We have a huge challenge on the public health side in Sweden. It is about fewer people moving, about food and diet and about mental illness. I am also responsible for youth policy. There we are currently working on a new youth policy letter for the Riksdag, where we will take action against certain areas where we need to continue working particularly intensively. I see that the letter will contain ambitions, objectives and actions related to the mental health of children and young people, where movement is of course an important part. I have said before that we have introduced 100 hours more sport in school. This is, of course, an important measure. The government spent almost 200 million on the sports movement last term. We are carrying out efforts to develop our school centres and environments in order for young people to be able to move more easily. There are many things we need to do, and I look forward to continuing.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-492	Mr President, I would like to During the metoo roll call was also made a call in the defense, Give the act and bite together. The Swedish Armed Forces have been actively working for many years to improve attitudes and values linked to the Swedish Armed Forces' values and women's ability to operate in the agency. Yet in the media we can continuously read about cases after cases. In November, for example, an officer was criticized for sexual harassment and for using his position in various ways. Despite this, he was allowed to keep his job and continue to have staff responsibilities. I would therefore like to put a question to the Minister for Defence, Mr President. These are very nice words, but still in some places there seems to be a pretty strong culture because this is happening. What does the Minister intend to do to bring this to an end? I don't want to hear that it's just the Armed Forces' responsibility. The Secretary of Defense is still most responsible.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-494	Mr President, I would like to There is a special arrangement for how to control authorities in Sweden and for where the boundaries between the government and the authority's responsibilities go. It is very important that this system is maintained so that we have sensible responsibilities. Otherwise, the minister concerned also risks being notified to the KU. As far as the way we act is concerned, it is a matter of regulating this by means of regulatory letters. This has also been mentioned in many discussions with the Swedish Armed Forces. I know that the Swedish Armed Forces' leadership prioritises this and has as an important objective to process attitudes within the Swedish Armed Forces and that this is something that is taken seriously. I myself have talked to the ÖB a number of times about these issues. There is no disagreement on this at management level. However, there are cases from time to time. I know that the Armed Forces are working on this and that they do not accept it.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-497	Mr President, I would like to In the light of the new export and investment strategy and the Government's ambition to drive free and fair international trade, Tobias Andersson has asked me how the Government intends to act to influence China in this direction, both in the work of multilateral organisations like the WTO and in bilateral and diplomatic talks. I would like to begin by agreeing with Tobias Andersson's view that China's action today is challenging the international trading system. For example, there is significant state interference in the Chinese economy and there are problems with lack of transparency and insufficient protection of intellectual property rights. These challenges have also already been highlighted in the Government's letter The work on issues related to China( 2018/19:18), which was debated here in the Riksdag in December. The letter is the first occasion when a Swedish government has presented a comprehensive approach to China. The fact that we have presented this letter is an expression of the importance the government attaches to Sweden's relations with China and what China's emergence means to us. As we point out in the letter, we want to develop trade with China on the part of the government. At the same time, the aspect of the multilateral trading system in the WTO is fundamental to Sweden's and the EU's trade policy. The fact that we have a functioning trading system is at all fundamental for Sweden as a trade-dependent country. The government therefore supports the EU's efforts to modernise the WTO. This requires the involvement of all WTO members, including China, in the process. The government will therefore be the driving force for the EU and like-minded people to engage China in the reform of the WTO. With regard to the status of developing country, the WTO usually talks about special and differential treatment, and it is the government's assessment that China's use of special and differential treatment needs to be better adapted to its level of development. We also see that the system of special and differential treatment needs to be reformed for several reasons. Developed countries should not be able to use the system unjustly, but at the same time, of course, the needs of countries with a low level of development must be taken into account. China is an important player in this process, but it is a question of finding a system that is reasonable for all WTO Member States. Within the framework of the EU's market access strategy, the Government is working continuously to identify and remove barriers to trade for Swedish companies in other countries, including China. The government also supports the EU's consistent monitoring, in the framework of the WTO's regular committee work, of important trading partners, in particular China, compliance with the rules and recourse to WTO dispute settlement when warranted. In order for this work to work, it is crucial to find a solution with regard to the WTO Appellate Body. Here too, dialogue with China is important. Having said that, there are many elements of China's economic policy that are not yet governed by WTO agreements or any other agreement that the EU has with China. It is therefore important that we push for the EU, for example, to finalise an investment agreement with China. Such an agreement should also include rules on state-owned enterprises. In addition, Sweden and the EU are actively committed to engaging China in constructive cooperation in the International Working Group on Export Credits. The government consistently highlights these challenges in the bilateral dialogue with Chinese representatives at different levels.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-507	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Minister Anna Hallberg for her reply. Initially, I would like to express my appreciation for the fact that Anna Hallberg and thus the government seem to share my view with the Swedish democrats that China is challenging the international trading system. I myself am ready to go so far as to say that if China is allowed to continue, we risk ending up in a situation where they not only challenge but also risk destroying the international trading system. I also noted that Anna Hallberg, during the meeting with a couple of her European counterparts this week, expressed the importance of listening to the criticism that the United States has repeatedly raised against the World Trade Organisation. This applies not least to the possibility of defining oneself as a development economy, which the question of this interpellation partly touches upon. At the same time, Anna Hallberg does not give a clear answer to the questions in my interpellation. The Government mentions that the system needs to be changed but avoids black and white pointing out that the definition of China in the WTO context should be changed per se. Mr President, I would like to The Government will be happy to develop its position on this issue in its next speech. However, I would also like to point out in this speech that Anna Hallberg, in her initial reply, clarified the Government's desire to develop trade with China, as has been stated in the previous letter on the work on issues relating to China, among other things. The Swedish Democrats, of course, see no problem with this as long as trade takes place on fair terms. Unfortunately, it cannot be said that this is the case today. For this reason, I find it worrying that the government in the export and investment strategy has, as one of five main objectives, to increase foreign investment in Sweden, without any sound legislation in place to control the security policy aspects or to ensure that the Chinese state does not, through various direct or indirect state-owned companies, compete with Swedish operators on unfair terms. This is particularly relevant in the light of Totalförsvarets forskningsinstitut's survey of Chinese corporate acquisitions in Sweden. This set out a clear pattern in which the business areas of the acquired companies were well aligned with those of the Chinese regime as important in their great-power ambitions. Given this obvious problem, I find it strange to have a clear ambition in the export and investment strategy for additional foreign investment when we know that there is no wise control in this area. The least one can ask is that the government had at least problematized this in the export and investment strategy. Perhaps the Government can do so in this interpellation debate. The Government has, of course, set up an investigation, but it will only make proposals in November 2021 on what a Swedish system for reviewing foreign direct investment in protected areas could look like. In view of this, I would like to ask the Minister whether she sees a risk that we do not have adequate legislation in place for the time being to examine and limit foreign direct investment where it could be problematic.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-517	Mr President, I would like to In the new export and investment strategy, we set out our views on the global trading system. I can start in that area. Our priority is to promote and be a strong voice for free, fair and sustainable world trade. That is also why I convened a number of like-minded countries here this week, as Tobias Andersson mentioned. We can look at China in this context. In the letter on China – we also welcome Parliament's agreement on that letter – we have also described how we intend to work within the EU on trade policy towards China. It is here that, as in so many other areas, it is important that we bring Europe together and try to be a strong voice. We will be so much stronger if we do so together in the European Union and also have a trade policy that we can rally around. In the rules-based trading system, the WTO is a base and a central starting point. China's compliance with the WTO acquis is of particular importance. As far as an economy as large as China is concerned, it is particularly important for confidence in the entire global trading system to comply with the WTO rules. That is why we must involve China in the WTO work and the necessary reform and modernisation of the WTO that must take place. China is failing. That is where we agree with the United States, and I think I agree with Tobias Andersson here too. There is a lack of transparency in the notification of its subsidies under the WTO Subsidies Agreement. It has been raised by the European Union on several occasions. The WTO Secretariat has also noted shortcomings in China's notifications of agricultural subsidies, state-trade companies and so on. The EU has put forward a number of proposals to the WTO on how to strengthen the regulatory framework and enforcement. I would also like to mention another area that is important and which is commented on in the export and investment strategy, and that is the export credit instruments. It is an extremely important tool and competitive means. It could also call into question China's compliance with WTO rules. So there are a number of areas where I do not want to back away from problematising China's compliance. What do we do from Sweden? After all, we have been working for a long time to get China involved in the international group, for example for export credits, but also generally for the reform of the WTO. We have been particularly proactive, not least myself as Minister of Trade, in the discussion on the WTO system of special and differential treatment for developing countries, which Tobias Andersson refers to. We have really been a driving force there and last week we discussed how we can reform this. Sweden has also funded a study in this area in order to find a way forward. It is a sensitive and difficult issue, and it also affects many developing countries that need this definition. Although this study does not specifically concern China, it is obviously China's obligations under the exception, and their rights and obligations are an important part of the discussion. One should certainly also be able to argue about China's use of this special and differentiated treatment. It must be adapted to the current level of development in China. That's where we're in complete agreement. At the same time, it should be remembered that we cannot just rely on the WTO. The WTO regulates far from anything that can affect international trade and competition, and there are many parts of China's economic policy that are regulated outside the WTO. It is therefore important that the EU push ahead on a number of issues, including investment agreements. I will not be able to go into that in this speech, but I will come back to this with investments, because it is very important to be able to keep the balance between foreign investment and our security aspects.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-527	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Minister and I share in many respects the view on global trade and the importance of reformation of the WTO. I also look forward to the Minister for Trade's reply on direct investment. I choose not to continue on that ball now, but to give the Minister the opportunity to develop this at a later date. Instead, I intended to touch on another part of the export and investment strategy. Under Objective 2, More SMEs will export, the government writes the following: 中 Diversity in the labour force is important for the internationalisation of Swedish companies. Many foreign-born entrepreneurs have networks, contacts and knowledge in their home countries. These represent a resource for export efforts and should be used. ..................................................... This is a formulation worth examining. It goes without saying that trade and economic exchange follow in the wake of human movement. New arrivals may import some food from their home countries, and money is sent home and so on. It is also possible to imagine that some establish activities in Sweden that specifically focus on engaging in some form of trade with partners in their home country. This is, of course, a good thing to the extent that it does, but that it would be a resource for export efforts, as the government thinks, I am somewhat critical of. Having said that, it is not impossible that the government has been able to distinguish some form of correlation between trade and immigration and, in my opinion, wrongly interpreted this causally. The government has probably seen that Swedish exports to states such as the United States, China and India are relatively large, while the share of residence permits granted to citizens from these states is high. For example, Indians were the group that was awarded the most Swedish residence permits in 2019, and both China and the United States are among the top 15. After this observation, the government may have come to a conclusion without examining the figures more carefully and without excluding the other variables. Other factors could be that the USA, India and China are among the largest economies in the world and that there have long been deep business relations between our states. In my opinion, it is far more likely that trade has generated migration from these states than the reverse. It is, of course, possible to further refute the government's thesis. In addition to Chinese and Indian citizens were found from the following top ten countries in 2019: Syria, Afghanistan, Thailand, Pakistan, Eritrea, Iraq, Iran and Turkey. These include only Turkey among Sweden's 30 largest trading partners in terms of exports in 2019. The share of Sweden's exports of goods to these eight states is approximately 1.3 per cent. If Turkey is subtracted from the equation, we are down to about half a percent of total goods exports. At the same time, Germany and Norway alone account for more than 21 percent of our goods exports, even though they end up in place 103 and 163 respectively in terms of the number of residence permits distributed in 2019. Mr President, I would like to This is hopefully not unknown figures and conditions for the Swedish Minister for Trade. I therefore wonder about the wording of the export and investment strategy that indicates that immigration generates exports. I would like Anna Hallberg to clarify what the government is referring to this and to the facts I have highlighted.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-538	Mr President, I would like to I will begin by commenting on the question of Chinese direct investment in Sweden. I would like to start by saying that Sweden has an open economy and a strong emphasis on free trade. I have stressed that in the past. In this is also to affirm the value of foreign investment in Sweden. It is extremely important for the whole of Sweden to live and for us to get more jobs in Sweden and also for us to attract capital and competence to the whole country. I hope that there is broad support for this approach in Parliament. Having said that, we must not be naive. We must balance the will to attract investment and talent with a security aspect in this area. This applies not only to China, which we are discussing here today, but to all countries and all investments. We are, of course, aware by the government of security problems that may arise from acquisitions, in particular the acquisition of sensitive infrastructure and technologies. At EU level, a regulation has now been negotiated to establish a framework for the examination of foreign direct investment (FDI) and will apply in October of this year, 2020. We, on the part of the government, are in favour of that regulation. This also clarifies the right of Member States to introduce national review mechanisms under the WTO acquis. We also see the benefits within the EU of exchanging information on investments in sensitive infrastructure and technology. Here again, Europe is central. As Tobias Andersson mentioned, in August last year the government commissioned Sten Heckscher to make proposals on how a specific Swedish system for reviewing foreign direct investment in protected areas can be designed. We can then go to the issue of trade with the home country, if we put it that way. The number of permits granted to people from a number of countries mentioned above is not, of course, a result of the migration policy we have had on the basis that it should be export opportunities. It is a completely different driving force or an entirely different approach that has meant that a number of people from countries that we normally do not have, and may not have previously had, a comprehensive trade with have been granted a residence permit in Sweden. What I mean, as Minister of Commerce and on the basis of my experience in my previous career, is that there are great opportunities to use the cultural knowledge and bridges that we can build to trade with other countries, to the extent possible and to the extent possible in the political context. I see a fantastic opportunity with the new arrivals in Sweden. They can be used for a trade promotion purpose. It should be remembered that the main growth barrier for Swedish companies today is the lack of skills and talent. It is therefore no coincidence that the countries mentioned are high on the list of permits granted. We need that competence. But then there are other residence permits which have not been granted primarily for reasons of competence but for quite different reasons, namely protection reasons, which we know very well. We should still be able to benefit from these people in Sweden. They have a cultural knowledge and a knowledge of their homelands. It would be quite wrong if we did not use it in our trade and promotion policy.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-545	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again for the reply from the Minister for Trade. I can only keep my fingers crossed so that we can have a well-functioning mechanism for reviewing foreign direct investment in Sweden – to close the debate in this area. I will return to the wording of the export and investment strategy. It explicitly states that these people are a resource for export efforts and should be taken into account. And the Trade Minister himself expresses that it is a fantastic opportunity, given all new arrivals in Sweden. At the same time, at least I can't discern any kind of movement. We have had new arrivals for many years, and I have not been able to see that we have significantly strengthened our trade or exports to the states concerned. But the government claims this. If the government had not experienced such a connection, this would not have been included in the strategic document that should guide Swedish trade policy. I therefore find it directly remarkable that the Minister for Trade cannot clarify and explain a rather controversial claim in this context. When I look at SCB's figures for Swedish exports and the total figures for granted residence permits, I can't see a clear connection. And to the extent that it would be found, I consider it to be anything but causal. Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Trade has not been able to disprove me here, and that will probably lead to my final question. Nevertheless, the government has chosen to bring this in. It is seen as central to its export and investment policy. The question then is why such a formulation is included in the export and investment strategy if, in my opinion, it does not have a reasonable basis to confirm the claim. This has not come to light in the debate here.
i-d9acd0c8a9a477e7-550	Mr President, I would like to We started by talking about China. It feels like we are quite agreed that there are challenges and great opportunities regarding China and that Sweden should be a strong voice to maintain the global trading system and that we should bring China into that dialogue. We also agree that we need a balance between investment promotion and security thinking about our investments. I would like to return to the fact that it would be very unfortunate in my view if we did not use the great resources and knowledge of the commercial culture of other countries. It is about opportunities to export to other countries and about the entrepreneurship that has come in with a large part of the new arrivals in Sweden in recent years. I am convinced that we can greatly benefit from this in our trade promotion on the export side, but also in understanding how we can attract investments to Sweden to a greater extent, which we so badly need.
