i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-4	Madam President, I would like Kjell Jansson has asked me when and how I will set up a parliamentary committee to review and strengthen the constitutional property protection. In this context, he has also asked which parties and representatives will be included in it. Finally, Kjell Jansson has asked what measures I will take to strengthen property rights in the coming years and in what areas I see property rights failing today and therefore need to be strengthened. As everyone knows, the government is working fully to implement the substantive political agreement that was reached last January between the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals, the so-called January Agreement. It is a work that will continue. As a consequence of the January agreement, the Government has set up an investigation, the Forest Investigation, which has been tasked with proposing measures to strengthen ownership of forests, new flexible forms of protection and compensation for forest land protection and how international biodiversity commitments can be reconciled with a growing circular bioeconomy. The investigation shall present its proposals by 1 July 2020. In addition, in accordance with the January agreement, the Government intends to set up an investigation into species protection. The protection regulation will be reviewed in order to protect endangered species effectively and legally and to be clear to landowners when they are entitled to compensation. It is the Environment and Climate Minister who is responsible for these investigations. Having said that, I note that issues relating to the protection of property rights may arise in different contexts and in many different areas of law. Difficult trade-offs between individuals and general interests often need to be made not least in areas where health protection, environmental protection and security can justify restrictions on the protection of property rights. As can be seen, the investigations under way and planned have the task of considering and proposing a number of different legislative changes that are of great importance to landowners' rights. In addition, one of the declared aims of the Forest Investigation is to protect and strengthen private ownership of forests. It is above all issues related to ownership of forests that are the background to Parliament's announcement. I will therefore await the results of, among other things, the Forest investigation and see what changes may need to be made. In this context, I would also like to point out that the current design of property protection in the Constitution is the result of a comprehensive work that was done, in broad political consensus, in the Fundamental Law investigation. This came into force as late as 2011. Finally, a parliamentary committee is always made up of representatives from all parliamentary parties and is appointed on the basis of proposals from the respective party groups' offices. The distribution of members is proportionate.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-11	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It tells us what other investigations the government is doing and which are under the Ministry of the Environment but very little about what it intends to do to strengthen ownership. The Government has set up its own investigation into the ownership under paragraph 26 of the January Agreement. It will be very interesting to see what comes out of this given that it is an initiative of the Center Party and that the Government should take account of the Green Party. In June 2019, in KU's 2018/ 19:KU27 report, the Riksdag addressed an announcement to the Government to set up a parliamentary committee to review and strengthen constitutional property protection, hence my question to the Government. When will it be added? The government will be responsible for the answer. The chamber has decided. Ownership is constitutionally protected. Many land and forest owners today feel that ownership is gradually weakening. The basis for a functioning democracy, not least a market economy and entrepreneurship, is a strong ownership right. In some countries, the legal situation is unclear as to who owns what. This means that people do not dare to invest in land, real estate and entrepreneurship in these countries. I do not want Sweden to end up there. Ownership rights are increasingly being eroded in Sweden because several authorities take the right to decide how private land should be used. Let me give you a few examples. The latest one is wood warehouses. When forest owners are to harvest, they must lay their timber adjacent to the road in order for the trucks and transports to the paper mills to access the timber. This will now be paid for by the forest owners, although it is their own land. The declaration of forests due to biotope protection is in full swing. There are landowners who lose 50% of their stocks because of this, and I would argue that this reminds me of annexation. When it comes to the right to build on their own land, not least in the archipelago, the landowner may want a bridge to get out to his island, as well as having a garage to put his car in if you live on the mainland. There are increasingly lower compensations to landowners for infringement of the rights of way and the like. You just lay out stencils and decide what to pay, and there is no negotiation with the landowners. There will also be a decrease in value when a right of way is added. This is not being taken into account; it is simply laying out stencils. Individual officials make their own interpretations that are not legally secure. The state has become too strong through its authorities, and ownership is gradually weakening. The government does nothing about this, even though it has a responsibility to regulate by means of regulatory letters. Madam President, I would like Point 26 of the JÖK states that private ownership should be strengthened. Then my question to the Government will be: what steps will the Minister of Justice take to strengthen property rights? In which areas does the Minister of Justice consider there to be a lack of ownership?
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-21	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell Jansson, for your brand speech for ownership! It stands in stark contrast to the Government's response. I share the view of my fellow Member, Kjell Jansson, that ownership in the last five years has been the subject of an attack in Sweden. Individuals get caught up in the actions of both the government and the individual authorities. Let me take an example. LRF invited all members of parliament from Gävleborg to a small business owner in Bollnäs who lives on their forest farms. He's got no other job on the side. He lives off his forest farm. He's got land, and he's protecting it. I believe, unlike some authorities and possibly some individual ministers, that forest owners are protecting their land. After all, it is their money at the bank, and they have no interest whatsoever in mismanaging their land. Suddenly the small business owner received a message that he must not harvest his forest because a birdwatcher found a lichen on his shift. The consequence of this, Madam President, is that the small businessman in Bollnäs has no income. He lives on his forestry and becomes without income. This went to court, and I think he eventually had to go to court. This is just one example. We see similar situations with feathers. So Tjäder is a species of birds that we hunt. But now forest owners have been grounded because there has been some tjäder there. I find this worrying, and it creates legal uncertainty in the system. The Government's response refers to the January Agreement and that it has agreed with other parties. But I'm actually interested in knowing what the government thinks. What does the government think? Can the Minister be as clear and clear in this Chamber and in the speaker's chair as Kjell Jansson is? Is it in the soul and DNA of the Government that he stands up for ownership, the property that has served Sweden so well, and the entrepreneurship that has served Sweden so well? We can never accept a government activism. We can never accept the violation of property rights. It can of course be about political parties that have political ambitions. If this party were to be part of the government, one can step by step, letter by letter, restrict ownership in Sweden. But then it is important that we in the democratic parties, which stand up for democracy and property rights, put a stop – just like our colleague Kjell Jansson does in this interpellation. He says, "That's enough! That is exactly what we Moderates are saying. We stand up for inviolable property rights. We stand up for the landowners and for the entrepreneurs, and we do not doubt, for example, the forest owners. We believe that forest owners have every interest in protecting their land, protecting their forest and managing it in a good way that makes their capital grow and enables their forest to inherit their children. I would like to know whether the Government shares Kjell Jansson's view of inviolable property rights.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-29	Madam President, I would like Both Kjell Jansson and Lars Beckman seem to have read the answer terribly poorly. It is explicitly stated in the answer that the investigation that has been set up on the forest – not by me but by the Ministry of the Environment – aims to strengthen ownership of land and forests. I therefore have no problem whatsoever to say that it is clear that we should do so. It's in the January agreement. The new investigation, which is just about protecting species, is also aimed at the same thing. We will therefore strengthen the protection of property rights in terms of land and forests. But this can be done without constitutional amendment. That's also the point here. These changes can be implemented within the framework of the constitutions. That's really what we're after. Property protection in the Constitution is regulated in Chapter 2 of the Government Form. Section 15. We made changes there. I was a member of the Basic Law investigation, which brought together all the parties who were then in the Riksdag. We agreed on the wording on this. What did we do? Among other things, we changed the wording so that you can get full compensation for expropriation, for example. There was no such writing in the past. In addition, this was followed up a few years later by an extension of the compensation. It was implemented in 2010. Now it's actually overcompensation. Now you should not only get the market value if there needs to be an expropriation but actually the market value plus 25%. Ten years ago, overcompensation to landowners was actually carried out in the case of expropriations. In addition, there are, of course, special allowances for all restrictions of advice. I share the view that the owners have strong rights. That's it. But remember that there are other interests in society as well. This is not the only interest that exists in society. The public also has strong interests. This applies, for example, to the right of public access, which is an extremely appreciated part of Swedish society and which gives us access to outdoor activities in forests and land. At the same time, if you say that you should strengthen ownership, you have to wonder whether it will go beyond the right of public access. This balance must also always be there when making this kind of balance. When it comes to access to the beaches for the public, there is also a balance to be struck. That is why we have the beach protection rules. In terms of valuable nature and wildlife, there is also an interest that needs to be protected. Sometimes the land needs to be used for necessary social investments, for example, that we can build roads and railways. Landowners and forest owners have strong rights, but there are also other interests in society that must also be taken into account in this discussion, and there must be a balance in this regard. As I said, I was involved in the Fundamental Law investigation led by Moderate Per Unckel, who was a very good person to deal with. There was one person who could be trusted to stand by their deals and agreements. We took each other in hand and said that we would settle the whole package – the new governance that came into force in 2011. Now all parties agree on this. A deal just about the writing in Chapter 2. Section 15 the form of government was there. I intend to stand by the agreement that we then made on the Constitution, and I hope that the Moderates will also stand by it. It is important to keep this principle in mind when laying down constitutions.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-38	Madam President, I would like I share the Government's view that this investigation was a good one. I also share his view that Per Unckel was an honorary man, and I had a lot to do with him when I was a councillor. He really stood for what was settled with him. The problem today, despite the basic law investigation, is that the government does not rule its authorities with regulatory letters. They run freely in different parts and have opinions about things that are not under their responsibilities. I know that among other things Lantmäteriet can have opinions about whether someone should be allowed to cut up a plot. In fact, the Land Survey should only carry out the cutting, not have comments on the fact that the Buildings Board has authorised the cutting-off. They slip on their missions and interfere in politics. It's a big worry. There will be government activism of this. Does the Government seriously believe that ownership will be strengthened when the Ministry of the Environment deals with and prepares the issue? Madam President, I would like Me and the Moderates have never questioned the right of public access. We've agreed on that. But that does not mean that you should not be allowed to build on the beaches if you own land. This does not mean building on unbuilt islands. This means that you should be allowed to build adjacent to your property where you live or have a house. It is most reasonable to build a pier close to the beach if you have a house on an island to get there. The alternative is to go helicopter out to the island. It's not free. Then you have to ask the region for funding. Then maybe you can do it. Strand protection is also a threat to property rights. It's 100 meters flat, and sometimes it's 300 meters. I do not know of any beach in Sweden that is 300 meters, not even on Falsterbonäset. My question is whether the Government thinks it is reasonable to have 300 meters of beach shelter. Then you really protect forest and land that is far from the beaches. It's not the beaches you're protecting. In Germany there is a differentiated beach protection. There you look at what it looks like in real life if you need to have 5 meters or 40 meters. In Sweden there are general bans and beach shelters of 100 or 300 meters. Moreover, it is the state that is monitoring this, which I think is completely wrong. This responsibility should lie entirely with the municipalities in the outline plans. The municipality has the best local knowledge of its territory – much better than it has at the county administrative board. I also believe that this undermines local democracy. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question once again: when will the Council of State and the Government set up the parliamentary committee? The House decided on it in June 2019. When will it be added?
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-48	Madam President, I would like It is known that the Government is on a slippery slope when he indirectly accuses us of Moderates of questioning the right of public access. It is, of course, pure nonsense and an attempt to mix up the cards. Kjell Jansson has mentioned a number of examples both in this speech and in the previous one, and just as he says, there are systematic violations of property rights in Sweden – I myself mentioned examples from Bollnäs. Unfortunately, I do not have that speaking time, but I could mention a number of other examples from my constituency of Gävleborg that there are violations of property rights in different ways. I regard this as mistrust. It is mistrust of private forest owners, mistrust of entrepreneurs and mistrust of municipalities that want to develop. Take Hudiksvall, for example; they have beautiful areas where they want to build near the beaches. They see that it is possible to create areas there, but it has not been so easy. Now the Government itself has been involved in making a January agreement to facilitate construction on the beaches. In any case, the Center Party says that there has been an agreement with the Social Democrats to facilitate construction on the beaches – a simplified beach protection. That's what the Center Party says, and the party writes debate articles about it around Sweden. Here, however, the Government says that we must protect the beaches from building. It shows how paradoxical this formation of government is. You don't even seem to know what you've agreed on. We Moderates welcome the strengthening of property rights, and we welcome the fact that municipalities want to develop. We welcome the fact that people want to live and build closer to water. Many people want to live like that, and I hope that the intention of this investigation is to facilitate living on beaches.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-52	Madam President, I would like It is fascinating to hear a debate based on conscious misunderstandings. What I did in my last speech was to problematize property rights. I said that it cannot be said that ownership is the only interest that exists in society without other social interests as well. I exemplified this with, for example, large investments that we need to make: we need to be able to build roads, and we need to be able to build railways. We must have other types of communications, such as telecommunications, etc. I also exemplified with the right of public access as another important interest that the public has – the importance of animals and nature and that there is an outdoor life so that people can get out into nature. I also exemplified the beaches and the beach protection regulations that exist. With regard to the investigations that have been set up, I mention the Forest investigation, which will strengthen the landowner's rights, and the species protection investigation, which is about to be set up and which will also do so. There is also a special beach protection investigation that we have agreed with the other January parties to conduct. If you want to discuss details of it and how it should land, I think you should take that discussion with the minister involved, but it opens up for greater flexibility than has been the case in the past. However, it is a matter for the responsible Government. What lies within my remit is what the regulation should look like in the Constitution. What I underlined in my previous speech is that the Social Democrats are a party that keeps its promises, and I would say that it is particularly important to keep its promises on constitutional issues. I assume that the agreement on the Constitution as a whole, as we once did with Per Unckel, the Moderates and all the other parties then sitting in this House – a deal that came into force as late as 2011 – will continue to apply. For we cannot have a situation in which the Moderates make a settlement after settlement. You left the December Agreement, you left the Energy Agreement and you left the Migration Agreement. You did not even want to complete the gang talks, and if you are now to leave the constitutional investigation and the constitutional agreements, we are soon in a position where a handshake from the Moderates no longer counts. Then it'll be like writing in water when you get along with the Moderates, and I hope you won't put your party in such a situation. This is also built on with a rhetoric that is that ownership is under threat and that it is a problem with the authorities. In that case, I think that this discussion should be taken, not in constitutional matters, but in terms of instructions to the authorities and what they look like. Then you have to take that discussion. I note, however, that the legislative changes we are now investigating can be made within the framework of the Constitution. I do not share the view that ownership is under threat. If we speak of ownership, there are, in my view, quite other issues that should actually be discussed. The big problem with ownership right now is not that ownership is under threat, but that ownership is so desperately badly distributed that some people own huge assets while others own very little. We should have that discussion instead, that is to say: how do we ensure that equality is increased overall? When in the Moderates you abolished the wealth tax for, what is it now, a little over ten years ago you also abolished the registration of all the wealth. We do not even know what the distribution of wealth looks like in Sweden. We should talk about this instead, I think, because the distribution of ownership is a much bigger problem than this particular issue.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-60	Madam President and the Government. The Moderates have no plans to abandon the Constitutional Treaty. That is not what we are addressing in this interpellation debate, but the ownership and application of it. It is serious when authorities go in and do infringements. The government has lost control of its authorities, and the letters of regulation are too weak. It needs to be strengthened, and that's why I've set the interpellation. I have done so because many landowners in my municipality have reacted to this and contacted me as a Member of Parliament. They contacted me already when I was a councillor, but now I have the opportunity to ask the questions. More owners, says the Government. Absolutely! It's just to buy land if you want it. The state does not allocate land to people. It was done in the United States earlier; when our Swedes emigrated to the United States, they got a plot of land – and no contribution – to be able to establish themselves. Perhaps it is something that the Government may consider with regard to the land of the state, if he wants more owners. Otherwise, people may actually buy their land themselves, if they now want more land than they have. My question remains. I haven't got an answer yet. When will the parliamentary committee be appointed? Or is it the way in which the government obstinates against Parliament's decision in this House to set up a parliamentary committee? In that case, it is serious, I believe, because if the Riksdag makes a decision, it should also be implemented by the Government. The Minister for Justice is guilty of the answer in this Chamber. The next question is what are the guidelines for the government's own appointed inquiry into property rights? There must be guidelines if property rights are to be strengthened. For what purpose? I want answers to that.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-65	Madam President, I would like Kjell Jansson clearly stated that the Moderates have no plans to abandon the Constitutional Agreement. I thought that was a good thing – in that case, we do not need to review the constitution in that part, do we? In that case, you stand by the agreement, Kjell Jansson. In that case, what we are discussing is whether to change the ordinary law and strengthen ownership of land and forests, and that is precisely what the investigation that has been launched aims at. It is explicitly stated in the directives that the Forest Investigation has that it is aimed at precisely this. Then there is the species protection investigation, which also comes. If Kjell Jansson wants to strengthen property rights for land and forests, I would therefore urge him to monitor that investigation and participate in the process that then comes when it comes to producing legislation for this. I can assure Kjell Jansson that we from the government and government parties, as well as the parties we cooperate with, intend to pursue what we have said in the January agreement. This means that we should strengthen the rights of landowners in this context, and it is, among other things, a matter of remuneration when there are restrictions on advice or other restrictions on ownership. We don't have any other line. It is good to hear that the Moderates stand by the constitution here. Then the handshake with the Moderates still applies, and then we do not need to review the wording of Chapter 2. Section 15, the form of government. Instead, we focus on seeing what can be done under ordinary law and how we can move forward there.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-69	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad has asked me whether the government will retain the CVE function at the Crime Prevention Council, Brå, and whether their activities correspond to the government planned for 2017, or whether the government is prepared to allow the police to have an operational responsibility for Sweden's local work against violent extremism and radicalisation. He has also asked what conclusions the government draws from the Security Service's opinion and whether the government has plans to clarify the county boards' regional mission to map violent extremism. Center against violent extremism, CVE, was established at Brå in January 2018. So far, the Centre's activities largely correspond to what was planned by the government. CVE offers support and guidance to the municipalities that need it, both through visits and via a support telephone for professionals. During 2019, CVE has provided specific support to the municipalities affected by returnees from Syria and Iraq and has also intensified cooperation between the relevant national authorities and municipalities in the planning of operations for this target group. The Police Authority's operational work against violent extremism at the local level has also developed during the year, including through a developed cooperation with the Security Service. For example, cooperation means an improved exchange of intelligence information. The hub of local prevention consists of cross-sectoral collaboration between government and municipal authorities. From January 2020 onwards, Brå will take over the task of allocating state grants to organisations, municipalities and regions for preventive work against violent extremism from the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society. In 2020, the government will also review whether CVE's role needs to be further developed. This also applies to the question of whether county boards should be given a mandate. The County Administrative Board of Dalarna has made a proposal that the county administrative boards should be given a regional coordination mission against violent extremism. According to the Swedish Security Service, there are organisations linked to extremist environments that receive public funds through both state and municipal grants. The Government shares the Swedish Security Service's assessment that public activities should not finance anti-democratic actors. The proposals in the investigation Democracy conditions for contributions to civil society are currently being prepared within the Government Office. The proposals in the study aim to ensure that public funds should only go to activities that are consistent with society's fundamental values. The opinion of the Security Service will be taken into account in the Government's overall assessment of the investigation's proposals.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-76	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Justice, for your answer to the Liberals' interpellation! Unfortunately, the question of radicalisation and violent extremism is not new, and it is not a day that we can read about it. Most recently it was in Expressen, but there are also other media that describe how people, organisations, associations, assemblies and so on every day challenge our democratic values and values and every day try to radicalise, encourage, recruit and fund non-democratic activities with the aim of either planning or financing a terrorist crime or financing trips to conflict areas. The 2019 report from the Swedish Security Service has not yet been presented, but there is nothing to suggest that radicalisation and the problem of domestic extremism are decreasing in Sweden – rather, this continues to pose an enormous threat to Swedish values and democracy. That is why we from the Liberals come back with the issue of the Centre against violent extremism. I myself was involved in the negotiations both in 2015 and 2017. We thought from the start that this function, which came after the national coordinator, should not lie with Brå but with the Police Authority. Madam President, I would like I do not really get the answer to the question whether the government thinks it should retain the function of the Crime Prevention Council or whether it is possible to move this important activity to work more operationally and work more throughout the country. Today, there is only one authority that has muscle and national, regional and local presence and the ability and capacity to actually try to maintain a model – a national model, or a national system – to reinforce the local work against violent domestic extremism. I have also asked questions about the opinion of the Security Service, which was left here last autumn. I was surprised that in its opinion to the government on this subject, with democracy conditions and the management of state subsidies, it advocated a kind of building of knowledge. This would be a new function – another function. When I have followed the work of CVE, the Center against Violent Extremism, I have assumed that this mission lay with them. I would like to be clarified by the Government how he sees the Security Service asking for another function. Why doesn't the government want to transfer the CVE function to the Police Department? How does the Minister see that the Security Service is asking for another role that we from the Liberals have believed was already within the framework of the mandates of the Crime Prevention Council and CVE? Generally speaking, Madam President, we have been pursuing a number of important issues for many years, including the fact that the CVE function should be with the Police Authority. We have been pushing for criteria and conditions to be tightened even for state funds – not only for the faiths, as it was before, but also for the mission that is to come. We have already pointed out – and we would like to point out again – that it is also important to access the regional public funds and the municipal funds paid out in the form of association grants. We believe that this proposal is not fully covered. We have also called for an amendment to the Social Services Act to better share information. I hope that these investigations, and proposals to Parliament, will soon be delivered.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-87	Madam President, I would like It is my firm belief that the Centre against violent extremism is developing well. This work was previously carried out in committee form on a temporary basis. What we did was create a solid and permanent organization. We increased resources and made sure there were more employees. I am proud of the activities that are now being carried out, and I follow them very closely. Just make all the contacts you have with municipalities; I think they made 79 municipal visits in 2019. We know that there is a great demand from the local government sector for support, advice and education. The last time I heard about this from SKR, Sweden's Municipalities and Regions, they said that CVE has now started so well with its business that the municipalities do not call SPR as much but instead call CVE when they want advice and support. The municipalities will then receive just the support they need. It is also my assessment that CVE's activities are highly appreciated by the municipalities that CVE helps in various ways. Last year they had a special focus on return and gathered 39 municipalities for a training day in April to discuss how we work with returnees in addition to the police – to investigate if the person has committed any crimes – and how we can work more broadly with that page. It is not only about the returnees, but also about their families, their children and everything else that is involved in the municipalities. There is a lot of training, not just in Stockholm. Last year, for example, training sessions were arranged in Västerås, Linköping and Växjö. There is also a special support telephone for professionals, where, for example, the social services' administrators can call for advice and support when they are going to do this kind of balancing. Over 160 calls were made last year; there are more than twice as many as 2018. Now it is also at the forefront of re-establishing the worry phone that existed for relatives, which was run by Save the Children. It will start again in March. It will be Save the Children who will do this, but CVE is involved in financing it. Roger Haddad calls for more operational work. I say that CVE is doing it and that it is doing it according to the guidelines given by the government. Head of the Center against violent extremism is Jonas Trolle. He has been a police officer for over 20 years and worked operationally, especially against organized crime. When we recruited Jonas Trolle, we did it precisely against this background. I wanted a person with experience in operational police work. I think that Jonas Trolle responds very well to the demands we made on the management of CVE. From what I understand, Roger Haddad has never visited CVE but forms his opinion from things he has read in the paper and draws conclusions from it. I would urge Roger Haddad to visit CVE one afternoon. Sit down with the people who work there, Roger Haddad, and go through what they actually do. Then I think you'll get the idea that they're doing a very good job. I think you might also get a different and deeper picture of how CVE works operationally.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-96	Madam President, I would like I haven't visited CVE, because it took six months, a large part of the spring of 2018, before they got a cabinet in place at all, started hiring employees and so on. But I take note of documents and have worked on these issues for at least eight years, both in the previous Transparency Council of Säpo and in the National Police Board, at the time when they were responsible for these issues. And we have been negotiating with the government for more than two years on measures against terrorism and violent extremism. We'll also have to take note of the Security Service's reports. The reason for this intervention was that, in November, the Swedish Security Service gave an opinion to the government that it wanted a further function to be introduced, namely a centre of knowledge. The Knowledge Centre would provide support and knowledge to authorities but also to municipalities so that they could better access the state, regional and municipal contributions that we still look to be paid out to non-democratic associations and organisations, but also to people. This shows, I mean firmly, that in that sense CVE has not fulfilled the mission that I thought CVE would have at the time of its creation in 2018. But it was announced already in summer 2017 at DN Debate by Morgan Johansson. It sounds to the Minister like everything is working in the operational work of the police as well. Then I would like to ask the Minister of Justice if he has read the Political Authority's supervisory report that came in November. It totally rejects the political authority's local work against violent extremism at all levels in all visited regions. It actually suggests that we have to do something about the Police Authority. We want and maintain that this function should be transferred to the Police Department. But then the function, coordination, implementation and implementation must be intelligence-based, legally secure and effective. All functions, operational and local, must work. But they don't today. I firmly assert, strengthened by the report of supervision that came before Christmas, that we have no satisfactory work against local violence-promoting extremism. The supervisory report even says that in the authorities and regions where there are guidelines, they are not even known by the employees. This means, therefore, that the guidelines for the work against violent extremism are not applied in any of the visited regions. This is a rejection of the Social Democratic Government and ultimately the Minister of Justice, who is the head of the Ministry of Justice responsible for both crime prevention and intervention and police activities, although the government distributes the activities to two ministers. The division of responsibilities must be reviewed. Our ability must be improved, and CVE must be given a much clearer mission. I heard in the Government's interpellation response that in 2020 the Government will also review whether CVE's role needs to be further developed. Then I would like to know directly how it has been decided to review the role of CVE. This with the county boards we raised already three years ago in an interpellation to Ardalan Shekarabi.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-105	Madam President, I would like I don't recognize at all the image Roger Haddad wants to represent here. Perhaps this is because I have almost daily contact with authorities at different levels, with the judicial authorities of course, but also in a broader perspective. My view is that the Centre against violent extremism is developing well. Roger Haddad says he hasn't visited CVE. He's probably not even met someone who works at CVE, but he still has a very firm idea of how they work and why they should work in a different way. My call to Roger Haddad is very simple: go to CVE, sit down with them one afternoon or so and go through how they work! He will then meet an extremely competent staff working actively and operationally throughout the country, from the bottom up, I would say, with these very issues. Roger Haddad cannot say that he has not had time to visit them because they recruited staff in spring 2018. Now we are in 2020, and CVE has been up and running for over a year, at least throughout 2019, and got started in a very good way. The fact that the Security Service wants to extend its responsibilities should not be interpreted as some kind of distrust of CVE. In any case, I do not, but I take it that the Security Service simply wants additional instruments in order to be able to make the assessments that need to be made. Of course I accept that. I can say that both the Swedish Security Service and the police have received considerably more resources to work with this particular type of issue during our reign. Will we further develop, evaluate and review this activity? Of course, we will do that on an ongoing basis. And I do not rule out that we are also making organisational changes in the future. But the reason we didn't put this on the police in 2017 was actually that the police didn't want it, because the police were still in 2017 fully occupied with their major reorganisation, where they merged all the authorities into one and the same authority. This is something which, incidentally, has been a great success. Then the police in their referrals told us that in that situation it did not work for them to take care of another task and organization. That's why we put it on the Crime Prevention Council. We do ongoing evaluations. It may be that we need to reorganise, and then we do. But then you should be pragmatic and see where this business works best. My view is that during the years that it has been going on, CVE has strengthened the work against violent extremism very significantly in Sweden.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-111	Madam President, I would like The truth is that Brå didn't want this mission either, but Morgan Johansson gave them the assignment anyway. So there is no argument that it was not put on the police. Now it has been a number of years. It's good that the minister is in contact with the authorities, but I'm working on these issues as a school politician. I meet with social services staff and have regularly raised this issue in the County Administrative Board's Transparency Council in Västmanland. I have also met municipalities working on these issues on the ground. That's the difference. Morgan Johansson is in contact with his Directors-General, and I am addressing these issues on the ground. And not least the regional and local police officers I meet locally, who work on these issues, confirm that there is still an unclear division of responsibilities between the Security Service and the police. This is also confirmed in the inspection report that came before Christmas but which the Minister of Justice obviously has not read. It says that police officers still feel that when it comes to what is the subject of this debate, Madam President, namely the work against local violent extremism, there are ambiguities. It is unacceptable and regrettable that the Minister and the Government are not showing any kind of self-criticism in this important policy area, which primarily concerns Sweden's crime prevention work, but also support for the police, social services and schools. I find that quite remarkable.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-114	Madam President, I would like Once again, I would just like to remind you that when we took office five years ago, there was a temporary committee activity in the form of a national coordinator. What we did was create a firm and permanent activity to strengthen the work against violent extremism. We used new resources and made sure that more people were hired. We now have a system in which contact with, not least, the local government sector is much better than it was before. Having said that, of course not all of the issues have been resolved. But I say that it is much better now than it was when we took office five years ago. Perhaps this should be borne in mind. No, it's true that Brå didn't want the business to be put there. But I thought the police had stronger arguments than Brå had. The police's argument was that it was in the middle of a reorganisation of the operation and then receiving another organization was not feasible at that time. We put it on Brå, and it works perfectly well and develops in a good way. We are not just talking to our Directors-General. Both I and the Minister for the Interior make municipal visits practically every week, sometimes a couple of times a week, and meet with the police, prosecutors, crime prevention, municipalities and penitentiary. We also get information about how things work on the ground; don't think otherwise. Roger Haddad's shortcoming in this debate is that he himself has not met with Mr CVE and yet he brings this up for discussion in an interpellation debate. I think he should sit down with them, because then I think he would get a different and better opinion.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-120	Madam President, I would like Mr Arin has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that removal decisions are actually implemented. Return issues are a matter of priority for the government. In order to maintain a humane, legally secure and long-term sustainable migration policy, those who, after a legal review for their asylum reasons, have had a decision to refuse must return as quickly as possible. The return must primarily be voluntary, otherwise by coercion. In recent years, the government has taken a number of measures in the area of return, and since 2014, 80 000 former asylum seekers have left Sweden. It is an average of over 1,000 per month. As it is urgent that a return should take place as much as possible on a voluntary basis, an opportunity was introduced in 2017 for the Police Authority to return a case to the Migration Agency if it turns out that the person wants to contribute to a voluntary return. The government has also ensured that Sweden can now carry out expulsions and expulsions under coercion to countries where it has been difficult in the past, such as Afghanistan and Morocco. Returning liaison officers have been deployed in embassies in several key countries, such as Afghanistan and Lebanon. Precautionary apacity has increased by over 100 percent since 2016 and now amounts to 528 seats. Since 2018, the police have also been given increased opportunities to carry out workplace inspections, which has contributed to an increase in the number of such inspections and to the police finding people who stay away. At present, a revision of the Return Directive is also under way which aims, inter alia, to improve the efficiency of Member States' return procedures. In addition, in February, the new EU Regulation on a Common Visa Code enters into force allowing the EU to decide on a stricter visa policy vis-à-vis third countries that do not cooperate on readmission. In addition, the Government intends to submit a proposal to the Riksdag during the spring, which includes increased possibilities for fingerprinting in certain situations. The government will continue to work intensively on return issues, including through a dialogue with the host countries and continued support for return work at EU level.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-128	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister for Migration Morgan Johansson for his answer, although I am not satisfied with it. We have debated return in this House on several occasions. There is no quick fix; I humbly admit that. We can't just snap our fingers, so the problem is solved. But it is the duty of Parliament to examine the work of the government. When I meet our good border policemen in the field, they testify to a great problem because we have legislation that sends the wrong signals. The reason for this is this house and this hall. One example is the High School Act. Its purpose was good. A group of people from countries with difficult conditions would have a chance to stay, even though they had actually had their protection needs tested and been rejected. We Moderates were opposed to this because we considered the law to be a hasty work. The law council gave stinging criticism, and there was also criticism from the Migration Board because the law sent double signals. The Upper Secondary Education Act will be discussed more in the next interpellation debate. This interpellation is about how Sweden's return works. Yes, we have 528 detention centres, but every time I see the Migration Agency or the border police, they say the seats aren't enough. It takes time to find new detention sites. That's why you have to work even harder, but the government's pace is very low. Another problem is when obstacles arise in the return of persons who have had their asylum application examined in all instances and been rejected. There are countries that do not accept their citizens if they do not voluntarily request travel documents from the embassy themselves. One such country is Iraq. Sweden's connection to Iraq consists of more than that Iraqis have fled to Sweden and either been granted asylum or denied asylum. Sweden has exports to Iraq, an embassy on the ground and assistance that goes to both civil society and democracy and institution building in Iraq. In the DN, the border police testify to the fact that it has reached the point where enforcement barriers are created because some countries do not accept their citizens. Could the Minister of Migration envisage making aid conditional on countries that do not take full responsibility for their citizens? These are persons who have had their asylum application examined in a legally secure manner in Swedish courts and where the conclusion is that there are no grounds for protection and that they must return. It's an element 22. The person has a deportation order but cannot be expelled because of bureaucracy and government laxity because an agreement has not been concluded with Iraq, for example, as has been done with Afghanistan, for the country to receive the citizens who have been rejected.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-138	Madam President, I would like Let's remember where we're from. When we took over 2014, migration development was in practice in free-fall. Sweden had received 80 000 asylum seekers in 2014. In 2015 there were 163,000. What we inherited from the moderate-led government was a migration policy that was the EU's most generous asylum policy and the world's most generous labour immigration policy. When the Moderates ruled, 12% of all asylum seekers in the EU came to Sweden. We had to tighten up on border controls, ID checks and the temporary law. But even at its worst in the autumn of 2015, when we received 10 000 a week, the Moderates were not able to vote in favour of the ID checks in the Chamber, but we had to pass that without the support of the Moderates. Since 2015, the number of asylum seekers has decreased by 87 per cent. The number of unaccompanied children and young people has fallen by 97%. From the fact that we received 12% of all those who came to the EU, Sweden is now receiving about 3%. It is therefore not only the number of asylum seekers who have fallen sharply in Sweden, but also Sweden's share of asylum seekers who come to the EU. We simply did what the Moderates could not do during their reign. This also applies on the rejection side. I say that this works considerably better now than it did a few years ago. Over 80 000 former asylum seekers have left Sweden in the last six years. Either they have been rejected here and have therefore voluntarily or forcefully gone back to their home countries, or they are Dublin cases, that is, they have been registered in another EU country and have been allowed to go back there. 80 000 in six years means about 1 000 former asylum seekers who leave Sweden every month. When I talk about this in the rest of the European Union, people are surprised. This is in fact considerably better than many other EU countries are capable of doing. When we have gone through this, we have looked at the proportion of those who are rejected and those who are going home. The last average figure for Sweden over the last ten years is 63% of those who receive expulsion decisions, are posted as cases and, as we know, then also return, either by force or voluntarily. The EU average is considerably lower than that. Sweden is therefore one of the countries that is good in the sense that we are able to carry out returns. It is now happening to Afghanistan. It was not possible when the Moderates ruled Sweden. We signed the agreement with Afghanistan. We have managed to sign a return agreement to Morocco. We can do it with other countries too, something we could not do before. Of course, this does not happen without problems. There are problems in some countries. But that's what we're gonna do. This afternoon, I will meet Commissioner Ylva Johansson, who is visiting Sweden today. I will discuss with her, among other things, how we ensure that, with the help of the European Union, we can get more countries of origin back to receiving their own citizens. If the EU's asylum policy is to work overall, we must also have proper agreements and arrangements with the countries of origin. I can assure Mr Arin that we continue to take this issue very seriously.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-148	Madam President, I would like I must pay tribute to the Minister for Migration. You know in advance what answer you will get. He always comes back to the change of power in 2014 and the legacy of the alliance government. Let's start there! At that time Prime Minister Stefan Löfven stood in the Parliament's pulpit and explained that the migration agreement at that time would be established. This happened in autumn 2014. That's when my party lost government power and we went into opposition. The migration crisis came in the summer of 2015. From what I understand, the pressure started at that point most. Thousands crossed the border with Sweden from Denmark. That's when the big refugee wave began. I do not deny that we already had a high reception. But now we are talking about the refugee crisis in 2015, which led to the wave of refugees in the autumn and the border controls in November and December. The Minister of Migration says that they have taken responsibility and pushed back the search print. There was also pressure from Parliament's chamber. Looking at the government's policy thereafter, we have received the High School Act, which was condemned in advance. What we are now seeing are young Afghan men who have temporary residence permits. They'll have to arrange their own accommodation. The costs are passed on to the municipalities. The state no longer has any responsibility. We know in advance that many of them will not succeed, because they did not have a good educational background before they came to Sweden. It sends a double signal when you say: Stay long enough in Sweden and you may get amnesty. Two parties in this House, who also sit on the Committee, advocate an amnesty. The reason for the reduced search pressure to Europe and Sweden is the agreement with Turkey. According to the Swedish Parliament's investigation service, 140 000 people would have left Sweden during the period 2014– 2018. The government is proud that 70 000 have left Sweden. My question is: where are the other 70 000 individuals? They may have left Sweden, but they may as well be in Sweden. If they're here, they'll do it illegally. They will then be exposed to undeclared work, exploitation and social vulnerability. If they have children, these live in even greater uncertainty than their parents do. As for the Moroccan street children, there was pressure from Parliament's chambers. The media noticed the problem, and the government panicked. However, it is a good thing that an agreement was reached; I do not disagree with that. That's good, but it should have come earlier. Madam President, I would like Let us take another example of a change of track. One in ten who have been rejected is today granted a work permit by a change of track. The Alliance government did this, but now we have taken the initiative to remove the track change. This should be in the interest of the Social Democrats. Instead, they went out yesterday and said that they should look at whether they can simplify the track change for some. If one in ten people who have been refused their asylum application receive a residence permit via a change of track, I wonder what signals are being sent to the remaining nine people who have been refused their asylum application to leave the country voluntarily. There is nothing better than that an individual chooses to leave Sweden voluntarily. It's effective, it's more humane and it saves money.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-161	Madam President, I would like After all, it is the results that count. No matter how Arin Karapet turns and twists everything, it still remains a fact. In 2014, we took over a policy that was the EU's most generous asylum policy. That's what you would've pushed through. In addition, Sweden had the world's most generous rules for labour migration. It was also you Moderates who had pushed them through. Tobias Billström's major contribution to Swedish politics was to create the world's most generous rules for labour immigration. You no longer want to stand for this, but you have made a turn of 180 degrees. We have been critical of this at all times, right from the beginning. Now it finally looks like we have a majority here in Parliament to change these rules and tighten them up so that we can, among other things, combat cheating and falsification in this area. However, that is what the policy looked like until 2014. The task of the Social Democrats and the Green Party was to tighten the rules when we saw that they did not work. So did we. The Moderates did not give us much help there. On the contrary, you did not even have the strength to vote on the decision on the ID checks. If the Moderates think it's important to return, I wonder why you didn't sign agreements with Afghanistan. Why would we do that? Why did you not do anything about the situation if you now think it is so important to have a good cooperation with Morocco, given the guys who were hanging outside the Central Station, in Nordstan in Gothenburg and elsewhere and actually committed quite serious crimes? This was the situation in 2013 and 2014. Why didn't you do something about it? One of the first things I did in autumn 2014 was just contact Morocco at different levels to try to get such cooperation. And now we have well-functioning cooperation with Morocco, and the situation here is considerably better than it was in the past. Why didn't you do something if this was so urgent for you? Arin Karapet also talks about the High School Act. We will talk about it in the next interpellation debate. But I can see that this is not a law that is unobtrusive. It means that if you had been here for a long time and had to wait for a long time, you had an opportunity to finish school. You're also supposed to stick to your skin and not commit any crimes. You should run the school and go out in such a way that you can then establish yourself in the labour market, get a job. I meet a lot of these young people, and I think it will go very well for the vast majority of those who have been given this opportunity. It actually feels a little offensive sometimes when I hear how in the public debate these young people are constantly labeled and spoken ill of. When you meet them you notice that most people are very motivated, want to finish school, want to learn the Swedish language and want to become a part of Sweden. I think that we should have confidence in these young people too, just as we have confidence in all the other young people in Sweden, and not look down on them in the way that is sometimes done in the public debate. Madam President, I would like As far as the return is concerned, we will of course continue to ensure that this can happen to more countries. When we signed the agreement with Afghanistan, we were able to do so, among other things, because we were supported by the European Union. This is one of the issues I will raise with Ylva Johansson this afternoon. How can the EU help Sweden so that we can get more returns to countries where it is not going today?
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-170	Madam President, I would like I'm not getting an answer to my question. Morgan Johansson goes back to 2014. I'll be honest with you. In 2014, I was five years younger, 26 years old. I did not sit in this Chamber then but was elected in 2018. I'm looking forward. If we want to point the finger, we can go back to the time when universal suffrage was introduced. What did the Social Democrats do in the 1930s? What did the bourgeois government do in the 1970s? What did the Bildt government do? We can turn and turn all over it back and forth, but in that way we will get nowhere. The problems don't go away for that. According to the parliamentary investigation service, we have approximately 70 000 people who should have been deported. Either they have left Sweden voluntarily without us knowing it or they are in Sweden illegally. Either way, it is a problem that needs to be resolved. We have to dive deep into it. We will enter the Upper Secondary Education Act in the next interpellation debate. The question I want to come up with is, when Minister Morgan Johansson stands here and says that the government has done everything to reduce the search pressure: What signals are being sent to those who are on their way to Sweden or are here waiting for their asylum application? At one end it is said that migration has been tightened. Yes, part of it has been done. At the other end, a high school team has been established that was condemned in advance. We barely manage to get our young people with foreign background to graduate Swedish school with complete grades. This does not apply to a majority, but a large group of young people born in Sweden. You send a signal to these young people and say – with the high demands: Just go to school and you will be fine! The result says otherwise. The immigration of relatives has also been simplified. The Finnish Immigration Service estimates that 118 000 people will apply for a residence permit as a family member until 2022. This is not tightening up migration.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-173	Madam President, I would like What did the Social Democrats do when universal suffrage was pushed through? Well, we were the ones who pushed it through. But perhaps it is a discussion that we should take in another context. I just point out that what we have done over these five years is that we have been dealing with the refugee crisis that we took over when we came into government in 2014– 2015. The number of asylum seekers has decreased by 87 per cent since 2015 in Sweden. The number of unaccompanied young people has fallen by 97%. Arin Karapet runs the thesis that because of the High School Act, which gave a chance to people who have had to wait for a long time, we send out signals that will cause a lot more unaccompanied people to come to Sweden. It's just the opposite. Arin Karapet does not have the slightest evidence of that claim. Since we passed the High School Act, the number of unaccompanied youths has not increased. It's the other way around. It has continued to be at a very low level. As has been said, since 2015, there has been a 97% reduction. It is the same with regard to alternative protection and family reunification. There we made a change so that children can see their father again after several years and that a wife can see her husband again after several years; he can simply come here from the refugee camp. Then the Moderates also said that it would lead to rushing and that everyone would come here. So far we see no such signals. The scenario that you painted when we adopted the new legislation has not become a reality. We will continue to ensure that migration policy is kept in order and that we receive as many as we can, but not more. We will also make return even more effective.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-177	Madam President, I would like Mr Arin has asked me where I and the government stand on the question of amnesty for the group mentioned in the interpellation and whether I would like to carry out a review of the Upper Secondary Education Act in order to make it easier for this group to obtain a permanent residence permit. The government's position is reflected in the current regulatory framework and in its preparatory work. Supplementary amending budget for 2018 – New residence permit option shows, among other things, that the purpose of the proposal is to provide a residence permit for studies at upper secondary level for the group of young people whose residence permit prospects have deteriorated significantly due to very long processing times at the Migration Agency. This can then lead to the possibility of looking for work, becoming established on the labour market and being granted permanent residence permits on subsistence. The provisions on residence permits for studies at upper secondary level are included in the so-called upper secondary legislation in the Act on temporary restrictions on the possibility of obtaining a residence permit in Sweden, which is commonly referred to as the Temporary Act. In June 2019, the Riksdag decided that the Temporary Act will continue to apply until 19 July 2021. The aim of the regulatory framework remains, and it is the current provisions that apply.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-180	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. The Upper Secondary Education Act is a recurring question. The Moderates opposed it and shared the opinion of the Law Council and the Migration Courts. It is unclear and misleading and gives false hopes. The criticism was the same from Sweden's Municipalities and Regions, when Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils. I guess there was a good intention. These people had to wait. But many had to wait. We have looked at how high school teams are designed and what their background is. I do not want to identify these young people as a problem or as a different group. They are people just like everyone else, and they should be respected just like everyone else. The tone's not okay. But what happened? Yes, the background is that they had their need for protection tested in all instances. They were entitled to legal representation and legal certainty, just like any other asylum seeker. But there was probably political pressure inside the Government Office from a smaller party than the Social Democrats, namely the Green Party. The Social Democrats gave in. They made up something that was somewhere in between. This will be good, you said, and so you instilled false hopes. We can see the results. There will be reports. Young people have temporary residence permits pending either a refusal or – if they meet the legal requirements – a permanent residence permit. The Finnish Immigration Service does not know how to interpret the certificates and what is a relevant upper secondary school education and not. The municipalities hardly know that themselves. Even less do the young people know. In fact, this sends out signals to asylum seekers from other groups: wait long enough, and maybe there will be another amendment to the law or another amnesty! This is gonna be misleading. In fact, that criticism comes from Delmi, the Delegation for Migration Studies, which is a committee under the Ministry of Justice. In Sweden we have for too long had a policy where you do not talk to each other. It's sending a double signal. What will happen, Madam President and Morgan Johansson, is that other forces are taking advantage of this. Madam President, I would like I believe that the Minister for Migration and I share the same view: a yes should be a yes, and a no should be a no. People who have reasons for protection and have been granted a residence permit in Sweden should not be questioned. They are welcome to Sweden. They are part of our community and part of our community. The problem is that there is a distrust of them when there is a group of people who do not comply with the rules we have. It gets worse when we ourselves, from the political side, send a double signal. I can say to the Prime Minister and Madam President: it is not easy to have a foreign background in Sweden today, even if it is successful, which is due to a lack of confidence in the system. There is even less faith if, for example, we have legislation such as the High School Act. Young people will be allowed to arrange their own accommodation. They will be transferred to the municipalities, which themselves have a strained economy and have to put together school, care and care. It's cutbacks after cutbacks. We can't have people living in the street. It's cold and dark in this country. They have to arrange accommodations. This is about the need to conserve resources. We're putting groups against groups. This is made by ourselves. My question to the Minister for Migration is: is it going to be an amnesty for them or not? The Left Party and the Green Party want that. Do the Social Democrats want that? Are you going to fold?
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-191	Madam President, I would like As I said in the interpellation response, these are the rules that apply. That is what we have agreed, and that is what we are doing. It is only one participant in this debate who is pitting a group against a group, and that is not me. I don't usually have a debate like that. The starting point is the refugee crisis in 2015 when there were 163 000 asylum seekers, 35 000 of whom were unaccompanied young people. Today, the situation is quite different. This is a decrease of almost 90% for asylum seekers overall and a reduction of 97% for unaccompanied minors. It's a sharp drop. The concern we got into when so many came for such a short time to Sweden was that many had to wait a very long time. This was due, among other things, to the fact that when dealing with all these asylum applications, the Syrians in that group were primarily dealt with. Those who came from the war in Syria were quite simple matters in the sense that there were no two things here than that they had a need for protection in the vast majority of cases. Therefore, nearly 100 per cent of Syrians were granted residence permits. It was important to be able to give them the information as soon as possible so that they could then go further out into society, educate themselves and establish themselves in Sweden. There we are very well on our way. The Syrians who arrived in 2015 – 2016 are doing well and were granted a residence permit. They're doing well today. This also means that the more difficult group – including the unaccompanied young people from Afghanistan – will have to wait longer. They started at school, and they began to learn Swedish. Finally, we made the decision for humanitarian reasons that when people establish themselves in this way, learn Swedish and are motivated, there is reason to give them another chance. If they came before November 25, 2015 and had waited more than 15 months, our message to them was: Okay, finish high school. Learn Swedish properly, and run the school. Keep your hands where I can see them. Don't do a lot of crime or other misery. Be careful, and then establish yourself in the labour market after you graduate from school. Then you will have the opportunity to stay in Sweden. So far, this group consists of 7,850 young people. Here it sounds on Arin Karapet as that it is overturning all of Sweden. We are talking about less than 1 per mil of Sweden's population. There are 7,850 young people who go to school and try to do as well as they can here. I think they're going to be fine. At least it looks good when we do extension cases. They shall then apply for extensions. For those cases which have so far been dealt with, this is a 96% approval rate. This means that most people do exactly what they are supposed to do. They go to school, learn Swedish and prepare to be able to establish themselves in the labour market here. I think that these young people will do well. They are motivated, and they want to remain in Sweden. I defend myself from the debate that exists where people are being pointed out and made guilty of almost all the problems that exist in Sweden these days. We can hardly talk about unemployment, housing shortages, financial problems or anything else without mentioning this very small group – less than 1 per mil of Sweden's population – and making it guilty of all these problems. I do not wish to take part in such a debate. It's dangerous, and it's not fair. My firm opinion is that there will be people of these guys and girls too if we give them the chance. I think they're going to be fine.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-204	Madam President, I would like We should be able to talk about all the problems and everything without indirectly trying to build an opinion corridor. We live in a democracy. You can't say we shouldn't talk about this because there's too much talk about it or there's some people talking bad about something. What will this debate lead to? We're talking about 7 500 individuals who had their need for protection tested. They got a no. The government decided to give them another chance. However, the demands had been quite high. We know that Syria has had a well-functioning education system before the events of 15 March 2011 and the civil war began. Syrians have an average of 7 to 8 years of educational background. Those who come from Afghanistan have about 2 years. If they have lived in Iran, they have probably had access to a better school if they were allowed to go to school. If they went to school, they had access to a better school than they did in Afghanistan. In large parts of Afghanistan, the school has been absent altogether. They say to a 19-, 20-year-old: Learn the Swedish language, and complete your upper secondary school education. That sounds great. The same demands are made on the other young people in Sweden. But what are the chances of success? I have a question for the Minister for Migration. There are reports that young Afghan men end up in crime. They can end up on the street, because the state does not assume its responsibilities but suits the municipalities. At the Minister for Migration, it sounds like it's very simple. All municipalities can vips with a simple push of a button or something get available apartments. There are no other groups in our society in need of housing. We have a very generous welfare society where we have obligations to our citizens, and they have their rights. We know that we have young people with foreign background who grow up in Sweden who finish school with incomplete grades. You say to a group, finish high school, and you'll be fine. You send false signals. There are those who end up outside. There are those who have sold their life savings and need to send money to their families at home because they get on their knees. There are those who go to France and live illegally. They have the belief: if I am only long enough in France, I may get asylum there, because France does not expel people to Afghanistan, unlike Sweden. There are programs. But what does the Dublin Regulation say? If you have submitted your asylum application in Sweden, you must return to Sweden, and the asylum application must be examined in Sweden. It is also to give them a false hope. Even if I were against amnesty, it would have been more honest with them if the government had advocated an amnesty. This is just a trixing and fixing. Now there are proposals from the left. Christina Höj Larsen stood here in the last SfU debate and said that the Left Party has budgeted for permanent residence permits. Rasmus Ling, who is the spokesperson for the Green Party on migration policy, has said himself that they can envisage a new legislative change. They don't want to call it amnesty, they call it something else. But the result is the same. My question to Minister for Migration Morgan Johansson is: What is the position of the Social Democrats? Are you in favour of an amnesty or are you not in favour of an amnesty, so that we know about it in the parliamentary committee?
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-216	Madam President, I would like I speak here for the government. What we are saying is that it is the legislation that is now in force. There is no new information in that debate. I was in my last post that it is a problem that you blow up the question about these 7 850 guys and girls to the proportions you do. It is as if the Swedish welfare state were to fall with them. In addition, the claim is made that this is a signal policy that will mean that there will be more. No, it doesn't. There haven't been any more. We have not seen any increase since we introduced the High School Act. On the contrary, we now accept far fewer unaccompanied youths than we did before. We are now on a level that we can handle in a good way. The young people who get this opportunity have been here since autumn 2015. It's almost five years. During the five years, they have plenty of time to learn. This applies, among other things, to language and to entering society. I would say that they are making enormous efforts to be able to remain and establish themselves here. Arin Karapet was almost convinced that it would have been better if we had issued amnesty instead. I don't think so. Amnesty would have been a total lack of demands. It had also included those who had committed crimes, for example. Then we would not have had the motivation in it at all, namely to make sure to learn Swedish and finish upper secondary school. The arrangement we made leaves an opportunity for them to stay if they run the school and establish themselves in the labour market. What are the chances that they can do it and succeed? It remains to be seen. But if you drop out of school and maybe get involved in crime, you won't be able to stay. It is one of the criteria in the extension cases. If they end up there, they have lost the chance we have given them, and we now have a working return to Afghanistan. There are flights practically every month to Afghanistan; I think there was one last night with expulsions to Afghanistan. There is every possibility of expulsion, for example, if you drop out of school and start to engage in crime or simply fail to meet the commitments that this entails. Do not blame this group of youths for all kinds of problems that exist in society! I think that discussion is terribly wrong. My firm belief is that the vast majority of these young people will be doing well, just as the vast majority of those who came from Bosnia at one time and those who now come from Syria, and so on, did well. I believe that people's ability to develop should be fundamentally trusted if there is strong motivation. Then these guys and girls will be a good part of Swedish society.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-224	Madam President, I would like What I said was I'm not for an amnesty. But if you listen to the government, you hear that they talk about being in favour of a humane migration policy where you should give people a second chance. And this is not really a second chance. We have set such high standards that many will not meet them. At least my party has been honest from the beginning and said that we should have the order we have. If you have received a no in all instances, you should return. You're the one who couldn't take it. It was the government that couldn't take it. It was the great power party of the Social Democrats who turned their backs on the Green Party. That's where the shoe squeezes. To point out this group as guilty of all the problems and all the misery we have in Sweden – no, I do not sign that. I don't think that's the way it is. I meet many of these kids myself. They are not the cause of all the evil and all the problems in society, as some want to paint it as. Absolutely not! I speak a language, Persian, that is, Dari. And they're talking Dari. I listen to their music. A lot of people are nice. They're very funny, and they're curious. The mechanic I'm using has only hired Afghans. I can tell them they work Saturday nights and Sundays. They don't close at 10 a.m. 5 p.m. They are hardworking people, and many of them will contribute. But what I'm saying is the problem is that false hopes have been sent. That's where the shoe squeezes. I don't think it's humane. That is where the problem lies in this type of legislation. It also sends signals to the future: Go underground, and stay a little longer and someone in politics may fold! It is better for us to have a system in which the public has faith that those who are on their way here in the future can also have a yes. This is what I fear – that we in Sweden will say no to everything forever. That's where I don't want to come.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-230	Madam President, I would like After all, this situation did not arise because these people went underground. Instead, it was because we had very long processing times when there were so many at the same time in 2015. As I said, this includes those who came before 25 November 2015 and had to wait more than 15 months. To date, a total of 7 850 have been granted this option. On the one hand, Arin Karapet says he meets these guys and girls, he speaks the same language as them, and they understand each other. They are hardworking people, he says, and they are very highly motivated. On the other hand, he says in the next breath: Although it is unfair that we give them the chance, because they will not make it. I have more hopes than that. I believe that giving people, especially teenagers, an opportunity to get this education and to establish themselves also gives them a strong motivation. I think, as I said, it will go well for most people. But for those who do not meet the criteria, we simply have to return; that is just the case. We also have the practical possibilities to do so. But it depends, of course, on whether these young people are doing well or badly, and this also depends, of course, on the general economic development in Sweden and the development of youth unemployment. Right now we have – and we have had this for many years – a strong craving for the labour market. I think we have over 100,000 vacancies. We have a much better situation for young people in the labour market at the moment than before. I believe that there has been a halving, almost, of youth unemployment during our time in government. Of course, if we are able to keep up the pressure on the labour market in such a way, the opportunities for this group will also be even better.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-237	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that state-owned companies procure transport that complies with current regulations and with Postnord's obvious shortcomings in the follow-up work. I would like to say that I naturally assume that state-owned companies comply with laws and regulations. In addition, companies with state ownership in accordance with the State's ownership policy must act exemplaryly in the area of sustainable entrepreneurship and otherwise act in such a way that they enjoy public confidence. For the state as owner, it is of particular importance that companies with state ownership work for a healthy and safe working environment and good and decent working conditions. This is the starting point for government corporate governance. The Government has had a dialogue with Postnord on the challenges in the supply chain and the importance of ensuring order and order and fair terms with all its suppliers. This is continuously followed up at continuous shareholder meetings, for example at the latest ownership dialogue in September 2019. In addition, the Government has appointed the investigation Requirements for labour law conditions for purchases of companies with state ownership (Ds 2019:25) that have proposed that companies with state ownership should be covered by labour law conditions and requirements for their suppliers. The Government is continuing its work on the proposal and intends to return to the issue in the spring. It is important that our joint ventures contribute to a high level of competition and that Swedish employees' conditions do not deteriorate.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-241	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your answer. I want to start right at the end of what the Government said: it is important that our joint ventures contribute to fair competition and that Swedish employees do not get worse conditions. It's extremely important. And it is even more important for a company owned by the state to comply with the rules that exist in the labour market. In this case, it was not Swedish employees who were in the vehicles. In the interest of safety, so that there is no misunderstanding, I will say that on the three occasions that the haulage company in question was reported, it was not transport that was carried out for Postnord. There were other transport buyers. But the problem is that Postnord uses this truck. On two occasions the drivers were stopped by the police, who found that they did not comply with the rules on driving and rest times. On the third occasion it was more self-marking, for then the driver had not followed the road at a place of circulation, but had stood in the middle of the roundabout. There he was, and you can imagine what it was because of. The problem in the specific case of this interpellation debate was that several driver cards were run on. This is a huge concern in the transport industry. You have your regular driver's license that you drive with during the day, when the traffic police are working. If you were to be stopped, you could prove that you were driving according to the book. What is not clear then is that you have another couple of three driver cards, which you drive with at night. The tachograph also contains names other than those of the control system. That is exactly what happened on these occasions. What bothers me about this – I work a lot with questions about the nicest conditions in the transport industry – is that a government company uses this type of haulage company. Before I entered the Parliament, I worked in the haulage industry, and I can say that more than once I contacted my old colleagues in the police and tipped them off – now stop these transports; they come from time to time at these places! Almost every time it was about missions for Postnord. Postnord has thus been on the wallpaper and in the searchlight quite a long time at the police. Just before Christmas came these stops, and that is exactly what we were able to see. I think it is great that we are putting the light on this, and I very much hope that the Government will take this along with it and really steer towards state companies having to comply with the regulations. You have to procure transport that's cool. Otherwise, we will never achieve what is said in the last sentence of the Government's response: If we are to get there, we must take action on such occasions.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-248	Madam President, I would like I, too, had a life before Parliament. In terms of working life, I used to work in a trade union, precisely to secure in this case fair wages and conditions for members. Thomas Morell says that in this case it was not Swedish employees. No, that's correct. It is also correct that they did not drive for Postnord. But this goes hand in hand: if we do not have order in this case, if companies and companies – or, to a certain extent, individual traders and employees – are allowed to dump conditions or act fraudulently, as in this case, it is clear that it also affects the salaries and conditions of Swedish employees in a way that we, as a Social Democratic-led government, absolutely cannot accept. In the entire history of the labour movement, the starting point has been fair and fair conditions, both because it is fair for employees in general and because we believe that it is best for our society that we stick together. Against this background, I can assure both Thomas Morell, Madam President, and those watching over television that this is something that we will continue to work on. We're going to do this to the government portfolio, because it's important. There, as I said, is my ambition to further clarify and screw up the instructions during the spring so that there will be no doubt whatsoever that there will be fair conditions when you are out buying. But that's not enough. We are also part of an environment and a Union. We will also continue to push for stricter rules across the European Union. There is work going on in which both the government and, of course, a great deal of our parliamentarians have been involved. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, we have seen a number of examples. They are often already illegal and fraudulent, and we have the police and the judiciary to deal with that. However, in terms of monitoring and regulation, I can assure both this Parliament and those who watch on television that we will continue to work on this. One of the finest things about this country is that you as an employee should feel: I have a job to do, but I will also be able to be treated in a fair and fair way. That work will never be finished. That is why this government has previously set and will continue to bring to light what is not working. Although, as in this case, it can be pointed out that it is not about Swedish citizens or Swedish employees, it is connected. If we accept this for foreign wage earners, it will of course also have contagion effects on the Swedish labour market, and that will not be acceptable to this government.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-254	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I want to stick to the last sentence of the interpellation response, because it is central to the whole argument – this of our joint ventures contributing to sj yst competition. It is very important that the state sets an example. I have been involved in numerous debates in this House on unfair competition and the shameless use of people. That is also what we are talking about: it is pure human trafficking. You literally buy people. This is a scourge for the serious haulage industry. The serious haulage industry is not only Swedish haulage companies but also foreign haulage companies that are on the market. But the serious business is not able to cope with the competition of those who round the legislation. To illustrate this, I agree with the newspaper articles that lighted this particular field. One of the drivers had a combined driving time of 49 hours and 18 minutes without approved rest. On one occasion he had a 19 - hour and 54 - minute driving period. Another had been driving for 25 hours and 39 minutes. It's 122.1 miles. They found an approved rest in 3 hours and 23 minutes. These are extremely serious infringements. It not only eliminates competition; it also exposes all other road users to obvious danger of life when people sit behind the wheel and have been driving for 29 hours or have had a rest of 3 hours. I am extremely disturbed by the fact that a state-owned company is buying services from a company like this. I have been fighting for many years for a healthy haulage industry, for healthy business to have a reasonable chance of operating on the market and for the employees of these companies to have a safe employment. Then the trend goes in the opposite direction when the whole of the legislation is rounded in this way. Doing so is really easy. I usually say it's never been as easy to cheat as it is now. I left the traffic police in 2007, and by then the digital tachograph had been in operation for a year. Previously they had analog record sheets. Although that technique was old-fashioned, I would argue that it was easier for us out there on the road to break through the cheating. Today it is put into systems, with several driver cards or with magnets that knock out the tachograph. Then we'll have these effects. If you follow up on your business, it's quite simple: the car starts at one place, and it comes out at the other place. The stretch in between is that and so long. Then the driving time should reasonably be so and so long. You can therefore follow up by quite simple means and see whether the transport ordered has complied with the regulations or whether there is something that signals that there is cheating in the business. In that case, you should take action as a client – there is also criminal liability here.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-262	Madam President, I would like We fully agree that we need clear rules. Here it has also been open, to be said in all honesty. I believe that there has never been as much work as during the present government's time in tightening up rules, even at European level – many of these transports go beyond national borders – and in order to give the police reasonable opportunities and tools to stop those who engage in this. We have done this for a number of reasons, for example for reasons of competition – it is important that conditions are not pushed and weakened. In particular, the safety aspect of traffic is equally important. It should also be very clear that there are consequences when you act fraudulently. In addition, as I said, we have very clear demands on state-owned companies to act exemplaryly. In order for there to be no doubt at all that we should also require that we procure under labour law conditions, that there should be fair conditions, we will make further clarifications in the instructions. I think that is important, and if there is no doubt whatsoever in this government. I want to ask Thomas Morell a question. I listen to Thomas Morell, and it seems that he is very committed and knowledgeable in this area, so I do not doubt his commitment. But it is also widely known that the Swedish Democrats through Jimmie Åkesson have repeatedly expressed their desire and their dream of forming a conservative bloc together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats. We all know that both Moderates and Christian Democrats are often reluctant to make such demands. Not least in the work that is now under way in the European Union and in Parliament, there have been doubts about, for example, supporting the tightening up of requirements to assist in the haulage industry. Then, of course, one wonders: if this dream of a conservative bloc were to come true and a majority in this Parliament was to be found, then is it not quite a great risk that the regulations would deteriorate for hauliers? What have you been thinking about that, Thomas Morell? Will not what you say, and which I think sounds good, be almost impossible to implement with Moderates and Christian Democrats who do not agree at all in this case? Those who listen to the Swedish Democrats now risk being rather disappointed because they are planning to cooperate with parties that have a completely different view.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-266	Madam President, I would like I'll try to calm the government a little bit and answer the question I got. We had a debate in this House yesterday on the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism. Then this question was raised. I cannot answer for the Moderates, but I can at least reflect the debate a little. With regard to the vote down in the EU, the Moderates will vote greenly in favour of the proposal that exists, which means that the Swedish representation d is down will support a tightening up of the law. If you read the movements that came in during the general period of exercise, you can note that more and more of the parties in Parliament are following the line that I myself advocate. We need to keep our paths in order. We must protect serious business. Those who work and have their livelihoods in the transport industry must be able to live under fair conditions. We cannot have a system of human trafficking and direct slave labour on our roads. These must be fair terms, and there will be consequences if you do wrong. I note that with regard to the deal with this haulage company, other major transport buyers have stopped the cooperation, but Postnord has chosen not to do so. I find that very remarkable. One greeting I would like to send to the Government is that it must be clear from the state, i.e. the owner of the company, that this relationship cannot be accepted in any way, but must be kept clean of this type of activity.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-271	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt whatsoever as to what the demands should be. It should be fair conditions for employees and fair competition – if you win business, it should be because you are more skilled and productive, not because you engage in fraudulent practices or otherwise cheat. This should not only apply within the country's borders, because these are sectors that cross national borders – it is of course a matter of course. That is why we are pushing hard for clear European regulation. Yes, there have been doubts as to where some of the right parties stand, for example. There is no doubt about the current government. Over the past five years, we have done more than any government has ever done to ensure that we both have clear rules and that we follow them up. It is not enough just to have clear rules, but, for example, if you find someone who violates the rules, it should be easier to push the truck, for example, so that you cannot drive on as if nothing has happened. We will also continue to engage in a clear dialogue with state-owned companies. It goes without saying that we should comply with laws and regulations, but we should also set an example when it comes to purchasing so that we can guarantee fair competition and, above all, fair conditions for Swedish employees.
i-Symaa3RaBqNY5FxmyuzwJH	An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. I would like to extend a warm welcome to the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist, Minister of Education Anna Ekström and Minister Hans Dahlgren. The Minister for Social Affairs answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-275	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Lena Hallengren. It is a well-known fact that care queues have doubled during this government's time. The queues for children's and young people's psychiatry have also increased. They've tripled. And now we see that the cancer queues are also increasing. Through the parliamentary investigation service, we have produced figures that the government should take very seriously. For example, six out of ten women with breast cancer have to wait longer than the prescribed time for their surgery. Five out of six men with prostate cancer also do not receive their radiation treatment on time. That is totally unacceptable.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-279	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ulrika Heindorff, for an incredibly important question! This is something the government has been working hard on. In the year that I myself have been Minister of Social Affairs, we have taken a number of measures. We have updated the queue billions that were not quite as effective as we would like. Today it includes both return visits and primary care. It also provides an opportunity for all those who improve their efforts to benefit from the resources. The resources matter. It is also about efforts in terms of competence, not least specialist competence. The Council of Care Competences available from 1 January will play a major role. And it is about resources in the form of welfare billions in agreement between the Swedish Municipalities and Regions. We also have standardised healthcare processes, which are a very good way of working. It should not be seen as promised waiting times but as a way of working in a similar way around the country, to increase equality and to increase survival in cancer.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-283	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Government mentions both standardised health care courses and queue billions, which is a positive thing. I hold in my hand a debate article from 2014. It is written by Minister Hallengren together with Stefan Löfven. It is about all cancer patients being allowed to start treatment within four weeks. I mentioned some examples earlier. Even colon cancer and bladder cancer are areas where queues are long. Is Hallengren still standing by his election promise that was given almost six years ago?
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-286	Mr President, I would like to I stand by the electoral promises we made. I continue to say in every possible context that people have the right to care according to needs and care that they do not have to wait for when they have needs. I would like to emphasise that four weeks was a way of really being ambitious and showing that we are taking the issues seriously. However, the standardised health care processes are actually much more ambitious. It is not a question of waiting under a health guarantee, and perhaps not even four weeks, but much less than that. They started to be introduced in 2016. Today, we have over 40 standardised healthcare processes in place, and more and more are being investigated. I think that's a good thing.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-289	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask my question to Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. The rise of the Corona virus has been a cause for concern to many. Even if the virus turns out to be controllable, it may be a matter of time before we face a more serious epidemic. Today we have a difficult situation in Swedish health care with the lowest number of care places in Europe. Moreover, in the case of patients with severely infectious diseases, at the moment there is only one high insulation unit intended for this purpose. The tough situation in Swedish healthcare is a worrying factor in this context, especially when it comes to an increased need for care. Increased pressure on health care would be very difficult to deal with in the event of a serious epidemic. In view of the current situation in Swedish health care, I would like to know if the Minister for Social Affairs believes that Sweden is well prepared in the event of a serious epidemic.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-293	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Clara Aranda, for the question! And thank you for earlier today, when we met in the Social Affairs Committee! There we had a thorough review of the Swedish emergency preparedness in general and of course with a focus on the coronavirus. To be prepared for a crisis is to be prepared for different scenarios. State authorities have a role; disease protection experts really have a responsibility to ensure disease protection in Sweden. However, doctors in each region also have a responsibility to ensure that health care is equipped. With regard to the situation we have today, one cannot say that there is a particular strain on health care. However, as Clara Aranda says, it is important to be prepared for the situation to change. It is a work that is done regionally. My picture is that we are a country that has a good infrastructure and well prepared health care. It is clear, however, that if we find ourselves in a crisis situation, where things really are not like today, but in the event of an outbreak, we need to re-priorities and are prepared to deal with that situation. My picture is that you are.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-297	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs, for your answer. Despite this, the Minister for Social Affairs has made it difficult to see Sweden's readiness as sufficient. In addition, the Corona virus has not directly tested the actual preparedness of the healthcare system. There are far more parts of the preparatory work that we need to develop. To conclude, I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs whether there are plans to review Sweden's dependence on foreign pharmaceutical companies, in order to ensure that a shortage of medicines and vaccines does not become another risk factor in this context.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-300	Mr President, I would like to The issue moved on to a little more about emergency preparedness in general, including in the case of medicines. There's an investigation going on, to be handed over by the end of the year. I look forward to discussing the content of it with other members of the Committee on Social Affairs. Sweden, of course, must ensure that there is a constant level of preparedness. For the healthcare sector, the issue of pandemic and air-borne viral infection is a likely scenario that needs to be prepared for.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-304	Mr President, I would like to My question also goes to Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. More and more children and adolescents but also adults are receiving neuropsychiatric diagnoses, including adhd and asperger. For many, a diagnosis can mean that you get good support and help and good tools to manage to live your life with the difficulties that it sometimes entails. In recent times, however, we have seen an increase in people who want to get rid of their diagnoses in adulthood, not least in order to be able to do the lump or apply for police training, for example. From Lena Hallengren's area, I would like to hear how she sees that the police and the Swedish Armed Forces still largely exclude people with a diagnosis from applying at all for training.
i-WiLMNXtfJDdN625cCgowXi	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johanna Jönsson, for the question! I will honestly say that this is an issue that has not been given particular attention by the undersigned. I don't know if the Secretary of Defense recognizes it more than I do. The mission of health care and school, among other things, is to ensure that children and young people receive support and help. Not infrequently, a diagnosis is required. I find that unfortunate. Support and action should be available anyway. If this comes later in life and if it limits one's possibilities, it is unfortunate. I have no answer to how to deal with that question, but I am grateful that Johanna Jönsson has lifted it. We must continue with such discussions.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-311	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased to hear that the Government has a positive attitude towards trying to do something about this, for those who live with a diagnosis. We now know that it is one to two children in each school class who have a neuropsychiatric diagnosis or who live with that kind of problem. It is incredibly important that these people are not further stigmatised or given their opportunities limited. There is also a danger that this will keep people from actually taking the help and support that exists. This needs to be addressed. The Armed Forces are well on their way to doing something about it. The police really need to do more.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-313	Mr President, I would like to I can only say something short. Of course it is a very important balance. It's about feeling that you get support and help. You should have the opportunity to develop, to learn what you need and to get an education. But, of course, one should also work in a labour market. The Secretary of Defense is sitting here listening. I promise to pass the matter on to the Minister of Justice as well.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-315	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister Hans Dahlgren. The democratic situation in Poland and Hungary has deteriorated over the past year – this despite the initiation of an Article 7 procedure by the European Commission. Recently, the European Parliament tired of the Member States doing too little to reverse the worrying developments and voted that the EU Member States must do more to increase the pressure on these countries. I would therefore like to know how the Government intends to act to increase pressure on the governments of Poland and Hungary.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-317	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. It is an urgent matter of the state of the rule of law in these two countries. It is right to demand from us other members of the Union that we speak up and that we do what we can to bring about a change. We have a system in the European Union in which the European Court of Justice has the opportunity to deal with these things in different Member States, and this has been done in the case of both Poland and Hungary. And the Swedish Government has recently assisted the Commission in their action against Poland in the important case concerning the independence of the courts. However, we also have the opportunity to introduce in the budgetary negotiations currently under way a mechanism which makes it possible to require all Member States to fully respect the principles of the rule of law in order to obtain the payments to which they are entitled from the EU's treasury.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-319	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. An excellent tool for putting pressure on Poland and Hungary is available via the EU's long-term budget, which is now under discussion. Pull the support! Reducing the judiciary, democracy and human rights must be financially felt. It is not reasonable for European LGBT people to pay tax money to countries that introduce LGBTQ-free zones – that is absurd.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-320	Mr President, I would like to I agree with that principle. I think that if you do not stand up to our values, you should not have the same means as you would otherwise have. That's a good principle. We have broad support for this in the membership of the Union, but we are not quite there yet. It is an important final act to be done this year. I hope that we can all put such pressure on this issue that there will also be results.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-321	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs. We have a disaster situation in personal assistance. People with extensive disabilities are forced into isolation and house arrest. Parents are forced to give their children away to an institution. Finally, breathing and probe feeding are about to be saved. That's very good. The road has been long. But, Mr President, I am convinced that the Minister for Social Affairs knows that we Christian Democrats do not think that that is enough. It's gonna take more. All the basic needs must become the basis for assistance in its entirety. It is reasonable for a complete toilet visit to be counted, not just the time you dry your ass. But also the profession of personal assistant is vulnerable. The level of the hourly compensation for assistance is determined by the state budget, and the list has been much lower than the collective agreements for several years. Now there has been an investigation that proposes improved conditions. That's a good thing, but it takes more money. I therefore wonder whether the Minister for Social Affairs is prepared to provide more money in the spring change budget for the standard.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-324	Mr President, I would like to Thanks again, Pia! I really appreciate the commitment of Pia Steensland and the discussions and talks we have. With regard to the issue of personal assistance, I do not think that we only have a joint commitment. I also believe that we have a common concern about what is actually happening and that we have a common knowledge of how incredibly complex, difficult and difficult it is. It is certainly positive that the question of breathing and gavage has arrived. If it hadn't fallen into law, it would have been there a long time ago. Now came the issue of self-care, supervision and narrow parental responsibility, which helps. I would like to underline the dilemma of the break-up that we have had for many years and which really undermines assistance. However, we cannot have negotiations on our budget during Question Time in Parliament. Of course, these are collective discussions that we have. So far, there are flat-rate listings that are made according to agreements. When they change, we'll let you know.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-327	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The problem is that when the compensation for personal assistance falls behind quality is affected. It is both the persons entitled to assistance and the assistants who are affected. The profession becomes less attractive. But I think this: Ultimately, it is about priority and money. Much of the budget work is about that. The January parties invested many billions in reducing the military tax. Is it not time to give real priority to those who need the support of society most?
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-329	Mr President, I would like to This has been discussed many times in this House: that the defence tax had disappeared regardless of the political constellations that had ruled. It was a promise that the alliance parties also made to the Center Party and the Liberals. In addition, 20 billion were lost in another job tax deduction. That's too bad. Maybe they could have been used here. But, once again, I have a very great deal of commitment in terms of assistance and dealing with the issue of staff conditions. But we cannot have a spring budget negotiation in this House. That doesn't make any sense.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-332	Mr President, I would like to I, too, would like to address a question to Minister Lena Hallengren. Several research reports show that people with intellectual disability not only receive less treatment and treatment in healthcare. They also live a much more passive and less healthy life than the rest of the population. That's why we need more knowledge and changed ways of working in both healthcare and social services. In February next year we would have hosted Special Olympics World Winter Games in Åre and Östersund – the world's largest public health initiative and sports competition for people with intellectual disabilities. This is not the case because of a lack of national interest.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-335	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Bengt Eliasson, for the question! I think we are doing the issue a disservice by simplifying it in the way that the Member of Parliament is just doing. He makes it sound like it would be a national commitment that is missing. The state has never been the one who pays for major sporting events, for whatever purpose. On the other hand, it is very unfortunate and worrying, I think, that this type of arrangement is being launched and it creates expectations and hopes without having ensured that the costs associated with it can actually be met. Of course, we have many different issues relating to public health. There is also support for the sports movement in many different contexts. However, this has not fallen to the fact that the state is not involved, but rather that it has not ensured that it has an economic situation in which it can deal with the costs that it is known to be associated with hosting a major sporting event.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-338	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. For the first time in Sweden special health tests are being carried out, Healthy Athletes, precisely within the framework of this event – Special Olympics. It is a long-term health work and sport that puts people with intellectual disabilities in focus, which is really needed. The interest is great from the profession and local political life. Now it remains for us on the national level to move from words to action. How does the Government view this type of event and its financing?
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-340	Mr President, I would like to It is a question that falls on Minister of Culture and Sport Amanda Lind, and she has also answered the question before. Of course, I have also been reached by the question and answered just as now: the state does not host or fund major sporting events. This applies regardless of who arranges them and what the purpose is. Before you start a big event and raise expectations and hopes, it is incredibly important that you have secured this. I very much hope that there is an opportunity for them to run this arrangement in different ways, but the state does not stand for and do not pay for major events.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-344	Mr President, I would like to Recently, the media have noted the increase in the number of private health insurance policies and the increasing number of private health care providers among insurance patients and patients funded by the regions. Through new services, such as Book the Doctor, insurance companies can directly go in and book operating times and treatments on behalf of their own patients. With this development, the question can well be raised as to whether these private health care providers violate the portal clauses of the Health Care Act. I am therefore curious about what the Minister for Social Affairs thinks about this development and would like to know what initiatives the Minister for Social Affairs is prepared to take to ensure good and equal health care.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-346	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Yasmine Bladelius! Swedish healthcare is based on care as needed. The important thing is always how you feel, not if you have the ability to pay for yourself. For generations, we have built Swedish healthcare on that very principle and combined quality and equality. It is clear, however, as the honourable Member says, that this system is actually under threat. Just as we social democrats have long warned against, this is a growing market, and the consequences that can exist when health insurance policies eat into health care may play a very serious role when people who can afford to take out insurance receive care faster than those who cannot afford to do so. The question was also what the government intends to do. During the last parliamentary term, a legislative proposal was presented which would make it clear that it is the needs that should govern. It was a proposal that then fell into the parliament. The Government and I intend to present a new proposal to Parliament in the near future and to give all parliamentary parties another chance to make a decision.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-350	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is such an extremely important issue for all of us who think that care should be given as needed and not according to the size of our wallets. As more and more Swedes take out private health insurance, both health care providers and experts warn that insurance patients actually crowd out patients who come through public health care. I very much believe that this is a major problem and am therefore pleased that the Minister for Social Affairs takes this issue so seriously and will come back later on.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-352	Mr President, I would like to I would really like to emphasise once again that we have a situation today where too many people have health insurance for various reasons. If this continues to increase and we do not make sure to stop this trend, but quietly watch when private health insurance takes over and is also mixed with public-funded care, care as needed is threatened. I take that very seriously.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-353	Mr President, I would like to Everyone who has been involved in a crisis and safety exercise at the local level knows how important the issue of drinking water is. Clean water has now become even more important in the defence policy, when the requirements of the new regulation letter to the defence show that the problems of leaking PFAS from fire drill sites should be identified and addressed in different ways. A systematic work is certainly something that should characterize both the Swedish Armed Forces' work and environmental policy. In Uppsala, the news from the government has been very much welcomed, since PFAS substances from Ärna contaminated Uppsala's drinking water supply, which led to large additional costs for water purification.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-356	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. The Government has decided that the Swedish Armed Forces will present an action plan for PFAS in June 2020, i.e. this year, and how to deal with issues related to fire-extinguishing agents. It is also a question of looking at what options there are. The Swedish Armed Forces conduct their operations in a public authority manner based on the various permits they have received and comply with the regulations that are in place. Here it is now a matter of taking out the stride length and moving forward, and therefore we have given the mission to achieve the action plan to be presented at the mid-year end.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-359	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Defence, for your answer. With regard to the historical discharges that have taken place, the polluter is responsible for taking care of it, although it was not known when it was released that it was dangerous. The government's clear wording in the regulation letter will now be able to contribute to the systematic and uniform management of clean-up and compensation claims throughout the Swedish Armed Forces. Is it also the Government's ambition to get this systematics in place?
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-362	Mr President, I would like to The issue of compensation is mentioned in the directive. It is at a later stage, if that is to happen, about the exercise of authority that takes place through the courts, and I do not want to precede that kind of handling. However, it is mentioned in the regulations that we have now decided on.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-364	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Education Anna Ekström. Already in the autumn of 2019, the Moderates criticised the government with support parties for not prioritising welfare in their budget. We are already seeing how municipalities and regions need to save in school, health and social care, as well as in police and justice. We see cuts, redundancies and even tax increases, in some of our most important welfare areas. The Moderates, now supported by the Left Party, have therefore proposed a so-called rescue package of 7.5 billion, which we immediately invest in general state subsidies. It is important that it is general grants and not targeted ones, for that is enough for the municipalities. For Gothenburg, where I come from, it would mean an addition of about 295 million. It could be 481 teachers or 584 nurses – much needed. For the Västra Götaland region, this would amount to SEK 376 million, which would correspond to 550 nurses. My question to the Minister for Education is whether she does not see with the same concern as us at what is happening in school. Doesn't the minister see that every fourth student is out of the ninth grade without a full grade? Teachers quit because they lack competent colleagues, and more graduate high school without complete grades.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-369	Mr President, I would like to Surely it is a bit bleak that a representative of the party who put a so-called napkin sketch to the budget on Parliament's table and made sure that 20 billion were taken from welfare stands here and accuses the government of spending too little money on the school. Despite the poor starting position that we received because of the budget adopted by the Riksdag, the government, together with the partner parties, committed more government money to the school than we have previously had. One of the important investments that we managed to find resources for was an investment in teacher assistants, a category that can relieve our teachers and ensure that in the time of the teacher shortage they can put their precious time and strong and much needed energy into strengthening children's education. The money for these teaching assistants now wants the Moderates to remove from school. So the money you say you spend on public welfare is taken from school. Very powerful!
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-374	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Education Anna Ekström. Today, the teachers' newspaper reports about the tough economic situation for the country's municipalities and that it has devastating consequences for the Swedish school. Over 40% of municipalities have to save on schools. One third of municipalities have to lay off existing school staff. Nearly six out of ten municipalities will not be able to recruit new staff in comprehensive school. This is despite the fact that Sweden has been in a boom for many years and despite billions of state aid. For a long time, the Swedish Democrats have been pointing out that irresponsible migration policy would have devastating consequences for the school. We were met with enormous criticism, not least from the Social Democrats. In view of this, I would like to ask the Minister for Education whether she sees any link with the irresponsible migration policy and the cuts that are now sweeping the Swedish school sector.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-379	Mr President, I would like to I shall not bore the Members of the Riksdag with repeating the difficult consequences of the budget that the Riksdag unfortunately adopted in Sweden's schools. I do not want to use the speaking time for that either. Instead, I welcome the fact that the results of Swedish knowledge are rising in all international studies. They're doing it from a bad situation. As we now see that the results of knowledge are rising, it is important to set aside resources for the school that can make this continue and that everyone will benefit. Patrick Reslow asks if there is a connection between immigration and reduced resources. I can assure Patrick Reslow that there is a strong connection between the fact that we have many who go to school and many who are getting older in Sweden. The fact that we have more 80-year-olds and that the 90s have children is something that I am delighted about. This requires us to ensure that there are good resources in Swedish schools so that we can continue the acquisition of knowledge. It deserves Sweden's children, and it deserves Sweden's older people.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-383	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Hultqvist and concerns the Swedish Armed Forces and wind power. It is gratifying for the Center Party that the government, in its regulatory letter to the Swedish Armed Forces, calls for collaboration and consultation on wind power establishment and says that the Swedish Armed Forces must begin to compare their position with that of other countries. For example, how is it that the Swedish Armed Forces apply other requirements when it comes to the ignition of obstacle lighting on masts? It is also justified to ask what role the Swedish Armed Forces should play in contributing to the country's electricity supply during a lockdown so that in such a situation we become independent of imported electricity. The Swedish Armed Forces also need to relate to larger and more efficient works and to expectations from society of being able to grow with housing and activities within what the Swedish Armed Forces have so far been able to point out as their national interests. What expectations does the Minister have for the Swedish Armed Forces to meet the demands made on it for collaboration and dialogue on wind power expansion?
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-389	Mr President, I would like to This is a matter of social balance. We need more wind power and solar energy, what we call alternative energy, to make us more independent in different ways. It is an important endeavour. I am well aware that there may be conflicts of interest in connection with different types of establishment. This has been the case, and this has happened. However, the Swedish Armed Forces have to comply with regulations and decisions from the authorities based on the guidelines that the Riksdag and the Government, among other things, lay down. The world of expectation I have is that one can cooperate as far as possible but that there must also be consideration for what can be called the interests of the Armed Forces and the defence. The defence is an opportunity and asset for Sweden and an important part of our overall state organization, which is ultimately about safeguarding our sovereignty and territorial integrity. It is also a question of achieving that balance.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-394	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Hallengren. The investigation on paternity and parenthood was launched in spring 2017 and was commissioned to review parts of the parental code's rules on the determination of paternity and parenthood. It has proposed changes to the presumption rules so that we have greater equality of treatment regardless of what a family looks like and new ways of recognising parenthood digitally. Equal treatment of children is a good thing. There are proposals here to strengthen it. Greater equal treatment is also important for different family constellations. Simplified parenthood confirmation would save both time and money around the country's municipalities, which is welcome in the municipalities. But the investigation and its proposals are stuck on the road. When does the government intend to present concrete legislative proposals on this?
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-398	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that it is important to do everything possible to facilitate parenthood confirmation, both for the sake of parents and to reduce administration. As far as the specific investigation is concerned and exactly why it is stuck, I believe that this question should be put to the minister responsible. It's about the parental code and questions about it. I cannot answer why the investigation has stuck, but I am absolutely convinced that the question will come back to Parliament. That's why the investigation was set up.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-401	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. Cancer caused by human papillomavirus is one of our most common and serious cancers that affects both men and women. Preventing such a serious form of cancer is incredibly important for the individual as well as for society, both in terms of human suffering and the cost it causes to health care and society. We have a unique opportunity to eradicate this form of cervical cancer. What Sweden needs to do is, above all, to introduce catch-up screening for women who have passed the upper age limit and catch-up vaccination for women who have not received vaccines. In the opinion of those responsible, this would cost 25 million a year, a total of 150 million in six years. My question is whether the Minister for Social Affairs is willing to examine the issue during the spring budget work.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-405	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Cecilia Engström, for an important question! To suffer from cancer is of course very heavy, both for the sufferer and for the relatives. Of course, if we can prevent cancer, it is urgent. That is also why it is now possible to vaccinate even for boys. The fact that we have extended the vaccination programme is positive. Let's see how we continue our work. It is a matter for the regions to consider. It is also an issue in which the government listens to our authorities and the advice we receive when it comes not only to reducing the spread of infection, as we have talked about earlier in this House, but also to eradicating diseases that can be eradicated by means of vaccines. Let us return to that question.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-409	Mr President, I would like to Around 100 000 Swedes live, work, study and live their lives in the UK. Around 30,000 Britons do the same here in Sweden. The exchange between our countries has been significant since time immemorial, and the relationship between Sweden and the UK continues, of course, to be very important even after Brexit. Finally, after endlessly if and but, the United Kingdom has left the EU and the so-called transitional period has begun. Now that the remaining EU Member States, including Sweden, may know a little more about the future relationship, I would like to ask Minister Dahlgren: What is the government doing to ensure that Swedish citizens who live, live, work, care for children, become ill and so on in the UK and travel back and forth between countries continue to have a good life?
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-411	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Olle Thorell, for a question that affects a great many people! I think many of us felt a little sad on Friday evening when it was found that for the first time a Member State has left our Union. But it is not as bad as it could have been if the British crashed out of the EU and we had a disorderly exit. Now we have a transitional period throughout this year. In answer to the question, I can say that we have negotiated with the British a regime whereby British people living here in Sweden and Swedes living in the UK have basically the same conditions throughout this year. This also applies to our trade, our security cooperation and many other things that we do with the British. We will use the time until the end of December to negotiate a new agreement that regulates the new relationship. There it is our ambition to cooperate as deeply and as widely as possible and not least to ensure that our citizens, our citizens in the UK and theirs here, get as close as possible to the conditions they have today.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-415	Mr President, I would like to Too many young people commit serious crimes. Not least, it's about young guys who don't go to school but get involved in crime. The worst results of this are shootings leading to deaths and explosions. Last autumn, the government presented a 34-point programme against serious gang crime. Two of the points concerned more LVU sites and more Sis sites with improved quality. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs how she views the situation with Sis and LVU sites. Is it possible to improve quality in the way that is intended and needed?
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-417	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Rasmus Ling, for the question, and for the perspective is both increased punishment and more police – all we can to combat the gang crime we see – and social and preventive efforts. In fact, LVU is also a preventive effort. This is not always the way you think, but the ambition is still to give treatment and at the same time work at home so that the person can get back to a daily life, a reality and a much brighter future. It is absolutely possible to strengthen quality. We also need to have more seats on our Sisboendes to enable LVU dealings. All of this we are working with, and in addition will shortly, at the end of March, a restatement from Statskontoret and IVO, which has looked at the quality of all HVB and Sishem. This is also a starting point when we make improvements.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-421	Mr President, I would like to Swedish healthcare faces major challenges and needs to adapt so that care closest to people is also expanded. The Stockholm region is one of the most advanced regions in this transition, and it is also where the queues are at their shortest. The Government and the Riksdag have also decided on new governing principles for healthcare in Sweden. It is now the law that all regions should follow Stockholm and change. In order for this transition to succeed, the Government itself emphasises in its proposal that it is important that all actors strive in the same direction. When hospitals in Region Stockholm do exactly what the government and parliament have decided on, Minister Morgan Johansson calls this a slaughter of health care. Mr President, I wonder what Minister Hallengren thinks about this action and whether it is appropriate with regard to legislation.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-424	The questions shall relate to the performance of the duties of the Government. Questions about what other ministers have said may not fit within this. However, the Government is happy to comment on the health care-related part of the issue.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-425	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that clarification. That everyone should follow Region Stockholm is probably still a wishful thinking, I think, among the politicians in the region. This has not been said by either the government or anyone else. However, it is of course incredibly important that we constantly work to ensure that care is brought closer to people. I am not sure that all Stockholmers agree that this is what is happening in Stockholm right now. I am not sure that one shares that view when one actually has to wait the longest of all in the emergency room. The S.E.S.A. has had the longest waiting time for many years. I have great respect for the complexity of healthcare. But it is also remarkable that the region with perhaps the best conditions – the highest growth, the youngest and healthier population, the best infrastructure and also access to both basic and specialist staff – does not always get it together. I think it is an incorrect description which I do not share when it is said that the conversion that takes place in Stockholm would be ordered from national sources. It's Stockholm's own decision.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-430	Mr President, I would like to Psychiatry is under strong pressure and has been so for a long time. For a person who is exposed to some form of trauma, it is not uncommon to experience post-traumatic stress syndrome afterwards. This is a very serious diagnosis that can lead to both depression and, at worst, suicide. In Borlänge there is a crisis and trauma clinic that specializes in this diagnosis. Since 2018, all patients in Dalarna who have suffered from post-traumatic stress syndrome have been able to go to this clinic. However, due to the strong influx of new patients, the reception has chosen to receive only new arrivals and asylum seekers in the future. Other citizens of society who receive this serious diagnosis are now referred to ordinary psychiatry, where access to this specialist competence is limited.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-433	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Per Ramhorn, for the question! It is still a bit sad that the Swedish Democrats, when they are going to discuss healthcare, should always have an edge against unaccompanied and newly arrived – that it should be where we find the conflicts. I don't know how to reason in Borlänge. I think regional politicians in Dalarna will have to answer what it looks like there. But it is clear that it is always the needs that should govern. As I described earlier when I was asked about private health insurance, it is precisely this that will govern Swedish health care, whether it is primary or specialist care or specialist care for those suffering from PTSD.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-436	Mr President, I would like to In the fight against the Corona virus, it is natural that the World Health Organisation, WHO, is an important platform for cooperation. The government website says that information from the WHO is important, especially for those planning a trip. The government and the relevant authorities will surely follow their information closely. Unfortunately, however, not everyone has the same opportunities for cooperation within the WHO as Sweden. Taiwan, which is also a full democracy, lacks this opportunity. This risks harming both them and us. Taiwan has a well-developed healthcare system and can help globally. I would like to address my question to Lena Hallengren: Would it not be good for the work against the Corona virus on Taiwan that everyone else had the opportunity to cooperate within the WHO?
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-439	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hampus Hagman, for the question! I choose to interpret it in a slightly broader perspective and say that it is clear that the WHO is an incredibly important player, not least in these contexts when we really get to know that health threats are not only national but very much global and that we need to work together and help each other. Sweden contributes to the WHO both economically and through dialogue. The Director-General of the Public Health Authority will go to African countries to provide knowledge and experience. Of course we want everyone to be able to access the information. The WHO really must work to reach out in the best possible way. In Sweden, we are doing everything we can, not to let everyone read what the WHO says, but to convey the information that is relevant to Sweden via our authorities and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-442	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. Mali is severely affected by political divisions as well as crime and terrorism. The humanitarian consequences for the population are great. During the last five years, Sweden has contributed to the UN-led MINUSMA operation in Mali. Sweden has taken a large and broad responsibility and has also contributed to different levels of management. At present, the entire military operation is also led by a Swedish. I know that the Minister of Defence recently visited Mali and takes the situation in the country very seriously. Yesterday, the Swedish Armed Forces confirmed that they had been commissioned to plan for a possible Swedish contribution in a new French-led operation. My question is therefore simply what is the basis for the government considering a Swedish contribution in the new effort.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-445	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Alexandra Völker, for the question! Mali and the surrounding area are very unstable, with human trafficking, drug trafficking, religious extremism and terrorist groups. The UN operation Minusma is extremely necessary in order to maintain the balance in the region in different ways. In addition, Operation Barkhane, for which France is responsible, is also planned for further operations in the area. It is necessary to help stabilise this part of the world. If we fail to do so, the state of Mali will of course be undermined. This, in turn, could lead to criminal and terrorist groups taking over and, in various ways, also threatening Europe so that we can experience different types of negative events in our part of the world.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-448	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put the question to Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. We have heard earlier today about the growing cancer queues. Strong efforts are needed here and now for all the patients who are waiting. We in politics must do everything we can to prevent people from getting sick. Many know that through healthy living habits such as moving around and having healthy eating habits and weight, we can reduce the risk of cancer diagnosis and other diseases. Health care plays an important role, but also society at large. The role of politics is to make it easier for people to make healthy choices. In order for healthy and preventive interventions to have an impact at community level, work must be done over the organisational drain pipes. Here we need new momentum, and the government is ultimately responsible and needs to deliver. I am now also looking at the Minister of Education. The school is an important part of preventive and health-promoting strategy work. The Moderates have presented the Riksdag's first prevention and health promotion exercise, one of which is a national health promotion strategy. My question to the Minister for Social Affairs is therefore: is it not time for that now?
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-453	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ulrika Jörgensen, for the question! It is incredibly important that we do what we can to prevent. It is important to prevent cancer and all other diseases that are lifestyle related in order for us to have the limited care and health care available. Let me give examples of preventive work. We smoke very little in Sweden today. It is about people taking in facts and knowledge and, I dare say, above all political decisions, for example not allowing smoking in public places. This summer, we have taken further decisions to avoid smoking in platforms or other outdoor environments, and not near restaurants, to ensure that smoking is denormalized, so that young people do not face smoking in their surroundings. Nevertheless, it is regrettable that the Moderates have not pushed this type of issue. I think every cancer doctor would stress that the most important thing we can do to reduce the incidence of cancer is to make sure that fewer people smoke.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-457	Mr President, I would like to My question was to Anna Ekström. We certainly need more police officers, and it can certainly be justified to increase the penalties for a number of crimes in the fight against serious crime. The government's actions are quite right. But it is not enough just to be hard on the crimes; we also need to get to the causes of the crimes. We need to stop the recruitment. We must show alternatives to those young people who are at risk of being sucked up by criminal networks. We must give these young people hope. School plays an extremely important role in this work. Every kid has the right to succeed in school and to receive support, knowledge and guidance that gives confidence and strength and creates trust.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-461	Mr President, I would like to A completed schooling is the best vaccine against crime, against exclusion and against not being at home in society. We have a big problem in Sweden: We see that the differences between schools are increasing, and we see an increasing school segregation. Despite the rising knowledge results in Pisa, we see that the differences are actually increasing. We must act against the consequences of this. For example, we need to strengthen collaboration between school, social services and the police. Teachers should not be social workers, but they should be well assisted in catching up with those students who need early support. But everything we do to counteract the consequences of school segregation must also be complemented by the fact that we are tough on school segregation itself. Here we must see the school as a meeting place, where children and students can meet. In that way, the school can actually be that vaccine that makes every kid feel needed in society and that you can succeed yourself.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-464	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is considering participating in a new Malian operation with special forces. I would now like to emphasise that neither the government nor Parliament has taken a position on the request made by France. International commitments mean, of course, that large resources for the Swedish Armed Forces are being used that could be needed at home in the construction of our national defence. I would like to know how the Minister for Defence views future international military operations based on the needs at home versus maximum impact in foreign operations.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-466	Mr President, I would like to It is quite correct that the Riksdag and the Government have not yet taken a position on any new international effort. However, there is also a specific allocation, which is laid down each year for international action. If we're going to make international efforts, that money will be spent. It is not, therefore, a question of displacement for national defence. As far as national defence is concerned, the government I represent has made a deal with the Centre Party and the Liberals of 25 billion by 2025. It should also be a good platform for future discussions in defence negotiations. This is an increase in the allocation of approximately 40%. It cannot be said, therefore, that if we carry out certain international activities which, moreover, give us positive effects back from other countries, it will displace the other activities. In fact, we are investing in national defence, unlike what it was like once.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-469	Mr President, I would like to This week, the Minister of Education presented reforms to change adult education. It is very welcome and really about time. We need a closer link between adult education and skills provision in Sweden, but even more is needed. We need more knowledge for each tax chandelier. We need more quality follow-up from the Swedish School Inspectorate. We need external examiners, among other things. But what I would particularly like to ask the Minister for Education about is an extension of the education obligation. When it comes to people applying for social assistance or support in municipalities, municipalities have the opportunity to make demands for participation in labour market measures, for example, but we would also like to make it possible for those who do not have upper secondary education to complete their upper secondary education in return. We know that vocational training combined with SFIs, for example, works very well. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Education: is this something that will come into place?
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-471	Mr President, I would like to A completed schooling is a vaccine against a lot of accidents in life, but a completed upper secondary school education, whether it is via youth upper secondary school or via komvux, is a vaccine against unemployment. Sweden's employers are screaming for skilled labour, and those who are currently unemployed very often lack basic education. It is therefore very good that the government has presented a large package to strengthen the supply of skills. Komvux is given an extended mandate to also promote the supply of skills. We are changing the order of priorities and gender to komvux, so that those who need education come first. It's good for employers. We are also increasing state co-financing, which is absolutely essential for the places to exist. We are convinced and work together with the Center and Liberals to ensure that regional adult education plays a greater role in ensuring that all people who want to work will also work.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-475	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Secretary of Defense. We have read in the Swedish Defence Committee's report Värnkraft that a coherent management of total defence would be the best for Sweden, so that it would be only one department instead of today's two who were responsible for total defence issues.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-478	Mr President, I would like to The Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Justice have a joint responsibility for the total defense. The part that is on the civilian side and for which the Ministry of Defence is responsible is the support to the Swedish Armed Forces, and then there is a purely civilian emergency preparedness. Cooperation between the two departments works well. There is now a process in progress where we are preparing a defence bill according to Värnkraft, which is the Defence Committee's proposal. At the same time, a process is under way on the civilian side where the authorities come in with opinions based on the proposal of the Defence Committee. This part they come into at the beginning of March, and then this will be summarized so that you get a total defense bill. As far as the precise division of labour between the departments is concerned, this is a matter for the Prime Minister.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-481	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren, who also answers general policy questions. I have the same question as my colleague, Hampus Hagman, to whom he did not answer, namely the spread of the new Corona virus and Taiwan. Taiwan is particularly vulnerable because of its geographical location but also because the World Health Organisation excludes Taiwan from the exchange of information. It is no secret that it is China that is behind Taiwan's exclusion. It is tragic whether consideration for a dictatorship should outweigh people's lives and health. The United States, Japan and Canada have already said that the World Health Organisation is going to bring Taiwan.
i-b07ba28971c4b1f9-485	Mr President, I would like to I have no other answer to Boriana Åberg than I gave to Hampus Hagman earlier. As far as the WHO's balances are concerned, it must be the WHO that stands for them, but I am, of course, keen that the WHO, Sweden and all countries contribute to ensuring that we can stop the spread of the Corona virus.
