i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-0	Mr President, I would like to The gang violence is eating up society. Our young people who will dream of the future must not do so. Rather, they are robbed and shot at and caught in the roadblocks of criminal gangs. Liberals demand repressive action: more stringent penalties, new tools for police and prosecutors and mercilessly hitting the money among those who choose crimes as life's work. At the same time, the liberals are calling for an historic effort to prevent social action. Call it a Marshall plan for the suburbs or call it a suburban lift. Mr President, I would like to We have called today's debate because we want to see a real change. The question is whether you other parties are prepared to both crush gangs and give vulnerable children and young people massive support for a reasonable chance of life. Can you combine this? Sweden must once again become known as the land of opportunity, not as a place for gang executions and brutal violence.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-4	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Liberals for an urgent and painfully topical debate on gang violence. Although the entire budget has not been presented by the government, we have presented, in cooperation with the Center Party and the Liberals, a series of decisive initiatives both on a growing police force and on a strengthened judiciary, but also on several preventive actions, not least the suburban lift that Johan Pehrson mentioned here earlier with efforts for language, teacher resources and child care. The effort to work both repressively and preventively is crucial to succeed in breaking the gang violence. But I'm going back to the debate. A 12-year-old girl has been murdered at a gas station in Botkyrka. In Gothenburg gang criminals believe that they can take the right to set up roadblocks. In Rinkeby, a 20-year-old man is murdered. Among the Witnesses were children. Humans are rightfully cursed. Those most affected by gang crime are people who live in our most vulnerable and poor residential areas in Sweden, ordinary people who want to be able to buy food, pick up the kids at preschool and socialize in peace in the park and women who want to be able to go home alone at night. Between January and August this year 228 shootings took place. From January to July, 125 blasts took place. Nothing excuses these acts. But 30 years of state absence and increased divisions and segregation have consequences, and every young person who chooses the criminal path is a social failure. Therefore, this government has undertaken and is making great efforts both to strangle the recruitment of the criminal gangs and to put the guilty behind bars and bars. Since autumn 2014, we have tightened up more than 50 sentences, introduced more than 20 new crimes, and expanded the punishable area for more than 50 crimes. We are now halfway towards the target of 10,000 more police workers in 2024. But thousands more cops will be hired in the future. The government has made it easier for the police to set up security cameras in the streets and squares. In the last year alone, over 100 new cameras have been installed in the country. We have doubled the minimum penalty for serious weapons offences from one to two years, which means compulsory detention. Since the law came into force, the number of people arrested for gun crimes has increased fivefold. The police are now being given new tools and opportunities. With the 34-point programme we presented the biggest package against gang crime ever in Sweden. We've given the police the ability to read encrypted communications. We're going to give the police better access to the search warrant. We are abolishing the penalty for young adults in the event of serious crime. We want to break the culture of silence. This is why we are currently investigating, among other things, Crown witnesses and witness protection and whether opportunities should be introduced to testify anonymously. We are also introducing the penalty for youth surveillance. I share people's grief and anger, but I am also determined. I am firmly convinced that it can be reversed. We saw it during Rimfrost, where the police gathered the most. We saw that the shootings and the explosions decreased in Malmö. But more are also arrested for serious gun crimes throughout the country, and gang leaders are arrested through international cooperation. Step by step, we are now rolling out new tools and penalties. Step by step, we move the state back to our vulnerable areas with more police officers. Step by step, we ensure that other authorities contribute to the work of putting pressure on gang criminals from several quarters at the same time, not least by chasing the money. We want to deliver more cops, more cameras and more penalties. But that will not be enough. It also requires us to strangle the recruitment. The social failure that this entails when a 17-year-old shoots someone to death probably started ten years earlier. We need a stronger police force, an equal school, a present social service and reduced segregation. We are going to take responsibility for the situation here today, but we are also going to take responsibility for the future.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-11	Mr President, I would like to Today, the Swedish Parliament is holding a debate in the light of the increasingly alarming gang crime that plagues Sweden. We can see that the number of shootings and blasts seems to have stuck to a very high level in Sweden. The difference with our neighbours is obvious. It is actually difficult to find any other analogue country that is experiencing what Sweden is undergoing right now. It is also difficult to describe the efforts of this government in any other way than a failure. In the 2014 Government Declaration, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven promised to fight crime. This is a promise that has since been repeated in 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and now again in 2020. We recognise the pattern: new declarations of government, new promises and new failures. The government sounds tough on gang crime. But in reality, you're weak. One year after the presentation of its 34-point programme, the results are still bright with their absence. Despite all promises of force and mobilization, this year there have been more shootings, more deaths and more blasts than last year. Although the work would be given the highest priority, only 2 out of 34 points were completed a whole year later. Mr President, I would like to At the same time, there is hope. It doesn't have to be like this. Danish governments have succeeded in what Stefan Löfven, Morgan Johansson and Mikael Damberg have failed to do, namely to attack the gangs with the strength needed to force them back. We must be as tough on the criminal gangs as they have been in Denmark for a long time. It's not about doing the most things, it's about doing the right things – what's pattern breaking. These are search zones, anonymous witnesses, double penalties for gang criminals, criminalising gang participation, increased parental responsibility and a social service with sharper tools. Of course, we will also expel more foreign citizens who commit crimes in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates have decided: We will do everything in our power to stop gang progress and make Sweden safe. You can do that. The race is not over, but the problems can be solved. But then political leadership must begin to step forward and take control of social development – not just following it. That's how we win against the gang criminals.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-16	Mr President, I would like to We are again having a debate on the serious, serious violence in our country linked to gang crime. Let me just state at the outset that no criminal policy proposal will bring about a long-term change as long as we continue to have irresponsible immigration and do not succeed in expelling more criminal foreigners than Sweden receives. In this respect, the Swedish Democrats continue to be the most credible party to really get to grips with organised crime. From the government and from several different parties we hear about new proposals and new approaches to gang crime. Already in 2012, the Swedish Democrats in the Swedish Parliament launched a broad package against organised crime. It was a gang package that contained lots of different proposals that we now, in 2020, hear other parties think are relevant. It would have been even better if we had already been able to implement many of the proposals raised by the Swedish Democrats. It was about, for example, Crown Witness systems and participation in a criminal organisation. It was about anonymous witnesses, and it was about lowering the limit for the use of secret coercive measures – that is, many of the proposals that today seem to have an ever-widening acceptance among more parties. If we had done as the Swedish Democrats proposed in 2012, we would not have had the development that Sweden had to endure during the two governments that have been sitting until now. Nor can we have a government run from the back seat. The Social Democrats often say that the penalties for different types of crime are being tightened up and that one is being carried out, but the Social Democrats did not go to elections to introduce anonymous witnesses so that ordinary citizens dare to testify against organised crime. On the contrary, the Social Democrats chose not to introduce anonymous witnesses. The reason why today we have an investigation into anonymous witnesses and increased witness support is that the Swedish Democrats were first forced to convince a majority in the Swedish Parliament that this was a necessary proposal because we had a development in our country that was very serious. Since then, a majority in this House has forced a position on the part of the government in which, now after the elections, it claims that this may be a part of tackling organised crime. This is a clear example of government being controlled from the back seat. This is a clear example of why policies are always perceived to be lagging behind the development of organised crime in our country. We must have a government that is governed by its own will and that has its own idea and its own idea of how to get to the criminal gangs – not a government that is constantly pulling the brakes until it has a parliamentary majority against it, and then comes up with proposals. It is a useless management of ordinary people's lives in society and the vulnerability of ordinary people to organised crime. The Swedish Democrats are the brightest star in this Assembly when it comes to combating serious organised crime.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-24	Mr President, I would like to It is impossible not to be upset by the crimes committed within the framework of gang crime. It is difficult to keep our temper contained when we see the ruthlessness shown, and it is easy to feel frustration at the inability here and now to put an end to the crime that spreads fear and creates insecurity. It is understandable that we are doing all we can to try to come up with new methods, legislative changes and other things to solve the problems, and perhaps it is also natural to see the opponent's weaknesses in this area and highlight them. All of this is justified, but it does not necessarily bring us closer to a solution. Some wise person once said that in order to succeed we must keep our heads cold, heart warm and powder dry. There's a lot in it. The enormous problems of gang crime we see have emerged for a long time. Social and economic exclusion has grown, and although it can never be an excuse for people to fall into crime, we know that it is a central reason. The inability to solve alienation problems is reflected in the inability to stop the criminal gangs' progress. Without solving the problems that our Swedish labour market suffers from, without addressing the mental ill health of young people and without a sensible chance for those who have moved or moved to our country to enter society, we do not stop the influx into the criminal gangs. And if we do not, we will have to stand here and debate this serious subject time and again, year by year. That, Mr President, is not good enough. We must all shoulder our responsibilities to break the development of gang violence. We must be able to see beyond the temporary gains of opinion and do what is right for Sweden. We must put prestige aside, realize and admit that we have done too little and sometimes even made mistakes. We must be prepared to reconsider old positions when we understand that the world has changed. We must develop policies and our laws, but we must do so long-term and based on research and proven experience as far as ever possible. There's no quick fix. Anyone who thinks it is not the right task to solve the serious problems of gang crime. There is no single proposal which, in a magic act, removes crime, and there is nothing we can do today or say that will restore overnight the security that has been lost to so many people. It will require urgent and sustained work, and it will require more cooperation and less contention.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-29	Mr President, I would like to Innocent people suffer brutal violence. Sweden is drawn apart between the poor and the rich, and the gaps are increasing. For over 30 years, governments have invested more in creating gaps than in creating security. It has deliberately laid the foundations for the crime we see on our streets today, by destroying welfare with economic ruin. It takes time to build up what is broken, but it would be possible to do-- if we had a government filled with brave politicians who dared to make long-term decisions. We don't have that today. Crime erupts from segregation. When society as a whole, with housing, schools and health centres, leaves the suburbs, it creates enormous insecurity. That is why I am frankly pissed off at the government's political priorities. The Social Democrats call the state budget a hell of an effort on welfare, while only going further and further to the right with demands for longer sentences and tougher laws, even though we know that duplicating legislation will not solve anything. This is what the Swedish police know – those who work in the areas. The police have been saying for years that they alone cannot overcome gang crime without the need for comprehensive action from the whole of society. After all, gang crime looks very similar whether it's about networks, friends or family ties. There is a strong link with vulnerable areas. Drugs are the basis of crime, as well as economic crime, fraud and blackmail. The culture of silence and internal loyalty is complete. The gangs make every effort to create a parallel society with their own laws and rules. This is why the gangs need to be pushed in every direction – from the police, the Tax Agency, the Kronofogden, the social services, the municipality and the housing company. Cooperation is the word that never creates headlines, but it is something that works. Nevertheless, the government is putting in place legislation and refusing to give the police the conditions necessary for, for example, Operation Rimfrost to work properly. Today, the police stand alone against the gangs; they do not carry the rest of society's resources. This government has made sure to invest in tax cuts rather than building society. It's no harder than that. This is the ultimate proof that the Social Democrats are not serious. After six years in the Government Office, it is clear that they are not very interested. They don't want to break the gangs for real. If the government had wanted to build a safe Sweden for everyone, we would not have had vulnerable areas any more – then we would only have secure areas.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-34	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking the Liberals for the initiative for this debate, which is painfully urgent. No one can anymore claim that the shootings and explosions that put city after city in terror are individual events, but they are all part of a particularly serious escalation of violence. There are no examples from comparable countries in the EU. In Norway and Denmark, we are called what we experience in our country for a Swedish state, as a warning example. Action is needed here. A battery of measures is required, and much more is required than the government achieves. Firstly, we need to remove criminals from streets and squares, and secondly, at the same time, we need to break the recruitment process and stop children from growing into crime. What does the government intend to do? We have heard it from Damberg today, and we have heard it in the Declaration of Government of Stefan Löfven. We've been hearing that ever since 2014. Mr President, we have heard the floor unacceptably too many times. But the words, the press conferences and the unconditional investigations will not break the gangs. The government refrains from taking steps that can really break the trend. When the 34-point programme was presented a year ago, it was already inadequate. So far, only two of the points have been reached, and the other pieces are being worked out to graze them. While developments have only worsened, there is a great deal of work to be done on a programme that was inadequate even when it was presented. The government must take in reality, take in what works in countries such as Denmark and Germany and take in the police's cry for help. Over the last few weeks, we have heard from the Supreme Police Command that we want to see an investigation into criminalising gang membership, introducing search zones and increasing the possibility of wiretaps without suspicion in order to be able to spot the gang criminals in a completely different way from what is possible today. There is also a need for a targeted salary increase for police officers in external service and investigators. There are no shortcuts– we need more police at the far end of external service, where we see that it has actually gone backwards during the government's time. There is also a need for targeted and adequate funding to the Prosecutor's Office. It's not enough to bet on the police. We also need more prosecutors, not fewer, which is the risk of government policy. Why, then, is it so difficult for the Social Democrats to implement what is required? Because leadership is lacking. The January parties are divided, confused and negotiated. There are locks between the Social Democrats and the Green Party, and there are locks in the various factions. Only a new government, Mr President, can give Sweden a new leadership.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-43	Mr President, I would like to There's talk of the threats, violence and murder being a threat to the system. There have been numerous reports of this for 20 years, and what is under threat – apart from individual human lives – is democracy. This is serious, Mr President. There is no other legal order that should apply in Sweden. It should not be the case that there is another legal order in large parts of Sweden that replaces the Swedish legal order with its own laws and systems to correct conflicts or whatever it is, but it is the Swedish law that should apply. Now, as I said, it's real. The Liberals are calling for a Swedish anti-gang pact, and who is better suited for this than us who are gathered in here? The government says they want to, the opposition is very happy that they want and we on the Liberal side want to. This is for real. This is a matter of urgent intervention. We must continue our efforts in numerical terms. We must ensure that the entire judiciary is given the necessary resources. We need more cops. We've got to have correctional services that work. We must ensure that prisons are built to deal with those who need rehabilitation once they have been arrested. We need to make sure we're working wide. Then, as someone mentioned earlier, it is about prevention. We must ensure that young people in the mental ice age have a better hope. What we have presented so far is not enough. Liberals think this is good; we are pleased with the efforts we are now making on suburban lifts to ensure that schools get better support, that we work with drop-outs and so on. But we must do this in the long term, and we are talking about a great many billions for a long time. Call it a Marshall plan or a suburban lift, call it whatever you want, but it has to happen. The young people must have a chance to make sure that they come out of a crime that will otherwise eat them up or, at worst, physically kill them and people around them. Here we have a series of proposals for mandatory action and for early and clear action. As I said, the first crime must be the last crime. I also get into what is so important to remember: these people are not by definition sadists; they are by definition people who don't give a shit – excuse the language, Mr President – and who are very unengaged and unempathetic. They're looking for money. We need to ensure that we make a wide contribution to all opportunities to make a living through subsidy fraud, by making use of wage guarantees and by milking our public systems and our benefit systems through various means. That is how we can strike at this. There should be no confidentiality rule between them. If you don't work, you can't ride around in a big car with expensive gold chains if you can't show where the money comes from, of course. We must meet broadly, Mr President. Sweden needs a Swedish anti-gang pact, and that's what it needs now.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-51	Mr President, I would like to Gang crime is a poison in our society. Young armed men with a lot of violent capital spread insecurity and terror. Against these, society must act by all means. Criminals and their weapons are to be removed from the streets. The environmental party in the government has made historical investments in the police. We have also strengthened the judiciary. We have helped to tighten the penalties for over 50 crimes. This has given the police the opportunity to arrest more people. But just tightening the penalties is not enough. The police themselves highlight the importance of others – prevention – interventions. It is about children who receive support to pass school, parents who receive help in parenting and a social service that provides early intervention to young people in need of it. This has not received as much attention. This means that there are always more young people to recruit into the gangs. We in the Green Party want to do more to reduce gangs' opportunities to recruit young people. Social workers should move out to catch young people at risk. Children who are in a criminal environment and who suffer ill-treatment should be taken care of. We also need to tighten the penalties for those who recruit young people into crime. No child is born criminally. Behind every child who commits gang crime is an older criminal who lured the kid in. This cynical abuse of children must be stopped. Mr President, I would like to For the Green Party, it is essential that we attack gang crime on all fronts. It is not good enough just to call for harsher penalties, but we must be able to keep several thoughts in our heads at the same time. To break the gangs, the police need the right tools. Some laws need to be tightened up, but above all we need to reduce the risk of young people being recruited into gangs.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-57	Mr President, I would like to First of all: When you listen to this debate you can get the impression that the political parties in the Swedish Parliament have very different views. The question is whether the Swedish parties in the Riksdag have been more united on these issues than they are right now. Just listen to the debate on the 34-point programme! First one gets the impression that the government's 34-point programme contains nothing. Then the parties compete to say that their proposals are in the 34-point programme and that the government has actually taken their proposals. This says something about there being a broad consensus on the direction of the biggest programme against gang crime that ever existed in Sweden. This was deliberate. The government also chose to pick up suggestions that other parties had put forward in the gang talks. We perceived that there was a point in getting a broad program with a broader unity about the way forward. However, we are not finished with the punitive measures. We have a long series of penalties that are on the table and are being investigated. Some say: Why isn't the entire 34-point program implemented? Yes, because if we had only taken old proposals, these would have been implemented. But if you want new penalties and give the police new tools, you have to investigate them. There must be proposals which will then be put to the vote in the Swedish Parliament. Precisely because we want new proposals, it takes some time, but it is a powerful change in both the police's tools and the penalties that we can impose on gang criminals in Sweden and that will become a reality. This will not be enough. We also need to work preventively. I am reacting to the Left Party saying that we are shoving legislation. We need to tighten up the penalties. It gives the police new tools. We must provide new tools, such as secret coercive measures, to get to the gangs. But we also need to work preventively. During the last parliamentary term, we and the Left Party had good cooperation. The result is a hundred thousand more employees in the public sector. We are trying to steer resources towards the most vulnerable areas. Unfortunately, we do not have the same consensus in this House on long-term efforts in the field of prevention. We must succeed in this if we want to reduce gang crime in Sweden in the long term and give young people a better future.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-62	Madam President, I would like When Mikael Damberg took office as Minister of the Interior, he stated in an interview that his main mission was to ensure that the police were given the resources and powers they needed. I think this is a legitimate and reasonable ambition in the difficult situation in which Sweden finds itself. The police are doing an important job and need all the support they can get. But what has happened? We Moderates have put forward three concrete model-breaking proposals: criminalising participation in gangs, introducing a system of search zones to remove weapons and explosives and a simpler procedure for the use of secret coercive measures against gang criminals before committing crimes. I can now see that both the Head of the National Police and the Deputy Chief have expressed a positive opinion on all three proposals, and they have expressed the desire to move forward with legislation. I understand that the government is saying no to these proposals. Why does the government make promises that it does not keep?
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-65	Madam President, I would like The most important thing is to expand the police with more locally present police officers who can increase security and fight crime around Sweden. Many said it was impossible to expand the police force with 10,000 more employees. We are now ahead of the plan. We have come halfway, but in the coming years there will be a huge increase in the number of police officers. In the beginning it was about more civilian employees. So far, therefore, we are ahead of the growth of the police. This is about plus 16% in local police areas with vulnerable areas in order to increase security and be in place where most violent crimes are committed. As far as secret coercive measures are concerned, we have already introduced HDA. We have made it easier to obtain secret coercive measures and, not least, we will proceed with the prosecutor's great request to make it easier to use secret coercive measures. Can the Moderates tell me what the police lack in order to be able to do a search today, for example, on weapons and drugs?
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-68	Madam President, I would like Let's do it again. Mikael Damberg made promises that the police would get what they want. However, when the police then ask for new legislation in place, the Minister of the Interior no longer seems to know his promise. I find that very strange. It is a question of search zones, a simpler procedure of secret coercive measures before committing crimes – something quite different from what has just been mentioned – and criminalising gang participation. What's it gonna be? Are you gonna give the police what it wants or not?
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-70	Madam President, I would like I can confirm to the Moderates that we have a very good dialogue with the Police Authority about the needs of the police and how we have worked to give it new powers. Some of these powers take longer than others. The Moderates now think that participation should be criminalised, which is an interesting idea. The problem, which the Moderates never mention, is that it requires a constitutional change. So it would be after the next election. Your most public demand is something that can be implemented after a constitutional amendment after the next election. It's not helping right now. It is important to focus on what has an impact in the police work.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-72	Madam President, I would like It becomes almost a bit tragic when you hear Mikael Damberg in the previous line shift. Just because something can be a bit difficult, advanced and take time, we're not going to do anything at all. But the criminalisation of participation in a criminal organisation is an effective tool to access the heads of criminal clan networks, for example. How else is the government going to get to these individuals and prosecute and imprison those who do not commit any crimes themselves but who benefit from their criminal networks? They have a great influence and are a main player for these networks to exist at all. How can you get to these individuals without a criminalization? Why does the government not start this work now? My second question relates to whether one understands the seriousness at all. Has it improved in the six years that the Red Green Government has been in power? Or does Mikael Damberg feel that serious organized crime has become worse? These questions deserve answers from the public.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-74	Madam President, I would like We have a very serious situation with regard to serious organised crime in Sweden and with the shootings and explosions being carried out. That is why we are making historically large investments in the judiciary and getting more police officers, more cameras, tighter penalties and better tools for the police. In order to get to the gang leaders, whom I understand the issue concerned, we have implemented the sharpest legislation we have ever had in Sweden in terms of secret data reading. We have done so that you can break into mobile phones and give the police the opportunity to read encrypted information. This is what they say they need to get to the gangs. Right now, we're looking at a Crown Witness system. It has been investigated many times in Sweden, but it has never been done. Then gang members could actually testify against their own gangs and have the leaders convicted. We are also moving forward with further changes in secret coercive measures so that they can be used to a greater extent, because there is a culture of silence. We tighten the penalties for crimes committed by gang criminals, and we do so with inspiration from Denmark. There, criminal environments are used to make it more severe.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-77	Madam President, I would like The problem is that those individuals who have an influence over a criminal network, who benefit from the criminal network for their own benefit and who are a main player in the fact that the networks can exist at all, are not committing any criminal activity today. The question is what crime the other individuals are going to witness that allows you to frame the main players in the networks and put them in prison. Today, there is nothing criminalized in such a way that we can frame them. There, participation in a criminal organisation is a key explanation of how we can move forward.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-78	Madam President, I would like I am sure we fully agree that it is criminal acts that should lead to prison sentences and that people should be caged in. What we have learned from Germany, Denmark and other countries that have long experience in fighting criminal gangs is that we must also go after the money. That is why, following the police advice, we have tightened up the joint work with the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Labour Service and the Swedish Migration Agency. The Swedish Democrats must also listen to the police. Preventive work is completely absent from your argument on how to fight gangs. In addition, you are making great savings in combating segregation. It's not working.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-81	Madam President, I would like I think you and I, Mikael Damberg, are in complete agreement that we need to invest in welfare. We need to rearrange the suburbs, and we need to start building security. We cannot have the economic difference that exists today between the poor and the rich. What concerns me is the government's policy to build real security. For example, housing is needed, but the government wants to introduce market rents. We need jobs, but the government wants to destroy employment security completely. A proper and good school is needed, but the government has now decided that free schools should no longer be transparent. Moreover, we have religious schools that even have extremist education. Integration aims to break down completely by means of temporary residence permits. When it comes to health care, the privatisation of health centres, which only need to exist in rich areas, continues.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-84	Madam President, I would like We certainly agree that long-term efforts are needed, both in terms of prevention and in order to increase justice. Most crimes in Sweden are committed in the poorest residential areas. If you want to create a society in which the state is present and where parallel social systems are not allowed to spread, the police and other authorities must be present. Swedish law applies equally to all areas of Sweden. That also requires strong schools. There are municipalities that have managed to create a positive trend, such as Malmö, where eight nine years in a row have had positive school results because the municipality has invested in it. There you have a very good cooperation with the police. But we also have conceptual differences. Linda Westerlund Snecker says that we dutt with legislation. But the police really need sharper penalties. We also need new tools for the police. Otherwise, you can't get to these gang criminals. We have another Sweden, and then the police must have new tools to fight crime.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-86	Madam President, I would like Yes, the government is shoving legislation. You will never get to crime seriously when you lower the tax by 13 billion. The so-called suburban lift, which is highlighted in the debate, is a good thing. But when the government worked with the Left Party, we spent 22 billion in the suburbs. 22 billion makes a difference. 3 billion do nothing, especially when the laws proposed do not make a big difference.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-87	Madam President, I would like I am absolutely convinced that we will need long-term investment in schools, social services and labour market policies to ensure that we do not pour petrol on the problems we have today in poor residential areas. This also applies after the pandemic; in connection with it there is a risk that we will have increased unemployment and social exclusion. If we do not make big investments in starting Sweden, but also direct resources to the poorest residential areas, we get bigger problems. But to say that legislation is being duped when giving the police new tools or harsher penalties is not serious.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-89	Madam President, I would like I have two questions for the Home Secretary. The first question concerns the quotation by the Minister that Johan Forssell mentioned earlier that the main task is to give the police the resources and powers they need. When the Head of State Police went out and said he was in favour of the proposal to criminalise gang membership, a proposal that the Christian Democrats have been pursuing for years, the Minister of Justice, Madam President, said that it would be a blow to the air. Now we hear Mikael Damberg say that it is possibly an interesting proposal. What's the government gonna do, and when are you gonna start listening to the police leadership? The second question is: When should you start listening to the prosecutors? According to the budget demand from the Prosecutor's Office, 100 prosecutors will have to be dismissed. Yesterday, a number of prosecutors in Aftonbladet wrote: The other day, budget efforts from the January parties were presented – not a penny to the prosecutors. But if you are to fight gang crime, you also need to invest in the prosecutors.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-92	Madam President, I would like My job is to make sure that the police are growing throughout the country, so that we have more security. As I stated earlier, we have made historic efforts, and they continue in the forthcoming budget for the police to continue to grow. We are also ahead of planes, which is very exciting. Now we see that the search pressure for police training is increasing very much and that we fill more places, even though the intake for police training has stood still. We also see that the number leaving the police is decreasing and that the number returning to the police is high. Right now, the growth in the police is taking place in a good way. The new tools are very numerous. If you look at what the police have asked of the policy in any sense, you can see that we have checked out proposals on the basis of proposals to give the police new tools. That is what the 34-point programme is about. We took in the views of both the prosecutors and the police on what would be the most important tools. That is what we were listening to, and so we wrote the 34-point program. We give priority to what the police and prosecutors have given the highest priority.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-94	Madam President, I would like I was there during those talks. Not all proposals from the police and prosecutors for action were included. It regretted the Christian Democrats. This is an important reason why we cannot do this. We have to do whatever it takes. Then the prosecutors must also be given the resources they need. I repeat the question to Mikael Damberg: Where is the money for the Prosecutor's Office? It is important to reach over 1,000 prosecutors. The prosecutors have indicated the number 1 050. However, with the proposal now before us, 100 prosecutors are at risk of being dismissed.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-96	Madam President, I would like Prosecutors are an important category in the whole chain of justice. Unless the prosecutors can do a good job, it doesn't matter how many police officers we have on the streets, and then it becomes harder to fill the prisons with convicted criminals. The prosecutors are doing a big job all over Sweden. We will continue to follow the finances that the prosecutors need and see how we can have quality in recruitment and in the development of the prosecution profession. We will also look at the prosecutors' work situation and not least change some of the conditions in the courts. We will ensure that some of what relieves the prosecutors can be done in the future.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-97	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that Mikael Damberg as Minister of the Interior wants to gather people. We in the Liberals believe that a Swedish anti-gang pact is needed. The 34-point programme was more an internal Rules of Procedure. It turns out that in large parts it does not last. We are now moving on to changing the conditions for penalty rebates for young people engaged in very serious crime. That is absolutely necessary. We need to gather. This afternoon the so-called Safety Committee will meet, but it is very unclear what it will come up with. We in the Liberals want action now. We must ensure that the judicial system, the so-called chain, remains together. This applies to all authorities. We have had a tough debate, a tough discussion and a tough negotiation in the budgetary situation, but further things will be presented. Can the Home Secretary come back?
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-100	Madam President, I would like I fully share the view that action is needed here and now. It is not least a question of removing the penalty rebate for legal persons who commit serious criminal activities. It is an important change that I believe we agree on. The legislation is now being consulted, which is a good thing. But much more will be needed – not only here and now, but also long-term perspectives. This is what the Security Committee aims at: All parliamentary parties should be able to sit for a long time and look at the criminal justice systems but also how to increase security in society at large. I think it is important not to be caught here and now, but also to work long-term and build a common base for research-based policy development in this area. It's two different perspectives. We are talking about the whole legal chain, and our parties agree on budgetary cooperation where we are now strengthening certain parts of the legal chain extra much because there is need. But this time, in this budget, it is very much about the pandemic and about restarting Sweden. I believe that these are also very important priorities. Otherwise we'll have bigger problems with crime.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-103	Madam President, I would like Of course, long-term investments in the police are extremely important. It is also extremely important that we start the cement mixer and really expand the prison service, including detention centres, so that people can be placed. Otherwise, the police have to run and hunt the same people all the time. People stand in the line of soning and commit new crimes waiting to go to prison. We can't have that. For example, with a Swedish anti-gang pact you could look much more at how to resolve the conflicts in here. Now it's more like a therapist. We must gather together and listen to what the Moderates or Christian Democrats want. We must have action here and now.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-105	Madam President, I would like I believe that we can all contribute by having a tone in the debate that works and brings us closer together. I understand that the parties listen to each other. You can see that the parties have a little different emphasis. But we are largely in the same direction right now in almost all of Sweden's parliament. It is about expanding the police and the law enforcement authorities, ensuring that the police and prosecutors are given new tools and tightening penalties so that the gang criminals go further. We can take inspiration from other countries such as Denmark and Germany who have had these problems longer. But it is also important to work with preventive work.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-107	Madam President, I would like Our legal policy today is built for a Sweden that no longer exists. Now we see a very serious gang crime with shootings, blasts, kidnappings and even roadblocks. It is victims of crime who get hurt and citizens who are very worried. But just as I've said before, it doesn't have to be like this. Denmark shows us that the problems can be dealt with if you really decide to do so. The number of people in gang-criminal settings in Denmark has decreased sharply over the last ten years. In Sweden, the number has exploded. In Stockholm alone, there are today more people in the gang-criminal environments than there are in the whole of Denmark. After the last sentences in Denmark, I think it will take some time before Swedish gang criminals go over Sundet. Danish justice policy is far more powerful than the Swedish one. It's not a lot of half-measures, it's different pattern-breaking proposals. It's a double sentence for gang criminals, search zones and anonymous witnesses. These are things that we moderated in several cases have pointed out already in 2017. If the government thinks it will be a while before those things can become reality, then one explanation is that the government did not listen to us because we proposed those things three years ago. What is also interesting is that the three gang packages that have been implemented in Denmark have been implemented together by the bourgeois parties with the Social Democrats. I hope that insight will also reach Swedish Social Democrats one day. The great danger in Sweden right now is that people are losing hope and that they believe that it cannot be changed and that the development cannot turn around. I would like to say to you: it does not have to be so. It is not a natural law that it should be that way. It is possible to be tough against the gang criminals and make Sweden safe and secure. But it requires a completely different power of action from the one we see today.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-114	Madam President, I would like My question is about what Johan Forssell did not talk about in this particular speech. It is the longer-term work and how to deal with the recruitment of gangs and prevention. I feel that the Moderates sometimes talk about preventive work. But when it comes to the more stringent priorities economically, it has not always been the same. I remember when you got the M-KD budget. Then the money for the long measures to combat segregation was scrapped. Let's add new money to the suburbs. Will they also be voted against by the Moderates, or will there be support for them?
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-117	Madam President, I would like We Moderates love prevention. But perhaps we have a slightly different view of what is preventive. We do not believe much in the temporary projects, but more in the long lines. It is about good school, knowledge of the Swedish language and a labour market that is inclusive. As far as that particular money is concerned, in our budget we chose to move large parts of it to the Swedish sports movement. We believe that it has great opportunities to raise people into Swedish society and ensure that they can stand on their own feet. We will continue to make such priorities.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-119	Madam President, I would like I hadn't heard that explanation before. I have no problem making big investments in the sports movement. We're doing it, too. But in these residential areas we need a school that is up to date, that we have a social service that is able to bear the costs of this and that we work with language development. It's not the least part of the suburban effort we're doing right now. Since the Moderates said they were ready to back up the 34-point programme, I hope that those elements can also be backed up in the budget. The municipalities that have these problems need long-term support and no new project money.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-121	Madam President, I would like I share the view that there has been too much of project money. That is precisely why I say that we Moderates chose to make a different priority in the budget that we got through, for example to move large parts to the Swedish sports movement. It is very welcome if the government has also adopted this view late in the day. I'm sure we'll be able to agree on that. I just want to be clear on one thing. A very preventive measure right now is to put in prison the gang criminals, the leaders who recruit new people for their vile activities outside the country's schools. It's crime prevention.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-123	Madam President, I would like I very much appreciate the will of the Moderates to think new and be inspired by the outside world. I also attended the Danish former Minister of Justice here last week. We talked about the broad consensus that prevailed for the Danish Pact to fight the gangs. From the Liberals' side, we want to see a Swedish anti-gang pact. In order for us to reach it, it takes breadth. How broad does Johan Forssell think such a thing can be?
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-125	Madam President, I would like I'll be perfectly honest and say that I still don't know exactly what the Liberals mean by their anti-gang pact. Different types of instruments can be found to tackle crime. I think that perhaps it is not really a lack of various activities or political groupings that is the problem right now. It is that it happens too little concretely on the legislative side. We Moderates are constructive. We are prepared to sit down and discuss. But it must not just be a question of criminality. Things had to happen, too.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-128	Madam President, I would like Absolutely. Of course something's going to happen. Those of us who really listened to Deputy Chief of Police Mats Löfving know that he brought up half the programme to talk about measures in schools, the labour market and integration. That's what he was talking about and how important it was to have a municipal pact. Such a pact is also needed at Swedish level. It is important that we are long-term and able to do so. That is why it is so important that there is a breadth in such a pact. In any case, it is the intention of the Liberals to ensure that the Moderates participate in it. Then we can discuss individual penalty rates here and there. It's really important.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-130	Madam President, I would like Then I understand more what is meant. The answer is that we are prepared to sit and talk, provided that something can happen. Over the past year there has been a lot of talk, but the results have not been available. We both shared the same experience during last year's gang negotiations. We have a work in the working group that will sit and work until 2024 and discuss various challenges. Anyone can see the challenges by going out on the street or opening a newspaper. But if there is concrete policy, we are of course involved.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-132	Madam President, I would like Ulf Kristersson said the other day that taking care of children living in criminal families sends a crystal clear signal. The law of special provisions on the care of young people is a law of protection designed to protect children from harm. Even today, it is possible to take care of children who are in a criminal environment, but always on the basis of what is best for those children. Therefore, I wonder: Is it the best interests of the children that are crucial for the Moderates when children are being cared for, or is it sending a crystal clear signal to the families?
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-135	Madam President, I would like Children's best interests are when their parents take responsibility for them and do not commit crimes or force their children into a criminal path. That is the basic problem today. We have thousands of children around Sweden who live in family environments that are deeply harmful to them. We have a situation that does not work at all with LVU placements in homes that simply do not work. We believe that more care is a boring but unfortunately necessary measure to deal with that problem.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-138	Madam President, I would like The Moderates also suggested that the police and prosecutors should be able to decide to separate children from their parents. Of course, it is extremely important that children do not grow up in criminal settings. However, this assessment is something social services are trained to do. My question to Johan Forssell is: Why do you want to give the police more work in this strained situation? Would it not be better to allocate resources to social services, which have trained and experienced staff for this very purpose?
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-140	Madam President, I would like People in social services are doing a fantastic job in Sweden today. But my picture, after having talked to quite a few of them, is that today they are facing a reality that they are not trained for. It is also the case that the regulatory framework we have is based on the fact that it is ultimately a court that takes the decisions. We don't want to change that. What we are saying is that we are creating a path to, through prosecutors, to remedy the problem we see: that so many children, despite the regulations we have today, are suffering. They get hurt because they have parents who can't take care of them. We have to deal with that.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-142	Madam President, I would like The government is not going to do anything for which the opposition is not yet able to create a majority. What kind of leadership is that? Madam President, I would like Persons who have knowledge and influence of organised violent capital and who have personal gain from it must be able to be prosecuted and imprisoned for a long time. That's how we destroy the pyramid from above and knock out the main players in criminal clan networks, for example. That is why a new criminalisation of participation in criminal organisations is needed. Of course, for all this work to work, it also requires that we have a Crown Witness system and the opportunity to testify anonymously against criminal networks on the ground. A radical deportation policy is also needed. But the government does not want to, because according to Damberg here today it is complicated, and it takes a long time. Therefore, you choose not to press the start button. I do not think that this is a worthy leadership of this political debate. Unfortunately, we also see the result of this very leadership. We see how things have developed during the time that the Red-Green Government has been in power. Every year it gets worse. Each year, the boundaries of how violence takes place and affects innocent people are pushed forward. Madam President, I would like Sweden needs a new leadership based on a new government. The Swedish democrats are prepared to take responsibility, not only for this, but also precisely for the development of criminal policy in our country so that once and for all we do what is necessary in time before it is too late.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-147	Madam President, I would like One of the many problems that surround gang crime is that gang criminals, through their violent capital, can threaten witnesses and cause them to refrain from witnessing and thus escape justice. In the gang talks that we held last year at this time, and which have been mentioned several times here today, there were a couple of things that me and the Center Party were pushing particularly hard. One question was to strengthen witness protection. This concerns, on the one hand, the protection of persons and, on the other hand, the inclusion of more persons in a witness protection programme and, on the other hand, the strengthening of penalties for the abuse of a legal act, that is to say, the crime committed when a person threatens a witness. Unfortunately, the talks were interrupted before we had specified what penalty we think is right. However, this issue is being prepared, and the government is happy to take it as an explicit statement that an appropriate level would be prison for at least two years. That limit brings with it a lot of important instruments for police and prosecutors. Compulsory arrest means that a person who threatens a witness leaves the street for at least two years. Today, we in the Center Party are launching a further development of this idea: that the penalty for abuse of justice should be exempted from the so-called principle of asperation so that the full penalty value is imposed regardless of other crimes. It should never pay to risk trying to threaten a witness to silence. It should always give two years of additional sentence. Another important part is to try to ensure the long-term sustainability of our work, to find ways to agree on the nature and extent of the problems and to then be able to evaluate solutions that we can safely adopt are highly effective. We will find out who provides the greatest security benefits at the lowest possible cost and other advantages and disadvantages. Our proposal was for a security preparation to be set up, and it is now in full swing. Many of us who are debating here today will be attending the Security Committee meeting in just over an hour's time. I hope that this preparation will be the infrastructure for this very urgent need.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-154	Madam President, I would like It sounds like an interesting proposal that the Center Party is launching in this House. Of course, the Christian Democrats are looking at this, and we could certainly find agreements in Parliament if you do not get a response from the government parties for this. However, precisely because the Centre Party is part of the budget base, I would like to ask a question about the targeted police salary effort that the government removed from the budget that the Centre Party supports. I would like to hear Johan Hedin's motives for why it was important to remove this targeted police salary effort.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-156	Madam President, I would like It is, of course, possible to find details in a total budget that you would have liked to have seen differently. It is a whole that should be assessed as a whole, and we are making strong investments in the police. One of the most important elements of the January agreement is precisely the investment in 10 000 more police workers, where we also agree on the whole political field. Maybe that's not enough. We also need to increase quality, and that is why we want to increase the academic element of police training so that all police officers are even more capable of carrying out their important work.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-158	Madam President, I would like Then I understand that the Center was perhaps not so happy with that particular part of the budget. But it is, in fact, an important part of the M-KD budget which went through in this House and which went straight to an increase in wages, particularly for police officers in external service. According to the Police Association's newspaper, it actually goes backwards and downwards when it comes to them. There are fewer police officers on the outside. It was about getting a targeted pay bet just to streets and squares, where we need more cops. I therefore regret the disappearance of this initiative, and I hope that the Centre Party can get this through and that we can find more constructive proposals.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-160	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Andreas Carlson for his constructive spirit and for supporting the proposal that we are launching here and now, which deals with the abuse of justice. I can honestly say that I miss the time when we worked closely together in the alliance parties. It was a fruitful collaboration. We did not agree on everything, but where we agreed, we often found powerful solutions and got things done. I wish we could come back to that time, but different positions from different parties have led us in different directions.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-162	Madam President, I would like Today there is a shared location. There are those who no longer shrink from drawing parallels between culture or ethnicity and crime. The racist context is a fact among very many parties when solutions such as reducing immigration, building prisons abroad and having riot police in the suburbs are presented as solutions. Actually, it's bizarre. Then there are others who see the complexity of crime. They see that crime is growing out of poverty, class and vulnerability and that crime must therefore be combated in several ways. There are no simple solutions. When a Social Democratic government adapts to parties that have no problem claiming that crime is due to increased immigration, it is a Social Democratic government that has problems – big problems. Then we need courageous politicians who dare to invest in the long term in building a Sweden that can become something much, much better. It is about investing in vulnerable areas and removing segregation and vulnerability. We need to equip the suburbs and not sell out their centres to venture capital companies. We need to build apartments with reasonable rents that ordinary people can afford to live in. We need to ensure that the unemployed get a chance to get training and jobs. Children should receive support and a chance for a good future. Twelve-year-olds are playing football, not running gang errands. That is why we must build a strong prosperity. Society owes us that. Politics must be something other than just having power. You have to want to change for the better. The government doesn't want that.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-169	Madam President, I would like I said in my first speech that it took two things: firstly, to remove criminals from streets and squares, and, at the same time, to break the new recruitment and stop children from being attracted and growing into crime. For us to be able to break new recruitment, many different measures need to be taken side by side and also sustainable. An important part of this is the abolition of youth discounts, which invite gang criminals to use children and young people to commit serious crimes. More young criminals need to be sentenced to closed juvenile care. The Christian Democrats have proposed that the Prison Service should take greater responsibility in that part. We launched a social effort billions last year. Once the police task force has done its job, it must be followed by a social task force. We then launched investments in social services, and we also said that there should be a national crisis social hotline with skills that can come and relieve municipalities that have particularly vulnerable areas with major problems, so that skills can also be built up locally. We have presented initiatives at the State Departmental Board – it is well obvious to everyone, I think, that more needs to be done there – but also investments in the Prison Service to increase the competence in how to work with gang criminals and recidivist offenders, and also to strengthen defector activities. It requires many different parts that the Christian Democrats have proposed, but one important part is to guard the gang criminals on a point-by-point basis. They should know that they have their eyes on them both before, during and after they have committed crimes. We must also be able to remove all the status symbols that are so important to them in recruiting young people. These are some of the Christian Democrats' proposals to break the new recruitment.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-175	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats want to use money from Swedish aid to build prisons in other countries where foreign citizens convicted in Sweden can be sent to serve their sentences. According to the Christian Democrats, the money should go specifically to countries that do not respect human rights.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-177	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question. I guess I'll just have to explain to you that it's made up of two parts. The first part is an increase in funding for the Prison Service to rent or buy places abroad of SEK 400 million. This is where, first and foremost, those who are currently in Swedish prisons should be able to sit, abroad or in third countries. We can also note, and that is part two of the proposal, that the situation in prisons around the world is, to say the least, sad. Building legal institutions is an important part of which aid can be used. We are already doing this in Kenya, for example.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-179	Madam President, I would like Ebba Busch himself says that prisons will not be of sufficient Swedish standard. On the question of whether the sentenced will receive a fair treatment in these prisons, she answers: That should have been the thought of the sentenced person before it came to Sweden and committed serious crimes. Does it reflect the Christian Democrats' view of the rule of law for convicted criminals? How can the Christian Democrats be sure that the prisoners in these prisons will receive fair and humane treatment?
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-181	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to say that all criminals should think about this before they commit criminal activity. You can go to jail. Of those who fill our places today in the prison service, 30 per cent do not even have Swedish citizenship. To be able to expel more is also the Government's ambition. More people should be able to serve their sentences in the home countries. Of course, these prisons must meet the human rights requirements to be imposed. But we also know that the Swedish prison service is very good. You can live up to the demands of human rights without reaching the Swedish level – that's my answer.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-183	Madam President, I would like It is as it usually is when we debate this: it is large and small. On behalf of the Liberals, I would like to comment on some of the criminal law proposals that are currently under way. It is well relevant to discuss this, after all, in this context. Criminalize the gangs, we can do it if it has any effect, and it will take time. For our part, we are happy to investigate this. We're sitting here looking actively at how we're going to criminalize IS operations-- you know, people who are engaged in cutting people's heads off and putting it up on a pole. Even that kind of gang, we can't criminalize today. Then you can think about how this is going to go. But we'll investigate and we'll be happy to look at it. Of course, people should do something else out of their free time. There are a lot of good gangs in Adult School, sports clubs or whatever you want to spend your time on. Visiting zones or extended search possibilities are either. You have to listen to the police. Some are positive, others are more negative and say that it can create conflicts. We can listen to those in Malmö who have worked with Stop shooting, which is not least linked to drop-off activities and very important. We can also look at this in a Swedish anti-gang pact, so to speak. Double the penalties for some gangs, say some. Then you have to define those gangs. As for me and the Liberals, we'd be happy to triple some penalties. Swedish criminal law today, Madam President, is of course completely irrelevant to all people who choose the crime as a lifestyle. It's totally relevant to everyone who's now in here listening, I hope. We refrain from various crimes found in the penal code. It's a good balance. But these people don't care. We need to take a completely different view of repeated crime. We need to take a completely different view of mass and serial crimes in order to get to the serious criminals and lock them up longer. Then I would like to say a few words about the early and clear efforts. Here we need a round-up. The government should really come up with a new Social Services Act. It is written in the 1970s and applied in the 1980s. We have another Sweden today and must have earlier and clearer efforts to reduce crime.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-189	Madam President, I would like This is the way I appreciate the Liberals in criminal policy. There is flexibility and an opportunity to reconsider one's own positions. I think that's very good. Now we are hearing from Johan Pehrson in the speaker's chair that the criminalisation of participation in a criminal organisation is a possible way forward. After all, we have investigations on the part of the government when it comes to the crimes of participation in terrorist organisations and the like. Can Johan Pehrson here today promise that we in the committee, in the majority together with Mr M and Mr KD, will give an additional mandate to the government to investigate this particular part?
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-191	Madam President, I would like As you heard, I was also pleasantly surprised that the Home Secretary here opened the door a little for this. Of course we can investigate it, it's very important, but we can't have too much hope. We are liberals, and we look at the individual. Even if we see structures, if we are to combat these crimes, we must go on the individuals and ensure that they are knocked out and locked up for a long time, no matter what crime we practice. If you're trying to kill people in a party and a minute you're supposed to be locked up for life, it can't be very hard to understand.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-192	Madam President, I would like That is precisely what is so important: if we are to move forward, we must start somewhere. If we never start anywhere, we'll never get forward. Okay, I have respect for the fact that this is a complicated legislative process and that it may take time, but if the Swedish Democrats had had to decide, we would have started it back in 2012. It is promising that the Liberals are so flexible and open. I hope that we in committee can take a joint initiative to give an additional mission to the government's investigation into the crime of participation in terrorist organisations, precisely to get to the main figures in, for example, these clan structures that we have debated so often.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-195	Madam President, I would like There is no other opinion from the liberal side than that people who systematically choose the crime as a lifestyle, step over corpses, create corpses and only engage in this, of course, should be locked up for a very long time. Double punishment is pointless; triple punishment is better. These people need to be removed. They're to be encapsulated. Then they won't commit crimes. This is not in contrast to active prevention, pinching the silk mitten for the first time a child commits a crime.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-197	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Pehrson, for the initiative for this debate and for constructive cooperation in the Parliamentary Committee on Justice! Liberals are part of the basis that cooperates with the government on the budget. I did not really get an answer from the Minister for Home Affairs on whether the budget to be presented on Monday brings more money to the prosecutors. I would therefore like to hear whether Johan Pehrson can reveal something in this House and give a reassuring message to anyone who wants the fight against gang crime to be sharpened further.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-199	Madam President, I would like Budgetary cooperation means that it should also be presented. It's kind of like the Christmas calendar. You have to take one at a time of the 24 hatches, and at the end there is a big candy in the hatch 24. I do not want to deviate from allowing Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg to stand up for the entire budget that will be presented. We've had tough negotiations. I'm neither proud nor satisfied. But I note that we are taking steps forward that will make a great deal of use to the Swedish judicial system.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-201	Madam President, I would like I don't really know how to interpret that. But I'll have to interpret it positively and hope for a big gap on the 24th, with substantial reinforcement for the Prosecution Authority. The sad thing is that it would have been necessary earlier. In fact, last time it was the M-KD budget that stopped a wave of redundancies in the agency. In order for the Prosecutor's Office to be able to expand, you need conditions that apply for a longer period of time. I hope the Liberals will agree with that.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-202	Madam President, I would like The hatches are big. The need is great. During this term of office, the Liberals have been involved in ensuring that we have had increases of perhaps 7.8 hopefully up to 9 billion for the entire Swedish judiciary, what is called Category 4. It is central to building these institutions. It is not in that way that no institutions have developed during this term of office. But if someone were to produce a bag of billions, I could easily distribute them to the Swedish judicial system.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-204	Madam President, I would like The best effort is to stop the development before someone becomes a criminal, before someone becomes a victim. Society has tools to do that. Unfortunately, we don't use all of them. But there are examples to learn from. While the number of shootings is increasing in parts of Sweden, they have declined in Malmö. The other week I had a meeting with Stefan Sintéus, chief police officer in Malmö, and heard about efforts that have made a difference. Stop the shooting model, which has caused the criminals to lift their finger from the trigger, has given effect. The model is based on cooperation between police, social services and outpatient care. Criminals get a clear choice: stop shooting, or get the police's total focus! But they are also offered alternatives: help to break the criminal life. This is something that several of them have received and have left the crime scene. The Commissioner also mentioned young people who have been lifted out of a criminal spiral, who have received support to get out of crime before it has escalated. But here he made it clear that more help from society is needed to ensure that children do not even get close to the criminal environment. Stefan Sintéus called for early interventions such as fewer school failures, early-age support, efforts for parents to set limits and cooperation with landlords, civil society and those living in vulnerable areas. It is something that can make a real difference, which can make sure that when a criminal is arrested there is no one who can take his place. In order to attack gang crime on all fronts, we need to be able to keep several thoughts in our heads at the same time.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-208	Madam President, I would like I was going to ask the same question that I put to the Minister for Home Affairs, linked to the three concrete model-breaking proposals that we in the Moderates have put forward. It is about introducing search zones, criminalising participation in criminal gangs and enabling the use of secret coercive measures against gang members before committing crimes. We know that the police department welcomes and wants to see such legislation. What is the position of the Green Party on the three proposals?
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-210	Madam President, I would like It is important to point out that there are different views within the police on the proposals you have put forward, Johan Forssell. The most important thing for us in the Green Party is to look at what has an effect. It is the efforts that have an effect on crime that we are going to use. These are the laws we need to tighten up. We must always start from research and proven experience.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-212	Madam President, I would like I thank you for that perhaps some cryptic answer. There may well be a difference of opinion in this regard among our 20,000 police officers. But now it is the chief police officer and deputy chief police officer who have welcomed this and who have said that they want that legislation. As a moderate, I conclude that we should listen to it if we are serious about fighting gang crime. Does the Green Party mean that the chief of police and the deputy chief of police are not really worth listening to in these matters?
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-215	Madam President, I would like Police officers with whom I have spoken have pointed out that it is not the search zones that are needed right now, but that what may need to be reviewed is the possibility of searching the premises. Introduce search zones for not only benefits. It is known that it can have an initial sedative effect. But then there is a great risk that if people in these areas are repeatedly stopped, without suspicion of crime, where they move every day, go to work and live and live.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-217	Madam President, I would like We have had an intense debate in the media and other things about precisely the criminal clan networks, which are an example of serious crime in our society. The proposal to criminalise participation in a criminal organisation has received broader support in the Swedish parliament. The opposition is with the government parties.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-219	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. The Green Party believes that we should use the methods for which there is support. This means that we need to look at and investigate which laws need to be tightened up. One cannot just take proposals that feel necessary for the day, as the Swedish Democrats do. We need to look at what there is research on and at what there is proven experience of. Then we will apply it.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-221	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have been inspired by the United States but also other European countries where, for example, the USA's RICO laws have been successfully used to break down mafia structures. Now we see that mafia structures are being established in Sweden, as a result of the irresponsible immigration policy for which the Green Party is a main player. The question remains: Given the proven experience and knowledge of the world in terms of participation in crime and criminal organisations, why is there resistance in the Green Party? And why does one continue to advocate a policy that makes everything worse on all fronts?
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-223	Madam President, I would like It should be borne in mind that it is illegal to contribute to crime, to try to commit crime, to prepare crime and to urge others to commit crime. Virtually all actions contributing to the activities of criminal gangs are already criminalised. What we need are measures that have an effect. It's not placard politics, Adam Marttinen. Above all, it is not proposals that you make it sound that could be implemented in a quick turn when we know that a constitutional change is needed.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-225	Madam President, I would like It is positive that Johanna Öfverbeck gives us a summary of the comments that have come from Stefan Sintéus in Malmö. I have met him on several occasions, and Stop shooting is definitely an important work that would need to be expanded. But it is also important to listen to the police's top management and the Police Authority when it calls for action. I simply wonder, also in view of previous interventions, whether Johanna Öfverbeck thinks that the chief police officer and deputy chief police officer are wrong?
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-227	Madam President, I would like I and Andreas Carlson agree that Stop shooting has had an effect and that it should of course be tested in other places in Sweden. For example, you should see if you can transfer the experiences you have from Malmö to other places. I have also been told by the police that this is possible today. There is infrastructure in a lot of places, where you could scale up the corresponding Stop shooting bet.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-228	Madam President, I would like I have the opportunity to repeat my second question, which I did not really have time to ask before the 30 seconds had passed. Does Johanna Öfverbeck think that the chief of police and the deputy chief of police, who both represent the Police Authority, are wrong to say that it would be good to investigate criminalising gang membership and that it would be good to have search zones and additional flexible listening possibilities to be able to spot and crack the gangs? Are they wrong?
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-230	Madam President, I would like Regardless of what proposals are being put forward in the debate and no matter who brings them forward, one must always look at whether there are research evidence to introduce what is being proposed: is this something proposed because someone has got an idea but has not looked at what it is because it looks like it has had an effect? Before we introduce anything, tighten a law, change a law, or do anything else that involves major interference in people's everyday lives, we need to go through it carefully and see what its effects are.
i-ad1eaad14aa47e83-231	Madam President, I would like Thank you, the parliamentary parties, for an important debate! These are no questions that can be solved with a quick fix. It will require commitment, determination and decisive action in the future. You have heard me say that we are now delivering the biggest package against gang crime ever in Sweden, but I will not be content with that. There will be further efforts, both linked to the budget presentations that have been and in the form of new initiatives. It will not be enough for us to hire perhaps 1 200 new police officers this year, for additional cameras to be set up, for us to tighten up penalties, for us to change rules on search and reduction of penalties for young adults or for us to impose a new penalty on young people. Preventive work is needed, and above all we need to take joint action. Authorities and municipalities will attack the gangs from all sides. The experience from other countries is that it produces results. It is possible to turn around – not least Malmö has shown. Let us learn from what is happening in Malmö. Let's spread it all over the country, and let's put a lot of pressure together on the gangs.
