i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-34	Madam President, I would like Angelica Lundberg has asked me what I intend to do to slow down the development of over-indebtedness, how I will act to prevent young people from developing unhealthy economic habits and when the government intends to set up an inquiry into a central debt register and when it will be completed. Reports from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority show that consumption loans are increasing and that a not insignificant proportion of these loans go to debt collection. The Swedish Enforcement Authority has also noted an increase in unpaid consumption loans. The issue is important and concerns several different policy areas. The government has implemented a series of measures to counter over-indebtedness and strengthen consumer protection in the consumer loan market. The Government has, among other things, put forward proposals that have led to a new debt restructuring act that has made it easier to apply for debt restructuring and a new regulation on an interest and cost ceiling for so-called high-cost credits. Following the Government's proposal, provisions have also been introduced this year aimed at ensuring that the consumer makes an active choice to pay by credit or direct payment in the event of e-commerce. In addition, in recent years we have seen an improved amortisation culture as a result of the amortisation requirements that have been introduced. During the spring, the government also commissioned the Swedish Consumer Agency to analyse the situation in the market for consumer credit and risks of over-indebtedness. In its consumer protection report for 2020, the F inansinspektionen has proposed that the government take an inquiry to enable creditors to get an overall picture of all consumer liabilities. The case is being prepared in the Government Office. The government's consumer policy is aimed at the functioning of consumer markets and at environmental, social and economic sustainability of consumption. The government will continue its work on consumer protection and over-indebtedness issues accordingly.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-38	Madam President, I would like A record number of people apply for help with debt management. In the first half of 2020, more than 15 000 people applied for debt restructuring, which is an increase of over 40% compared to the same period last year. The growth was particularly high among young people aged 18 to 34. In that group, there is a doubling of the number of applicants for debt restructuring. Over-indebtedness is a problem both for the individual and for society, and the ongoing Corona crisis has led to a sharp increase in the risk of unhealthy indebtedness. As the Government mentions, there is a large increase in consumer loans. Consumption loans have a major impact on household indebtedness and finances. According to Finansinspektionen's report on consumption loans, these loans represent one fifth of households' total debts, but at the same time they account for more than half of households' loan payments in the form of interest and credit. The Government also mentions that the share of loans leading to debt collection requirements is high, and that is true. Approximately one in five borrowers has received a payment reminder, and 41⁄2 percent of all new borrowers receive a debt collection claim already during the first months of the loan. That is an indication, I think, of a weak repayment capacity and that the creditworthiness test has not been satisfactory. Among persons under the age of 25, this figure is 8%. The majority of these loans would probably never have been granted from the outset. Although the individual is responsible for his/her loans and credits, it is also the obligation of credit companies to examine the possibility of payment by those who wish to borrow. The regulation of high-cost credits introduced in 2018 was, of course, a good measure. We do not want people to pay usury interest rates, and it is of course easier to repay a loan if the interest rate is reasonable. However, this does not solve the problem of over-indebtedness, and the ceiling on interest rates remains high. Interests of up to 40% are not uncommon. Making it easier to apply for debt remediation is also a patch solution from the government, and it in no way reaches the very core of the problem. When it has gone as far as deleveraging, the consequences are already great. Instead, we need measures that from the outset prevent people from falling into unhealthy debt. Here a central debt register can play a role and make it easier for creditors to examine the debt ratio of the person seeking credit. It is not only the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority that wants to introduce a central debt register, but also the Swedish Consumer Agency and the Swedish Enforcement Authority have taken a positive view of this. The Minister for the Financial Market himself has said that the government will act against fraudulent crediting of consumer loans. But first of all, the investigation must be set up before it can produce a proposal that can lead to a change of law, and that has not yet happened. That is why, Madam President, I would like to give the Government another chance to answer the question that I put in the interpellation and to which I may not really feel that I received an answer in the opening speech. When does the government intend to set up an inquiry into a central debt register? I assume that the government wants to wait for the result of the commission given to the Swedish Consumer Agency, which will be reported on 1 March 2021. But can we count on the government to set up the investigation shortly thereafter?
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-48	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Angelica Lundberg, for an important question! Over-indebtedness is a huge concern for those who end up there. We also know from research that the problems affect not only those who fall into debt but also relatives around – it affects the whole family. It is often not only economic problems but also social and health problems. For example, we know that the suicide rate is much higher in over-indebted people than in the rest of the population. So this is a general problem that we need to work actively with. I am pleased that the government is doing just that: working actively on this problem. We have done far more than previous governments have done to overcome this problem. I do not think it is right to say that it is a failure when the number of debt restructuring cases is increasing. This is partly due to the fact that we have introduced a new debt restructuring law that makes it easier to get debt restructuring. From a situation that for most people is almost hopeless where you have no opportunity to pay your debts, you now get a way out and an opening to being able to come out as debt-free after a debt adjustment. You can start a new economic life and start planning your future again. For the 15 000 who have now applied for debt adjustment and hopefully receive it, this can make a huge difference in their quality of life. Of course, it is also an opportunity for society to have more people who can participate fully in economic activity. To call this a band-aid solution, I think is a little contemptuous of the people who get the chance to have their debts written off and be able to get out. For them, this is much more than a patch. There is indeed a difference between living a life with quality of life, being able to take economic opportunities, such as buying a home, or making other plans for one's life. It is certainly something quite different from being stuck in over-indebtedness. We do, however, of course agree that this is not an overall solution. We need to do a lot to prevent people from falling into over-indebtedness from the start. I have taken more initiatives, both as former Minister of Consumer Affairs and now as Minister of Finance, than have ever been done before. For example, restrictions have been imposed on high-cost credit, which was a very rapidly growing part of the loan market. We introduced a ceiling on the amount of interest to be charged and a ceiling on costs, which meant that it must never cost more, in the form of various charges, to the borrower than it has taken in loans. This has made a huge difference to the market that previously grew almost unregulated and created huge problems for people. It is now a market that is under much better control. This also included requirements for marketing, which would be moderate. Consumers would be informed that the loans were associated with risks. However, we see that this is not enough. Precisely consumer loans are a market that is growing very fast. In this context, the government has introduced legislation which requires that, in the case of online shopping, the first option is direct payment as a means of payment. Borrowing or credit options should not be promoted as a first-line option. This is done in order for consumers to know that they have made a conscious decision if they go into debt. It should not be something that happens automatically and without being aware of the consequences. It has been a rather tough battle for this, just as the fight against high-cost credits has been. There was strong resistance. But the government and I, as Minister of Consumer Affairs and Finance Market Minister, chose to take the fight to prevent people from going into debt. We are now working on several different assignments that have been given. We'll get feedback on them. We have of course also read Finansinspektionen's proposal for a central credit register and are working on it at the Government Office, but we do not have a complete timetable for when it will be implemented.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-59	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am pleased that the Government shares the great problem picture of over-indebtedness. It's not a simple problem. As the Government says, this leads to much greater consequences than might be seen at first. However, I would like the Government and the Government to be clearer in terms of the investigation and when it could begin. What worries me most, however, is the attitude of many young people when it comes to indebtedness. In order to be granted debt adjustment, the applicant must have such large debts that he or she cannot repay the money in the foreseeable future. 80% of young people applying for debt adjustment are rejected. This means that they do not have enough debts and are expected to be able to get out of their own situation. There is a great ignorance of what to do when you incur debts. Instead, many young people view deleveraging as some kind of quickfix. These developments risk causing many young people to become trapped in long - term debt. According to Kronofogden, many young people have misunderstood what debt restructuring really means. They may have a debt of about SEK 30 000 – 40 000 and believe that if you just submit an application to Kronofogden, the debts will be written off. Of course, it is not quite that simple. Debt adjustment should be a last resort, and it is not and should not be a simple quick fix. Among young girls on social media, it is now considered cool to have debts with credit companies, and I often see threads where one has been overstepping each other in the highest debt of Klarna. Anyone who engages in the debate and gently says that she has no consumption debts and that one should only buy what one can afford is directly attacked and ridiculed and demeaningly called prudent and good. With this attitude, it feels like we have come a long way away from the characters Save and Waste in Lyckoslanten. The message to the young people was clear: Don't overconsumption because it doesn't pay off in the long run. Another problem I have encountered is that in many places it is no longer possible to buy for real money. I give my children allowance to teach them how to deal with money, but usually they can't buy for it, but I usually end up paying with my card. Then you miss a little feeling with money, to see how much goes away when you buy something and how much you get back in change and so on. This is a mess when young people learn about economics. I think it's much easier to buy things you don't really need when it's just clicking on a button on your phone. Why save for what you want when you can buy on credit and get the product right away? Most often you are attracted by interest-free loans and credits where the cost ultimately turns out to be really expensive.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-66	Madam President, I would like I, too, have been very concerned about how the view of debt has developed in our society. In large parts of the population – at least in large circles – it has become obvious that you have large debts and that you may have them for life. We saw a development where Sweden stood out compared to the rest of the Nordic countries and the rest of the world. We got on the Swedish credit market amortization-free debt that grew almost out of control. You took out loans that you never really intended to pay back. It was of course an incredibly risky behaviour that developed in Sweden. As a government, we have taken our responsibility to counteract it. We have done this by making demands on amortisation, which has made us have got a healthy amortisation culture in Sweden again. You see it now as obvious that you should have an idea and a plan for how to pay back if you take a loan. We see that there are still problems with consumer credit. Many young people do not understand the risks associated with consumer credit. It is clear that consumer loans are expensive when compared with mortgages, for example. They account for a small proportion of total consumer loans, but they account for a large part – about half – of household expenditure. As a result, you should be careful about receiving such debts. One should also be aware of the costs involved. There is a knowledge that many young people find it difficult to assess their personal finances and understand the impact of the choices made on the economy. The Government has therefore, for example, given a mandate to Finansinspektionen to produce information material and target itself with knowledge-raising measures for young people. These are materials that the school, for example, can use in various forms of teaching, ranging from math to social studies and the like. There you can discuss private finances and the consequences of over-indebtedness. It is incredibly important that we equip our young ones to make the sometimes complicated financial decisions that one needs to master when taking the step into adulthood. I think the important thing is that we ensure that in society we have a healthy view of debt, no matter what kind of money we use. If you want to use cash, physical money, you should be able to do it. This is the government's policy. But it should also be possible to use electronic payment methods, which more and more people do. I do not think we should underestimate our young people and believe that they therefore do not understand that money has a limitation. If you have a salary account or an account where you receive your study grant, for example, you know that it is a limited deposit, and then it must also be matched by a limited withdrawal from the same account. I am absolutely convinced that it is possible to get the same understanding of the restrictions that exist in our private economy whether we use electronic means of payment or physical cash. But the government's policy in this area is clear. We want every person to be able to decide for himself how to handle their payments. If you want to use cash, there should be that possibility. That is why we have also introduced legislation that says that there should not be too much distance anywhere in the country in order to be able to manage, for example, their bill payments with physical cash. But I do not think that it should be seen as some kind of main reason why debt has increased. It has increased in many countries, not only in Sweden. Nevertheless, it makes there a problem that we need to be able to deal with. There is the government's measure that consumers should receive direct payments when buying their goods online as a first choice. It is a very important measure to reduce the risk of being in debt out of ignorance.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-73	Madam President, I would like The Minister addresses the new provisions aimed at consumers shopping online making an active choice of whether they want to pay by credit or by direct payment. The law says that the direct payment option, if there is one, should be the one that pops up first. However, this regulation was poorly designed from the outset, and it has proved easy to circumvent it. For how should the company that sells the product know if I shop on credit or not when I pay with my debit card? This law I think missed the case, and I think you need to review it. It also needs to be examined what should apply regarding the creditworthiness assessment of invoice purchases. Today it is not a legal requirement, but small loans without security are the loans where most have payment reminders and debt collection requirements. The proportion of borrowers with debt collection requirements was almost four times as high in those who had made invoice purchases as with other borrowers, according to Finansinspektionen's report. Small loans may be the beginning of a large debt, and small loans have risen from 4 billion in 2008 to nearly 50 billion in 2019. I suppose it's a shame that a seven-year-old should have an account to deposit his allowance in order to be able to see that the money disappears and to actually be able to act physically for his allowance. I hope that in future it will be possible to trade in cash. In conclusion, we can see that developments are heading in the wrong direction and that many young people are being affected. Over-indebtedness is a major problem for individuals and society, and it is increasing. The government's actions have not been sufficient. The introduction of a central debt register is a step towards reversing the trend of over-indebtedness, but to do so requires a government that acts. To conclude, I would like to thank the Minister for the debate, but I think we will have reason to return to the issue.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-78	Madam President, I would like This government has acted and will continue to act to deal with this problem. As I said, this is not a specific problem for Sweden, but consumer credit is increasing throughout the Western world. But it is still of course a problem that we need to find ways to deal with. We have made more reforms than any previous government to deal with this problem, both to prevent people from falling into a debt that they cannot cope with and then to help people once they get into debt problems, for example through budget and debt counselling with the municipalities, but also because once they have ended up with a debt that they cannot cope with, they will be able to get debt restructuring and to get out debt-free afterwards. I think Angelica Lundberg is very quick to condemn a legislation that has quite recently come into place that direct payments should be the preferred option. There, it is Finansinspektionen that is the supervisory authority and is responsible for ensuring that the law is complied with. They will do their job. Then we'll evaluate and see if you reach the target. The aim is, of course, that consumers who put themselves in debt should do so consciously and by their own free will and not be deceived into it by unclear or misleading websites that lead them there. We have an active work to do. We have commissioned many of our authorities to come up with proposals on how to address the problems of over-indebtedness. We've made an interest rate cap. We've made a cost ceiling. We have a law on direct payment options as the first option when paying online. We have a new debt restructuring bill. We have done an incredible amount to reduce debt problems in our society. Without those measures, the problems would have been much worse than they are today. However, as I said, we have in no way settled down, but we will continue to work actively to counter the problems of over-indebtedness.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-81	Madam President, I would like Alexander Christiansson has asked Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson what he and the government intend to do to combat romance fraud. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Romance fraud is not a new phenomenon, but it is an approach that has now changed its character. The perpetrators are often multi-criminal persons who also engage in other crimes. The general law enforcement work of the police is also relevant to this specific crime phenomenon. The fight against crime is now being boosted by the government's large expansion of the police. We were halfway to the target of 10,000 more police employees in 2024. The establishment of the National Police Fraud Centre (NBC) has made the fight against fraud more effective, coordinated and structured, including in the case of Romance fraud. Two out of three registered romance frauds have an international connection. The Police Authority is therefore developing its international intelligence work in the field of fraud and, in particular, the exchange of information with Europol. Crimes of this kind are often difficult to investigate. In order to curb crime, it is therefore important to also increase knowledge and awareness of how to protect oneself against fraud and manipulation. About one third of the victims of romance fraud are elderly or disabled. The police authority has therefore, in collaboration with pensioners' organisations and Victim Support Finland during the year, relaunched the meeting package Do not try to deceive me, which turns to the elderly and aims to strengthen their ability to resist fraud attempts and remove the feeling of shame at having been exposed. In recent years, the Government has carried out initiatives on crime prevention and victim support work. The national crime prevention programme Together against crime is the prerequisites for a structured and long-term crime prevention work throughout society. The Council intends to return with a letter to Parliament before the end of the year in order to record the development of crime prevention work. Funds have been provided to strengthen the National Coordination and Supporting Role of the Crime Prevention Council in Crime Prevention, and a major effort has been made to support non-profit organisations supporting victims. I and the government are serious about all kinds of fraud offences and especially those targeting vulnerable groups. I will therefore follow the further developments in this area closely.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-85	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. It is positive that we can have these debates despite the current Corona situation. The subject I choose to highlight in the interpellation is important. It is a sensitive subject, not only for those affected, the victims, but also for the relatives. As the Government mentions, shame is enormous, and the social stigma that this brings is also enormous. What it means to be the victim of fraud, you probably need to have experienced yourself in order to understand in depth. How people can choose to deceive other people is deeply incomprehensible in my world. I am moved when I talk to people who have been exposed to this, see the documentaries that exist and read stories about what this means. Romance fraud is, of course, a niche part of fraud in general. A lot of people I talk to haven't even heard of romance scams before. Those affected are, as can be seen from the interpellation response, often older people who in their early years want to meet someone. Perhaps they have become widows or widows, or they live alone for other reasons. You go out and seek a contact online, and you get in contact with a person you start a relationship with. What is frightening in this context is that these relationships can be built up for a very long time. These may be years of confidence-building relationships that provide a huge amount of trust capital. Then you get led into a situation where you want to help, and then you get stuck in a insanely dark and tragic spiral of debts and payments that you can't get out of. There is a documentary at SVT called Lurad on Love and millions who describe how it can be done. I recommend everyone who looks and even you in the room here to see that documentary if you are interested in the phenomenon. In the '90s we received letters home in the mailbox from wealthy people somewhere in the world who needed help with banking transactions, and so on. I don't know if you remember. Just as it is addressed in the answer, the character has changed because of digitalisation and the success of the internet. Now we all receive emails daily by scammers who try to get in one way or another. We've learned how to handle it. We have learned to notice immediately when things smell like fraud. But it's harder when you're older and go out and seek contact, as I mentioned before, and get a contact and start a relationship. Then it's very difficult. The organisations and individuals involved in this work have a hugely complex structure. It is an insanely systematic way of working where you have websites and profiles. It is possible to check that the profiles are genuine many times, you think, but it is fake. That's a problem. There are countries that have taken action. We haven't got there yet in Sweden. It could be, for example, clearer information to the public from public authorities, international collaborations, as you mentioned, and helping banks flag in capital transfers and divergent behaviour of customers. It could be gathering accounts reported linked to fraud to stop payments to them and forcing the dating sites to take responsibility and warn.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-94	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Alexander Christiansson for a very important interpellation! The phenomenon of this type of fraud is not entirely new in world history. There has been this kind of relationship-based fraud with social manipulation for very many decades. But the scale and ability of the digital society have made this type of fraud grow in a completely different way. Today there are much clearer international links. Seven and ten of these crimes have an international connection. It shows that it is international crime. If we are to tackle this – and we have to do so, we have to push it back – we have to work very hard with other countries and also with international cooperation. I'm both curious about and interested in best practices. What have other countries done? How does it work in places where you have managed to push it back? This is one of the worst in crime. It's hard to grade crime. It's always hard to do that. But it's about socially manipulating, above all, lonely people in a vulnerable position so that they feel connected and dependent on each other and then tricking these people into a lot of money. It's important to say that you shouldn't have to feel the shame. You're the victim of a crime. It's a thought-out job. It's not something you just happened to get into. You're a victim of crime, and you're the victim of a criminal act. Therefore, it is incredibly important to say that you should always be able to register. This is true even if it wasn't so much that money didn't fool you. Perhaps you stopped just before you were going to transfer the money or do something. We need to get more knowledge. Where did those involved in crime act? If there are digital tracks that can be investigated, it gives the police and law enforcement authorities more opportunity to act against these crimes. I also want to advertise the concept Don't try to fool me, as the police are doing with the crime victims' shelters, PRO and SPF Seniors. It's been a meeting package. Now they have turned it into some kind of digital version. Now they are also doing a TV programme with the Education Radio. I think it's also on SVT Play. It is important to spread the knowledge and raise the level of consciousness both in those who can be affected themselves, in relatives and in us who are children of the elderly. We can also keep an eye on these questions, ask questions, and react if we notice that there are behaviors that may not seem quite normal or real. We'll definitely take this very seriously. Now that the police are growing, there is also a greater chance of gathering strength around fraud crimes. They have grown tremendously in recent years. Other forms of crime have diminished or remained still. But the fraud crimes have gone away in the last few years. They are a very large part of the reported crimes in Sweden today because it is so easy for criminals to use the network. I am prepared to look at further initiatives in this area and see if there are good examples from other countries. I'm curious about that. Above all, I know that the police are trying not only to investigate the crimes but also to investigate the crime prevention and victim support work. It's at least as important a part as investigating these crimes.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-104	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. A few weeks ago, I had a touching conversation with a lovely woman I'd like to tell you about. Because of the unwarranted shame and the stigma that it brings, she wants to remain anonymous, so I call her Lisa. After a long working life in industry, Lisa had been looking forward to retiring with her husband. Sadly, life plans as she had imagined when her life mate tragically passed away in a tragic and terrible illness some time ago. Of course, grief and pain led to loneliness, but also the grief of spending the rest of your life alone. After tips from friends, Lisa chose to test her love luck on the internet after careful consideration. It was mostly for fun, but you also have to dare in life. Soon she received answers from a handsome corporal in the U.S. Army. The corporal, who had roots in Sweden, served in Syria and was about to retire. He had a son in America, and he was a widower. The contact became intense in the form of daily correspondence and conversation, and he knew which buttons he would press in Lisa's emotional life. Before they would soon meet, there were only a few things left to be fixed. He had received diamonds in Syria that he wanted to sell for future purposes. The value was great. The corporal was transparent to Lisa, and the deal was to take place in Dubai. But here the problems began. The authorities in England had blocked his account. An international certificate was needed in order not to be accused of money laundering. According to the corporal, there was nothing illegal in the store, but he just had to prove his innocence to the authorities. When he couldn't get his money at the moment, the first cry came out for help from the corporal to Lisa. Of course, in good faith, she stood up to help her dear corporal with the certificates. The problems grew more and more, and more money was needed. Lisa helped. In time, there was a lot of money. It was her savings, but above all, large loans to help him. In Lisa's stomach, a lump was slowly formed. She was torn between hope and despair. She wanted to help her corporal and at the same time get back her borrowed capital. A very evil spiral had been formed. Would she even get her money back now? Lisa was not allowed to take any more loans, and there was more to pay, attorney fees, etc. The feeling that something was not right became much stronger. Something strange happened then. The corporal's friend would help him with the rest of the money. The money was to be sent to Lisa, and she was to pass it on to the corporal. She did that. Shortly thereafter, the phone rang. There was a woman from southern Sweden who called. The woman said she sent the money to Lisa. The woman also told me that she had been in contact with an American corporal who served in Syria and that she could not transfer more money to international accounts. Therefore, the corporal had asked her to send the money to a friend's wife, Lisa. Now the coin fell down. A great wave of anxiety and pain washed over Lisa. It was the same man who had had contact with both women. Now, one year after the call from the woman, Lisa's life is ruined. It's all gone. She lives on the minimum of existence, and the hope that with debt adjustment in five years' time will be free of debt is the only thing left. Along with other everyday heroes, Lisa struggles to help others who have been affected. It is a fantastic job that the Support Society Stop Romance scams do every day. But Lisa has also put a question to the government and the government, which I ask to ask on her behalf to address to Damberg. As millions of dollars disappear out of Sweden every day for criminal purposes, when thousands of women and men end up in a terrible economic situation, when they are exposed and exploited by merciless and manipulative romance scammers, when the life situation becomes so hopeless that many choose to end their lives, will the government raise this important issue and take it seriously so that romance fraud is minimized by specifically limiting and controlling payments to abroad?
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-117	Madam President, I would like It is a moving story about Lisa that Alexander Christiansson describes. And it's not unusual. Unfortunately, the pattern in these cases is quite similar to what we see in other frauds. It is not uncommon for these men who are trying to be deceived to pretend to be sailors or militarymen — occupations where you may not be at home but are traveling and have that kind of everyday life and reality. They do so to a large extent. But it is also a matter of building trust in many steps, and when they have come a long way and asked for help with a small thing it grows. People are then caught in some kind of tangle that is hard to get out of. I have great respect for this, and that is why I think it is good that the police and the National Fraud Centre in Noah have gone through all the registered romance frauds during the period January to May 2019 to just learn more and see patterns. The crime codes have been changed, so we will now look over time at how this develops and what systematics exist. I also feel that there is better cooperation with NGOs and also large organisations to disseminate knowledge on these issues. I will honestly say that I do not know everything about the question that was asked. The question of how to tackle this type of criminal activity needs to be considered. Our starting point is that we believe that an effective way to access the criminal activities of these multi-criminals is to hunt down the money. It's a different way than just looking at the crime profits they've got. You should see where they actually made their money. If there are ideas and ideas about this, we should look at it. On the other hand, many people have family and friends in other countries, and they may have a need to transfer money to them. However, we must make a clear demand for banks not to participate in criminal activities if someone sees things that are strange or if the police know something. It should also cooperate with financial institutions to prevent or stop this type of activity. The problem is that the police often find out about this too late. They become aware of this when the money is already transferred, and then it is much more difficult to achieve something. But it is still worth reporting, because then we can stop this from hitting others. Hopefully, we can get to grips with these people, and with international cooperation we can also prosecute more of them than before. I feel strongly about this issue, and I know that the police are giving priority to this type of crime. It's very thought out and very mean in character. These are issues that we must continue to work on, and we must above all learn from other countries. If there are things that other countries have done in this area, I am prepared to look at it.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-124	Madam President, I would like I share the government's picture, because I also think it is difficult for the police to hunt down the perpetrators. They are, as we said earlier, incredibly structured. They send the money from accounts all over the world back and forth, just as they do in money laundering and financing terrorism and other things. I believe that preventive work is crucial in this case. I did not have time to ask the question fully in my first post because of speaking time, but it is important that the dating sites work more effectively to capture these profiles that you know are fake and that you can warn those who go into the dating sites and join a profile. That is not the case today, and this is something that could really be a very simple measure. I think it would be important for you to get your eyes open when you go in and sign up on the site. There are now 80 complaints a month about romance fraud, so this is a growing phenomenon. It is often big money, as I mentioned earlier. It can be millions of dollars and large loans and debts. As I said, it is a terrible situation in which these people find themselves. It is also about society's view of this. I often hear from the victims that society has a boring attitude and that you have to blame yourself if you end up in this. But it is not that simple, and I am careful to point this out and underline it. This is complex psychology, and it's easy to get into it. That's why we need to be better at warning and working preventively. The government mentioned free will. Where's the line? How much should the state go in and control when an adult wants to transfer money? I would like to thank the Government for its answers and for this important debate.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-130	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking you for an important interpellation debate. This is an issue that we must continue to discuss. How can we do more together to repress this kind of vile fraud? My responsibility lies with the police department. The Police Authority is now undergoing both an expansion and a restructuring of its operations. The chief of police has said that the police must grow where the crimes grow. This means investing more and more in digital skills in order to be able to work against crime that has digital aspects. There is a lot of crime that has digital tracks today but also digital platforms. I think it is an interesting discussion to discuss not only prevention, which I think it is important to raise awareness about. One should ensure that people are not so easily tricked into such things, and then the level of consciousness must be raised. But it is also an interesting discussion to take on the responsibility of platforms to prosecute criminal activities. Now we're talking fraud crimes. You can also talk about other types of crime – hate and threats online. What responsibility do the major digital platforms feel for this when it is illegal activity? It's all about the kind of business that attracts people into covert prostitution as a way into a very vulnerable situation for vulnerable groups. There is much that the digital platforms have to take responsibility for, because they offer a very easy way to establish contact. Then it is reasonable that large platforms that make money also take responsibility both for informing and for helping the police in criminal investigations.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-135	Madam President, I would like Marléne Lund Kopparklint has asked me how I see the responsibility for the supervision of shooting ranges moving to another authority, such as a new hunting and game conservation agency, and pending such establishment to the county administrative boards or municipalities. She has also asked me how I intend to work to facilitate the police's work in order to meet her goal of renouncing her mission as a law enforcement activity. The political authority's core mission is to be responsible for matters of order and security. This includes, among other things, a broad responsibility for supervision and authorisation under arms law. This also applies to the responsibility for the supervision of shooting ranges, which aim to maintain a high level of safety. The exercise of supervision and the drafting of regulations in this area is up to the authority to decide. I do not intend at this stage to take any action regarding the responsibility for the supervision of shooting ranges. The idea of renouncing the police's work is good. The financial resources of the police should be released as far as possible in order to strengthen the core business. In recent years, the Government has taken several such initiatives, including transferring responsibility for the transport of detainees to the Prison Service and allowing county administrative boards to assume responsibility for animal welfare matters. A year ago, the government also set up an investigation tasked with carrying out a review of the regulations for security officers. One of the issues under investigation is whether security officers can perform additional tasks to free up resources for the Police Authority. The report shall be presented on 21 May 2021. However, there have been some challenges in transforming police operations. The responsibilities placed on other actors may, for example, mean that violence or coercive measures sometimes have to be used. This can lead to a shared responsibility for the issues, which can complicate a move of business. Of course, I and the government continue to consider measures to further improve the political authority's ability to carry out its mission.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-140	Madam President, I would like In the police's own strategy for 2024 under the heading of overall objectives and operational idea, it is clear that the police should devote themselves to renouncing law enforcement work. A target has been set for law enforcement and clearance. I think that is a reasonable and good goal. It is therefore important that we, as politicians, help and make sensible decisions that make it easier for the police to achieve their goal. I believe that shifting responsibility for the control of shooting ranges is such a sensible decision, especially after we have seen how shooting ranges have been closed around the country, some because the police have not had the resources to carry out their mission. The fact that the police's mission is refined and that the conditions for hunting and shooting are designed according to needs are important issues, not least in order to encourage the practice of hunting and shooting. This is extremely important for Sweden from different perspectives, not least a total defence perspective. That's why it's time to split arms law into two parts. One possible division could be the criminal law, which should then remain in the police, and another part dealing with permits and supervision, which may be under the control of the future wildlife conservation agency already decided by the Riksdag. In this way, rules against criminal proceedings are avoided from spilling over into law enforcement – something there are many examples of, for example, in the government bill. For 50 years, the control of shooting ranges was on the shooting movement through the State Shooting Officer, but since the dismantling of the organization it has been on the police. The supervision and cooperation worked well with SSO, but since this went to the police, it has been a major problem for the shooting associations. Some tracks have been forced to close because the police have not carried out the inspection in time. Others have been subject to costly measures even though they have previously been assessed as safe. It is remarkable that a course that has been deemed safe since 1942 would suddenly need to be rebuilt for hundreds of thousands of crowns in order to maintain safety. The police need and want to spend all their resources today fighting crime. Therefore, they should not be forced to spend resources on tasks that other actors can easily carry out. It is not reasonable for the police at this time to have to carry out tasks such as overseeing shooting ranges, guard hunting trails, fence mines, issue passports, dispose of animals, take care of persons who are drunk but have not committed crimes or issue permits for fireworks. It is indeed a waste of resources, especially the war that is currently going on right before our eyes, which is reaping innocent lives and spreading terror in the streets and squares among innocent men, children and women. In their hands, these people have smuggled, illegal weapons that most likely come from the Balkans.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-148	Madam President, I would like This is a good and interesting debate on an important issue. Sweden has several thousand shooting ranges to be inspected, inspected and approved by the police. The shooting tracks are used by the shooting associations, the sportsman, the Swedish Armed Forces, the police and the hunters. The permit period may vary from zero years to five years, and extra checks and additional inspections may occur. To inspect a course takes between 5 and 15 hours depending on the extent and also travel time and after work. The police will make an appointment, take pictures and process the cards. There will also be contacts with administrators, travel time, the inspection itself, record keeping, the issuing of decisions, the sending of decisions and registration. The police have so far trained about 25 people, who have completed a training course of about 40 hours. Thus, the police have already used around 1 000 hours of work to train these inspectors. This was previously handled by the Swedish National Shooting Officer, who was a collaboration between the Swedish Armed Forces and the shooting associations. This government has considered that the police should take care of these controls. We have limitations and too few police officers, and then it is particularly important that we use the police for the right things and make the right priorities. This government believes it is a police task to inspect and control the country's shooting ranges. That's why police officers are trained to inspect shooting ranges. Resources will be set aside for training, police officers will be removed from training courses and these police will then go around and inspect shooting ranges while burglary and serious crime are ravaging our society. Of course, Madam President, control of shooting ranges must be carried out to ensure that safety is high, that there are no accidents and that the facilities are not defective. But is this really a job that the police need to carry out and prioritise in these times when we miss the police and when the criminal gangs are taking over parts of our society? The government has now had six years to investigate and consider whether the police will continue to work on these tasks. Obviously, the government believes that this should be a police task. Madam President, I would like You can think about how other sports in Sweden manage to perform their trainings and competitions without the police inspecting their training facilities, competition arenas, rinks and more. These tasks are usually carried out by sports associations and competition organisers themselves, without the involvement of police resources. In the past, Sweden had a cooperation between the defense and the shooting associations that carried out the checks, an opportunity that should of course be reviewed in this case too. Madam President, I would like The second possibility is to place the permits and inspections of shooting ranges in the game authority decided by the Riksdag. In 2015, this government was commissioned, by a large majority in the Riksdag, to set up a new wildlife agency to deal with hunting and game conservation issues. After just over five years, however, the government has done nothing on this issue. Parliament's decisions have simply been ignored, which is, of course, very serious and totally unacceptable in itself. Madam President, I would like I have four questions for the Minister. Does the Minister consider the inspection of shooting ranges to be a task for the police? When will the Wildlife Agency be set up that we decided on in 2015? Does the Minister think that other sports facilities and arenas should also have to be inspected by the police in the future? Is it reasonable for the police to go out to a gravel pit and inspected shooting ranges when there is a shot on the streets of Sweden and there is a police shortage?
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-163	Madam President, I would like It is important to see that the police today have many different tasks. When I look at what tasks can be lifted by the Police Authority, my starting point is primarily to listen to the Police Authority. One of the issues that the police authorities have raised with us is security guards. Can security officers in some cases have a little longer training and thus also relieve the police? For example, when it comes to drunk people who are not violent, they could manage transport and deal with it in a way that does not need to lock the police's resources. This is being investigated in the framework of an investigation, as the police have requested. It has been said that it is an important issue to look further at. On the issue of the police's core mission, ensuring security and security in society, the police authorities have made it clear to me: When it comes to ensuring safety also at shooting ranges and at gun clearance, the police believe that this fits within their mission and that it is tasks they like to perform. I have no other opinion. I can also note that, as recently as June, the Parliament rejected a motion to change the rules for shooting ranges, since the balance today seemed to be balanced. However, I would like to give you a few points. We've had a pandemic. We have a pandemic that still leaves a deep mark. In some parts of Sweden, the training of these inspectors by the police has had to be postponed. So you have had a little too few people who have worked with these questions in the way they are supposed to do. Now I have just received the good news that there has been an education and that another education is under way, so that you check it out. I also understand that the Police Authority has opened the way for decisions to be taken only on the basis of written material in certain cases where they deem it appropriate and possible, if necessary in a particular situation. The police authorities have thus shown some flexibility in this matter. But, of course, safety is taken very seriously, because it is ultimately a matter of life and health for those who are involved in the business and also for others who may be affected by the business around them. Friend of order – when did the regulations change? When did the police get this responsibility? In September 2013. What government then? Who made the decision about this system? I feel that it was another government that was in September 2013. That the Moderates have a very high tone on this issue when you have decided on this order yourself at one time becomes a little strange. You can change your mind; I have full respect for it. It's okay. But one should not pretend that it is our government that has decided on this order, because it was carried out long before we came in. But I can be clear and say that we do not currently have any plans to change the division of responsibilities around this. The police authorities have said that they are happy to continue to have this responsibility, and I think it is reasonable for the activities to be kept together in an equal way throughout the country.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-171	Madam President, I would like Let me quote the Prime Minister:'The idea of renouncing the work of the police is good. The financial resources of the police should be released as far as possible in order to strengthen the core business. When I read what the Government replied to me, I could have been really happy if it were not for the paragraph before, where the Government clearly writes in answer to my question that no action will be taken. This shows the government that its ambition seems to be to make it more difficult for Sweden's hunters and sportsmen, instead of putting full effort into fighting organised crime such as gang crime. Madam President, I would like In its reply, the Government refers to the fact that order and security are the core tasks of the police. This has always been said, but in the police's own target for 2024 they themselves refer to the fact that law enforcement is the primary task. Today, order and security issues are already at the mercy of other authorities and actors, just as the supervision of shooting ranges previously did, which was not a problem. In addition, all the shooting ranges have obviously illuminated the danger area with clear warning signs in the forest around, at so close a distance that you can see two at the same time. There has been no known accident or incident due to deficiencies in a shooting range inspection. There are just as few arguments for the police to have this task as for the police to handle the car inspection because it is the police who prosecute traffic offences. Madam President, I would like With all this in mind, I can see no reason why this task should remain with the police. One might think, in the light of the Government's response, that we actually agree to remove tasks from the police that take time from the law enforcement work. But in the next breath it is clear that we do not agree because the Government does not believe that it should do so. This is going to be a little ambivalent. What does the government really want? Madam President, I would like Why should the police have to give priority to this instead of a game conservation agency doing so and, until such time as it comes about, that municipalities or county boards are allowed to take over the responsibility? Pending the arrival of this authority, this information could be put on another actor so that the police can do exactly what they themselves say they want to do: fight crime. Madam President, I would like We Moderates believe that the police must be given more resources to fight crime. Therefore, we must all help to make it easier for the police by making sensible political decisions, from both the government and the parliament, and not to pursue issues that take time from work to overcome the serious situation that Sweden is in. Of course, illegal weapons should disappear from the hands of criminals; we all agree on that. I am absolutely convinced that it would make a difference if the police had to put away work like fit animals, make fences for mines, measure shooting walls and distance to trees, make sure that too drunk people don't vomit or hurt themselves – I can do the list anymore. So please, let us all agree to help the police streamline their mission to law enforcement, in the name of security.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-179	Madam President, I would like I note that I did not receive an answer to the arrival of the new Wildlife Agency. It has now been over five years. Instead, Minister Damberg tries to blame the decision of the old government in 2013. I would like to inform the Government and the Minister that this government has been sitting for six years and has chosen to place this supervision with the police, and that is what we are criticising today. There were other solutions, but you chose to put it on the police and use police resources to go around and inspect our shooting ranges. Madam President, I would like Media has written on several occasions that the police have not had time to inspect shooting ranges, which means that both training and competition are at risk of being deprived and that our hunters risk not being allowed to participate in either hunting or other because they have not postponed. At the same time, it is particularly strange that the government is forcing the police to do this when the really dangerous shootings take place in our streets and squares around Sweden – that the police, Madam President, under the circumstances prevailing in Sweden are forced to get in the car and go out to a pit of gravel to inspect the tracks when the police force had been needed to lock up serious criminals and save lives in our streets and squares. Madam President, I would like It is hardly in the shooting ranges that the shooting crimes are committed, but they are committed today in our streets and squares. There the police would of course do more good than in a gravel pit out in the woods. Madam President, I would like It's time for this government to start prioritising the police's duties. The police should not be in a pit in the woods, but the police should hunt down the serious criminals and fight the shootings on our streets and squares in Sweden.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-184	Madam President, I would like One clarification: the police authorities want to streamline their activities, but they do not want to get rid of this activity – point. Secondly, it becomes completely unserious if you say that you should move responsibility, because then the Moderates know that you also move the money. That is how a future parliament would decide that we should move this responsibility to the Police Authority with that money. The resources used to carry out these checks will then be moved elsewhere. With regard to which government has taken the decision, a government took a decision in 2013 to place this responsibility on the Police Authority. We have not changed this, but we have fulfilled the decision of a moderate government in 2013. There may be comments on this. I do not know what considerations the moderate-led government made when choosing to place these efforts on the Police Authority. The Moderates can sort that out in the future. I think it is important to say that when it comes to combating gang violence, we are talking about quite another effort. Then we are talking about expanding the police force with 10 000 more police workers, the largest expansion of a large authority in modern times. We are talking about tightening up penalties, not least for weapons crimes, where we have tightened the penalties several times so that the serious weapons crimes lead to compulsory detention and to people who are not authorised to carry weapons going to prison for a long time. We have expanded the resources of customs, but now we are also strengthening the legislation further, with further crimes, so that customs are given new powers at the border and can use secret coercive measures in a completely different way than before to prevent the weapons used in criminal settlements from entering our country. We not only work in Sweden on this issue; we work internationally to stop both drugs and weapons from entering Sweden. This is therefore a work that we take very seriously. However, when talking about the responsibility of different authorities for supervision and follow-up, it is also important to listen to these authorities when they have opinions about the type of supervision they want to exercise. I note that in this case the government and the police authorities think the same thing.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-190	Madam President, I would like But now the police want to refine their mission. And if you delete such a task, you do not necessarily have to move the money away. I really don't think it makes sense, when Sweden is on fire, that the police should have to spend resources on measuring gravel on shooting tracks, with our law-abiding hunters and sportsmen. The Government refers to the fact that the police have offered an opportunity to carry out this supervision despite the pandemic. Then it is a matter of legal uncertainty to make the assessments from two-dimensional photographs to determine whether a shooting range is safe or not. Applying the rules in this way has something amateurish over it in my world. It is difficult to determine angles in height and from the side when you only see it from the front. This approach would then only be used because of the pandemic. One might argue that it is nevertheless a good thing that the police are doing this supervision. In fact, however, the police have for a long time lacked resources and prioritised this activity. If the police are to reach their business goal before 2024 to streamline their mission to law enforcement work, there are no arguments for this responsibility to remain under police control. It is better, as the police themselves say in their aim, that you become a more professional police officer who engages in law enforcement, and that does not belong to this. Nor is it any wonder that this activity has not become a priority, because the police should not do this. That is clearly stated in its objective. It's just as it should be: the police are going after criminals. Quod your demon beach.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-197	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to turn to the claim that the Police Authority is amateur. I don't think it's a choice of words we should use about the police department. Nor do I think that it is not to take responsibility when granting exemptions and reliefs in a regulatory framework during a pandemic. I think it is the opposite: during a pandemic, when you can show that the conditions are different, you can also in some cases try the cases in a different way, precisely for the benefit of those who operate on the shooting tracks. Moreover, it has not been used very extensively. More people are now being trained, and more people will be working on this in the future, and they will be able to do better. The Parliament rejected claims in line with this as late as June. We can therefore see that there is no parliamentary majority to change this. And no matter how many times the Moderates try to argue the opposite in this debate: the government and the police authorities think exactly the same on this issue. We believe that the responsibility for supervision should remain with the police, and we think that the police should be refined in such a way that the police can gather together against organised crime. That is exactly what we will continue to do.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-200	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I intend to give the police more resources to tackle the problem of manipulated tachographs, unauthorised cabotage and other serious crimes in professional traffic. Some time ago I received similar questions from Thomas Morell. As I described at the time, I and the Council will continue our hard work to combat crime. This requires, among other things, an accessible police officer, a strong judiciary and effective legislation. Here the building of the Police Authority is a central part, and the government is carrying out a historic effort on the agency. By the end of June, we passed halfway to the target of 10,000 more police workers, and nearly 3,000 more police students are on their way out in the coming years. It is also gratifying that fewer police officers end up in the agency. There's never been more police employees than this year. The allocation of resources within the Agency is a matter for the Police Authority to decide on. The police's control of heavy traffic is an important tool for maintaining good road safety, healthy competition in the haulage industry and a good social situation for drivers. The controls are also an important component of the Politiska området's work to prevent, detect and investigate crimes. Controlling heavy commercial traffic requires specific skills, which some police officers possess, but all police officers can stop and control a vehicle in case of suspicion of a crime. In its regulation letter 2017, the Police Authority was tasked with further developing its work on controls of cabotage transport and flying inspections of commercial vehicles and ensuring that efforts in these areas are improved. The measures taken by the Authority in relation to these tasks shall be reported in the annual accounts until 2020. The requirement for re-reporting includes a discussion of the effects that the measures are deemed to have had or are likely to have. The government has found reason to review the way in which the road traffic control activities are carried out. A specific investigator shall propose improvement measures, including organisational measures, in order for more people to comply with the relevant rules. I do not intend to pre-empt the ongoing investigation and, at the same time, I assume that the Police Authority will best benefit from the substantial addition of resources in order, among other things, to combat crime on our roads. But let me be clear: despite the additional resources and several ongoing initiatives, the Government's ambitions for the situation on the roads go further. V i has an ambitious intermediate target of halving the number of road fatalities by 2030, and the pursuit of healthy competition in the haulage industry is constantly evolving.
i-WGLPwoBCe9hD6rWW2tyi2h	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Mikael Damberg, for your answer! It was not that long ago that we were here discussing professional traffic and the checks on the road. However, a great deal has happened since we last discussed this. Unfortunately, this is a negative development. There are a few things in the Minister's reply that I would like to develop a little. The second paragraph of the reply states, among other things, that the government continues its hard work in combating crime. It is good that you invest in the police and make sure that there are more people in the business, but I think the efforts are too small given what we see around us out in society and out on our roads. In the next paragraph of the answer, the Government says: a matter for the Police Authority to decide on how resources should be allocated within the Agency. Yes, that is largely correct, but there is also a regulatory letter in which the government can express a focus on how it wants it. I do not think that the government has made full use of this opportunity here. 中 The police's control of heavy traffic is an important tool for maintaining good road safety, healthy competition in the haulage industry and a good social situation for drivers. There are three important parts, but some are missing. That is also the livelihood of criminal activities. We must not forget what the police themselves have stated, namely that the illegal activity on the roads creates economic muscle for criminals to invest in other criminal activities. I listened to the previous interpellation debate on shootings in streets and squares. The weapons that enter Sweden usually come on rubber wheels, so there is every reason to increase control. Then I reacted to one thing in the answer. The Minister says all police officers can stop and control vehicles in case of suspicion of a crime. Yes, the IGV police, i.e. the ordinary police, can stop a heavy vehicle and basically check if the driver has a driving licence and is sober, but it stops there, because then it becomes so complicated that you simply do not do such checks. Last Friday I met with the chief of traffic police up in Norrbotten and discussed the situation. They see it as worrying, because they are too few in relation to the scale of the criminal activity on the road. Some time ago, the Government Office visited Långeberga in Helsingborg. I have to say that it was with great pleasure that I read an article about this, because there the representatives of the Government Office were able to see what the police found out on the road. Among other things, they took a DUI of 0.44 per mille, a foreign combination. Unauthorised cabotage was also found, for long carriages, vehicle shortages and speed violations and, of course, cabotage offences. A combination had an excess load of 110 percent. But that did not go far, for soon afterward the police took another combination with an excess load of 697 percent! The police shall prevent the continuation of the journey when the excess load of the vehicle exceeds 20 per cent. Here one can say that the border was crossed by far. My question to the Government is: will the Government clearly give instructions to the Authority via regulatory letters to increase resources on the way? We know that what is happening out there creates the conditions for other crime.
i-DHrizHG2qcnAyZvnGLs49A	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for another interpellation on this important subject! The matter is that the Police Authority has received special funds to be reported in the Annual Report 2020 at the latest. We do not usually give double assignments to authorities, but the authority should first report its assignments before looking at whether to give further assignments. In this area, however, one can note that the chief police officer himself has said that traffic crime is an important issue. There are links. I think we should read the answer as these parts, but then it is also work to prevent, detect and investigate crimes – this was in the sentence after – which is an important part of the control work. It is possible to investigate other types of crime that are linked to the fact that there is no order on the roads. This is therefore an important issue. The whole control operation has suffered a little – we have discussed that before. We've had too few checks on the way. We may still not be up to the volume we would like, but we see that controls on the move have increased in the first months of 2020. I believe that the latest statistics run until October. Yes, during the period January – October this year, the agency has increased the number of checks compared to last year – it concerns driving and rest times, dangerous goods and flying inspections. But I believe that more needs to be done in this area. That's why I'm happy when the police department says they're now training more controllers. A specific knowledge is needed to deal not least with heavy traffic and commercial traffic, and then there are more people with specific skills. As we know, we have also set up an investigation to look at the whole issue of road traffic control – including organisational measures – in order for more people to comply with the rules. It is a very important piece of work where we look at how different authorities can interact and, above all, in what organisational form we should have these controls. We in the government have made up our minds. We have seen that this area has been characterised by too much hallaballoj, too little order, too few proper rules and too little follow-up. As a result, we have flagged out some of our companies from Sweden. We have seen that international companies have come here and broken our rules. That is why we have tightened the regulatory framework for cabotage. We've put in place rules on clapping. We've tightened the penalties. We are now working not least on the follow-up questions, the studded question, questions about alcotests and other issues. In this area, not least, the Minister for Infrastructure is working very hard on his share of responsibility for this. My responsibility, of course, is the Police Authority, but I am confident that the Police Authority will continue to develop its operations as it continues to grow. The head of the police has said that this is an area he wants to see more of. Then I think that will also happen.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-223	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The newspaper Trailer made an account of this heavy week. At that time, there was a 700-percent case – 723 per cent. Then we are not talking about a heavy vehicle, because it would literally sink through the asphalt if it were so heavy. Here we are talking about vehicles of three and a half tonnes, which then load as much as they get up in these huge overloads. Overloaded a light vehicle with 700 per cent understands that it has a negative impact on road safety. It also affects the vehicle's ability to carry the load. Why do you do this? Yes, this is done to escape the requirement for tachographs. Traffic permits are not required in international transport. You simply fly under the radar when it comes to driving and resting times. Even the rest-time regulation does not cover this. Much of the freight traffic is therefore spent on light-duty vehicles, which means that drivers can, in principle, sit and drive around the clock. They then run with these loads. I visited Norrbotten on Friday. During the week they were out in the police region of the North, 102 trucks were controlled. Police traffic groups and border police collaborated with the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office and the Swedish Work Environment Agency during road safety week. The result was the following, says Trailer:
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-227	2 drivers were caught driving on someone else's driver's card and a total of 11 drivers were reported for violation of driving and rest time rules. The maximum daily driving time was 21 hours and 23 minutes. ♪ Hear and behold! Then there won't be much time in the day. 21 hours and 23 minutes was the daily driving time. I would like to see the hands that come up in the air when you say: I want to meet such a driver.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-228	19 ADR vehicles were checked, 6 of which were reported. The ADR is therefore dangerous goods. It is a substance that can be harmful to people and the environment.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-231	This was a unit, the traffic police in the North Police Region, in a week. To me, these figures tell me how things are really going along the way. This clearly shows where resources need to be put to curb this. This obviously has a negative impact on road safety. It eliminates competition for the transport industry. But it also supports criminal activity, for criminals create their economic muscles in this.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-233	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to make it clear once again that the police already have this in their regulatory letters: that they should work on these issues and report back to the latest in the annual report for 2020 how the work has been carried out and what impact the work has had. I note that in the first few months of this year, until October, checks on the road have increased, although from low levels. My ambition is that they should continue to increase and that the growth of the police, now that you are growing, will lead to greater prosecution of crimes on the way. I believe that this is important for precisely the reasons that Thomas Morell puts forward. It is about order in the industry and the working environment for those who work. It is also about punishing crimes and criminal activities in Sweden. Ultimately, it is also about safety on the road. There we in Sweden have a very ambitious long-term goal, a zero vision, of zero deaths on the roads. We also have a very strong intermediate target of halving road mortality by 2030. It is my absolute assessment that controls on the road must be stepped up if we are to succeed in this. The risk of detection must increase. More people have to lose their license when they break the rules. More companies that violate the regulations that exist in Sweden must be judged for this. It should be costly and felt if you break the rules. Otherwise, we will not achieve our ambition to halve the number of fatalities in traffic by 2030. Thomas Morell has deep knowledge in this area. I am pleased that he commends the North Police Region for their work in this short period. But this also shows how much you discover when you control. That work must continue to grow in the coming years.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-238	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Well, I had a long and fruitful conversation with the chief of traffic police up in the North Police Region. We discussed how best to reach out and get a better result in the work you do. This week shows how good they are when they get to be out and, so to speak, search. The officials involved in this type of control have a pretty good sense of what type of vehicle to stop. They know which vehicles are moving in the area and which companies are buying this type of transport. There is a great deal of knowledge about this, but this experience needs to be built up for many years. I myself left the agency in 2007, and I have seen how this has been phased out over the years. It takes time to rebuild that competence, because it is not just about checking drivers' driving licences and driving and rest periods. It is also about the licensing part, dangerous goods, weights and cargo securing. Can that trailer hang on that vehicle and so on? It's a complex business to work in. In addition, knowledge of transport flows should be built up to find those who regularly violate the rules. I will be watching the issue, as the Government will surely know. There will certainly be more debates on this in the future, but I thank you for a good debate today.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-242	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for the interpellation debate! I am confident that Mr Morell will continue to intervene and that we will continue to debate these important issues. The government is determined to push for order and order and to improve compliance. Professional traffic must be characterised by fair competition, fair conditions and a good working environment for drivers on the roads, and we will ensure that the police can also access criminal activities around Sweden. The police organization will grow, and that work has begun. I was informed that there is an education for a car inspector at the moment, and another course is planned next year. This shows that the police are now filling up with new skills in this area, which I think is absolutely necessary. I would also like to draw attention to the major investigation that we have set up to look at how the control activities of professional traffic are to be carried out more effectively than today. The investigation shall also make proposals for a comprehensive organisational structure for the control activities. Checks will be improved and the rules will be followed. With more effective roadside checks, more will follow the rules, and then we also have a better chance of achieving our zero vision or milestone target of reducing the number of deaths by half by 2030. It is a work that I am absolutely sure Thomas Morell and I will continue to discuss in the future.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-246	Madam President, I would like Pål Jonson has asked me how I view the safety risks of the new 5G network and what measures I intend to take forward in order for Sweden to have updated and relevant legislation regarding Sweden's IT infrastructure. Pål Jonson has also asked me what I have done to satisfy the announcement that the Parliament addressed to the Government regarding the possibilities for the Security Service and the Armed Forces to appeal permission to the Government. The roll-out of 5G is an important prerequisite for future digital services and plays a major role in digitalisation. As the 5G is introduced, society will already be heavily dependent on reliable electronic communications services. As the importance of communication networks increases, society's sensitivity to risks and vulnerabilities also increases. Appropriate requirements must therefore be able to be placed on the security. In order for the 5G networks to maintain a sufficiently high level of safety, the security aspects need to be taken into account when building up the networks. The government has taken early steps to strengthen safety in 5G. Since 1 January this year, authorisation to use radio transmitters can only be granted if it can be assumed that radio use will not cause harm to Sweden's safety. The permits can also be combined with conditions that contain requirements that are relevant to Sweden's safety. If it turns out that radio use causes r or can be assumed to cause harm to Sweden's safety, an existing permit may be revoked. The new rules apply when the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency is now conducting an auction of radio licences in some of the frequency bands necessary for the roll-out of fifth generation mobile telephony to take off seriously. Prior to the auction, PTS, in consultation with the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Security Service, has examined the operators who have applied to participate in the auction and made decisions on the safety requirements to be applied in order to minimise risks to Sweden's safety. The decision states, inter alia, that certain suppliers are excluded and that key functions of the 5G networks must not be dependent on personnel or functions located abroad. The government is working on the issue of security in 5G in several ways. We have analysed risks with 5G in collaboration with the other countries of the European Union and made recommendations on how risks can be managed. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency to identify the main threats and risks to the Swedish electronic communications infrastructure. Declaration of the assignment shall take place at the beginning of 2021. PTS has issued regulations with safety requirements applicable to all operators and both fixed and mobile networks. During the year, PTS has supplemented the regulations with stricter safety requirements for procurement of equipment and services. They are now also reviewing all the safety rules in the regulations. At the same time, the Government Office is working on the implementation of the new EU regulation for the sector, which includes strengthened requirements for operators to take security measures and report security incidents. The issue of the possibilities for the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Armed Forces to appeal to the Government is currently being prepared in the Government Office. The rules on appeals must be drawn up in accordance with EU law. As can be seen from the Government's proposal Protection of Sweden's safety in radio use includes the examination of matters relating to permission to use radio transmitters a number of different assessment bases. In those parts that do not focus on the issue of Sweden's safety, it is not appropriate for the examination of appeals to be made by the Government. It is also associated with practical difficulties to appeal to the Government those parts of an appeal relating to Sweden's security, while the other parts are appealed to the administrative court.
i-A3TBj1Q7AxcQvrtAUuJC8c	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Digitization, for the answer to my interpellation! The development of the first question in my interpellation, linked to 5G, has been partly made clear by the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Security Service, together with PTS, on 20 October, regarding the fifth generation of mobile networks. It was in my view a very clear-sighted and relevant position by the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Security Service, which pointed to the importance of carefully evaluating and taking action against the security risks that may be linked to the 5G equipment. This shows that, in this case, we have had good and resourceful legislation in place that allows the state to consider safety aspects of the fifth generation of mobile networks. It's basically good. I believe that I and Anders Ygeman differ precisely on the question of the order of appeal or appeal, i.e. whether this should be done to the government or to the administrative court. I will come back to this in my second speech. Madam President, I would like Let me first say that digitalisation in general and 5G in particular create great opportunities for our society. It creates the conditions for self-driving cars, autonomous factories and smart cities. There are some examples of this. The rapid development of technology simplifies our everyday lives and creates opportunities for smooth and efficient solutions in many areas. Basically, all this is about 5G to a large extent becoming the central nervous system in how people actually live their lives in the future, at least until we get 6G in place. Madam President, I would like Digitalisation also creates high dependency conditions and high vulnerabilities, especially if the infrastructure to deliver digitalisation is not sufficiently secure, and this is where 5G technology becomes important and central. We have a problem in Sweden. On a general level, there is a growing gap between digitalisation and cybersecurity. Digitalisation is at exponential speed, and unfortunately, security often comes after or in the second place. We are far from alone in this trend at international level, but we stand out in this context. The Global Security Index last year ranked Sweden as the world's fifth most digitised country. Well, that's very good. The Swedes are known for being early adopters and good at taking on new technology. But when we evaluated our cybersecurity, we didn't actually get to location 32. MSB has also seen this problem. It was pointed out in its national risk and vulnerability analysis that, unless high priority is given to security, confidence in digitalisation and its social benefits are threatened. It also called on the government to have much stronger governance at central, regional and local levels, not least when it comes to developing secure communications. This is particularly important given that we have recently resumed what is called total defence planning. Madam President, I would like This is all the more important in the light of the fact that state-sanctioned, advanced cyber attacks have increased in strength and scope both at global level and against Sweden in recent years. We have seen it even during the pandemic, where the problem has grown with people working remotely with unsafe communications. The Security Service only stated a few weeks ago that cyber attacks cost Sweden billions each year. I can also note that the Swedish Security Service also highlights the fact that the Chinese state is conducting cyber espionage against Sweden in order to promote economic development and develop its military capabilities. These are also things that we need to consider when developing the next generation, 5G. My question to Anders Ygeman is: Why does Sweden have a goal for digitalisation but not for cybersecurity? We have since 2011 as our goal to be the world's most digitised country.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-261	Madam President, I would like Let me say that there are a number of cybersecurity measures and targets, and a cybersecurity centre will soon be set up. However, cybersecurity issues in the government are classified under Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg. If you want to discuss those questions in a deeper context, you have to ask him an interpellation. I welcome the fact that Pål Jonson acknowledges that the government's tightening up has led to increased safety in Swedish radio communications. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for the constructive contribution made by the Moderates and other parties in this House to the legislation. This allowed Sweden to have good legislation in place earlier than many other countries. This means that Swedish 5G expansion will be safer than in many other countries and that it will go faster and with lower costs than those countries that will have to deal with security issues afterwards when they have already built their 5G networks and with the risks that come with it. This would not have been possible if the parliamentary parties had not dealt with the issues constructively. I'd like to thank you for that. Pål Jonson picks up a ranking. When I look at the rankings that have been made by Sweden's digital ability, I note that there are in the order of 2 000 international rankings that measure this ability in different ways. Although it is possible to pick out a ranking here or a ranking there that proves that Sweden is great or very bad, I can say that the aggregate picture is that Sweden is in the top tier when it comes to digitalisation. That also applies to safety. It is the aggregated image of all these rankings. Then you can choose to take out one or the other to prove an individual claim. But this does not make us settle down. We must be determined that Sweden should be the country in the world that is best at taking advantage of the opportunities of digitalisation. We're not unless security's in the first place. We know that it is more expensive and less expensive to add security afterwards. Therefore, the entire steering must be in place. It should be a high and good safety thinking at the same speed as digitalisation in general.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-265	Madam President, I would like I object, Anders Ygeman, to the fact that it only takes responsibility for digitalisation and refers to another minister on cybersecurity issues. These issues must be interrelated, and, as the Government said, they must be interrelated from the beginning. I mentioned a measurement. There are a number of measurements that indicate that we in Sweden are significantly more skilled in digitalisation than we are in cybersecurity. There are a number of reasons why this is the case, I understand. I see that it is difficult to get constitutional support in order. There are seven or eight laws that need to be taken into account in cyber security. I understand that it has been difficult to get cooperation between authorities together, and I see that it has been very difficult to get cooperation between the authorities and the business community together in this. I can also say that there has been a delay, and that is linked to the establishment of the new cybersecurity centre. All other Nordic countries have such centres in place, alongside Iceland, Madam President. These are some of the problems I've been trying to give. I see the risk of talking about digitization in drainpipes versus cybersecurity. You're not the valet of that. Nevertheless, I would like to raise the question of the order of procedure. I appreciate what Ygeman said about his understanding that the law actually improved after parliamentary treatment. Nevertheless, the Riksdag announced to the Government that appeals from the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Armed Forces should be made to the Government, not to the Administrative Court. It was also a united defence committee that supported this. There are three important reasons why we should have that order, that is to say that appeals on such matters should go to the government rather than to the administrative court. The first reason is, in principle, the most important, namely that this is an issue that concerns Sweden's national security and should therefore be decided by the government and not by an administrative court. This is a decision that requires, as the British say, a whole-of-government approach, i.e. a balanced assessment of all essential national security interests, and it is ultimately the government that is responsible for national security, or Sweden's security as it is now called when the new security law is in place. The second reason is that there are precedents in which the government actually makes decisions on the issues, for example in the Special Alien Control Act. We are now looking at the question of which jurisdictional regime should exist for foreign direct investment in companies and operators carrying out security sensitive activities; whether decisions should be taken by the government or by administrative courts. Our view is that these issues belong in the government. The third reason is that we call on Ygeman to listen to the profession. During the consultation of the law being handled now, both the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Armed Forces were clear that they thought it was a more natural order that appeals are actually made to the government and not to an administrative court. I understand, of course, the temptation for the government to shift responsibility in such matters. These can be difficult and complex balances that need to be made, but I understand that when it comes to Sweden's security, responsibility for the whole is not taken. When does the government intend to return to the Riksdag, the Minister for Digitalization, regarding its final position on court order and to whom appeals should be made – to the Government or to an administrative court?
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-273	Madam President, I would like Of course, the issues of digitalisation and cybersecurity are interrelated, but there is also a clear department for which minister is in charge of which issue. The Parliamentary Order sets limits on the questions that ministers can answer in interpellation debates. I'm sure Pål Jonson knows this because it's a system that even the Moderates profess. The question of the order of proceedings is being prepared in the Government Office, but I can see that the question is much more complicated than what Pål Jonson here wishes to say. In essence, I believe that it is a careful consideration that must be given to safeguarding Sweden's position as a rule of law, high levels of security and the possibility for companies to have a fair trial. On this issue, we will simply have to come back when the preparation is completed.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-275	Madam President, I would like Let me conclude, Anders Ygeman, by extending the debate slightly beyond 5G specific and different jurisdictional arrangements, at least extending it beyond Sweden's borders and lifting a Nordic dimension. In connection with the parliamentary examination of the current legislation, we moderated that there is also reason to deepen the Nordic cooperation of 5G. Unfortunately, the proposal was rejected, but I would still like to raise the issues because I think they are important. Madam President, I would like Basically, this is about the Nordic region being the most digitised region in the world. The basis for this has been laid by a strong digital infrastructure in our part of the world. I might also add that two of the world's four leading companies in terms of 5G are actually Nordic at some level. The Minister for Digitalization also knows that in May 2018, the Nordic prime ministers decided that the Nordic region will actually become the world's first and most interconnected 5G region in the world. That is an excellent ambition, which I welcome. But, once again, at the Nordic level they have a digitization target but not a safety target. The declaration of intent presented by the Ministers of State does not mention the word security at all in the final declaration. I'm afraid that's a flaw. I see some challenges if we are not strongly coordinated at the Nordic level, if we are to link our systems together in different forms and become the world's most integrated 5G region, which we all strive for. The second dimension that could also be developed is to make common positions in international fora linked to 5G. It could be the EU, NATO or in international negotiations. I just want to hear in all simplicity how the Minister for Digitalization himself sees the conditions for deepening Nordic cooperation when one does not meet, indeed, the Moderates' proposals in this area. I thank the Minister for digitisation for the debate.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-282	Madam President, I would like As Pål Jonson says, we are coordinated at the Nordic and European level. Sweden has been one of the leading countries to develop the so-called toolbox for 5G security. We can also note that Sweden took the lead in this work and had legislation in place before the EU came to a decision. This is because Sweden is far ahead. We could not afford to wait for the EU toolbox. We pushed for it to be developed, but we could not afford to wait. I can only say that the discussion shows that we agree on the legislation passed by Parliament. This is good, and it is a strength for Sweden. I think that Parliament has dealt with this issue in a very constructive way, and I hope that we can work together constructively in the future.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-284	Madam President, I would like Robert Stenkvist has asked me whether I believe cheating with the help of so-called ghost writers in college is a problem and whether the disciplinary measures taken today to combat the professional ghost writing are enough or whether changes to the Higher Education Act are needed. Initially, I would like to say that cheating in college in all its forms is unacceptable and a problem that I seriously regard. The University Chancellor's Office, UKÄ, has been publishing regular follow-ups of disciplinary measures against students for a number of years. According to these reports, the number of cases of disciplinary action against students, in particular as a result of plagiarism, has increased over several years. This can be explained to some extent by the fact that universities and colleges have become better at detecting cheating, but if the cheating actually increases, the trend is very worrying. The Government follows UKÄ's follow-up very closely. Untruely acquiring a degree or even a university degree is deeply unethical and damages confidence in higher education. Of course, the fact that there are people who make money selling prewritten papers is deeply offensive. Therefore, the work of universities and colleges to prevent cheating is very important, not least the work of developing examination forms that make it difficult to cheat with the help of, for example, plagiarism papers. The legislation provides universities and colleges with tools to take strong action against cheating. The Higher Education Act states that the Government may provide for temporary suspension of students. The Higher Education Ordinance contains detailed rules on disciplinary measures. The student who tries to mislead by means of unauthorised means or by other means during examinations or when a study performance is otherwise to be assessed may be subject to disciplinary action. Such disciplinary measures are warning and suspension. A decision to suspend means that the student may not participate in teaching, examinations or other activities within the framework of the education at the university for up to six months. Such a suspension, even if relatively short, may have a major impact on the ability to complete training, since there is no guarantee that training elements during the suspension can be completed afterwards. When a decision on suspension has been taken, the Central Student Support Board will also be informed immediately. After all, the cheater has not completed his studies, and a decision to suspend may thus affect future opportunities to receive student aid. There is also support in the Administrative Act to change a passing grade to a failed grade if the decision is incorrect because the student has cheated. The Vice-Chancellor of the respective universities and colleges shall investigate suspicions of offences that may lead to disciplinary action. Where appropriate, such matters shall be referred for review to the Disciplinary Board of each university and college. Of course, the respective universities and colleges have a great responsibility to systematically work preventively and to carefully investigate all suspicions of cheating. It is also important that universities and higher education institutions develop, as far as possible, forms of examination that make it difficult for students who have plagiarized, for example, an essay to be approved. Of course, students who have hired others to acquire academic achievements on an untrue basis should be subject to disciplinary measures. The payment and use of completed essays by individual students is also a question of the individual student's integrity. Finally, cheating and dishonesty in all education and economic activities are reprehensible and immoral. In particular, it is offensive that there is a market for organised and commercial cheating. The current rules provide the conditions and tools for universities to prevent and prosecute cheating and plagiarism. I follow developments closely with the responsible authorities and do not rule out the possibility of new measures in the future.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-292	Madam President, I would like I do not think that this is a matter for party struggles and the like, but I think that we fundamentally feel the same. We all want to fight cheating. First of all, I would like to point out that this is not common cheating, where texts are plagiarized. There are tools for very easy and fast detection of plagiarism texts. This is a new form of cheating, but not entirely new. It started coming to Sweden in the early 2000s, I know. It is therefore companies that offer to write essays and different papers for students for a sum of money. It is not possible to discover with the usual tools that colleges use to detect plagiarism text. Companies, popularly known as essay mills, check that the essays go through those tools before they sell them to students. So it's hard to detect. It is not easy to discover, and it makes it extra complicated. I will also say that so far this is not as great a phenomenon in Sweden as it is in some other countries, mainly English-speaking, and it is simply due to the Swedish language. The companies that sell these essays and other documents are not at home in Swedish, which so far provides protection against this in Sweden. But more and more teaching takes place in English, which means that this can become a much bigger problem in the future. Many governments, including the present one, react late to such phenomena. I think it's better to be a little at the forefront and keep your eyes open for a problem that can and probably will grow much bigger. Unfortunately, the fact that these companies sell such documents is not illegal. Their activities are so far completely legal. I can understand that it may be complicated to pass laws that prohibit this, but I think that the government should look at whether it is possible to do something legislative in order to act against these companies, although in almost all cases unfortunately they are located outside Sweden's borders. Or unfortunately – it's good that they don't exist in Sweden. Thank you for the answer, if I didn't say so! I'm looking at the measures against students caught. It's hard to catch them, but if they're caught, they can lose credits and be turned off for six months if I get it right. I wonder what happens to the study grant received if they are caught cheating in this way. Is it possible to also cancel the study grant?
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-299	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Robert Stenkvist, for the interpellation! It's an important interpellation. I would like to emphasise once again that cheating at the university – whether in education, in the university test or in research – is totally unacceptable, regardless of form, point. I'm very upset about this. To acquire, on an untrue basis, a study achievement, or perhaps even a university degree, is deeply unethical and damages confidence in higher education. The fact that there are people who make money selling prewritten essays is truly deeply offensive. As far as disciplinary measures are concerned, we should remember that we have over 400 000 students at our universities and colleges. According to the latest follow-up from UKÄ, the University Chancellor's Office, 1,326 students were the subject of a disciplinary action. This was 2018. The vast majority of them – 1,057 students – were turned off, and the others received warnings. The vast majority of cases concerned various forms of cheating and plagiarism. So most of them were shut down. You can be turned off for up to six months and are not allowed to take part in your education. CSN must be informed immediately that the student has been switched off. This, of course, affects the means of study because you have not taken your credits. It can also affect the future so that you do not receive renewed study funding. In my opinion, there are tools and measures in the Higher Education Act and the Higher Education Ordinance to ensure that we do not cheat at the university and to take disciplinary action if that happens. I would therefore like to make it clear that there are tools in the current legislation – we can take strong action against cheating. However, if it is the case that more needs to be done, I am not ruling it out, but I am following this issue closely. If it turns out that this is something that is increasing or that we are not getting control of, as I said, I do not exclude that we need to do more. The work against cheating may be particularly important in the times of trial that we are now going through with the coronapandemine, when much of the teaching and examinations due to adaptations to the coronapandemine are done digitally. Universities and colleges have also reported that they see more disciplinary matters during this time. I expect all universities and colleges to use the tools they have to curb cheating. It is totally unacceptable, as I said, to cheat in higher education, whether in terms of education, university tests or research. If we need to take more action, that is absolutely not something that I exclude.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-307	Madam President, I would like As far as more needs to be done, I mentioned the companies – essay mills – that exist, but perhaps this should be on the table of the Committee on Justice. I can imagine that this is a complex issue and that there will be complex legislation. During the coronapndemin much of the exams and other things take place at home, digitally, and then the risk of such things increases dramatically. One restraining factor is the economy – a dissertation costs according to what I have experienced 20 000 - 40 000. I cannot guarantee these figures, but it is not cheap. It is not just any student who lives on noodles who can order exams like this, but if you like you can take a small class perspective on this. This is a restraining factor for many students. I do not need to spend more time, but I would like to end by raising the finger of warning. Increasingly teaching takes place in English, and that is the greatest risk factor. As long as exams are dealt with in the Swedish language, this is a natural protection against these companies, as they themselves cannot handle the Swedish language. I would like to raise the finger of warning so that the government, and future governments, keep an eye on this and so that we do not escalate on this kind of cheating. There are many different types of cheating, but this is a new type of hard to detect cheating that we should keep an eye on.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-310	Madam President, I would like Cheating is indeed the opposite of everything that research and education represent. That is unacceptable, and it must be fought – I do not want there to be any doubt about this. In this context, I would like to remind you of a number of measures taken by the government in relation to other types of cheating in higher education and research. The cheating on the university exam is one such question. Of course, cheating on the university test undermines the legitimacy of the whole test, so it is extremely serious. Here it should not be possible to cheat past and take a place from someone else, who has studied hard and wants to use the university test to get into a dream education where there is tough competition for the places. The government has therefore taken a number of measures to eliminate cheating on the university test. Nowadays you can be turned off from the test for two years if you get caught cheating. The University and Higher Education Council can now also require that the test results be given on honour and conscience. This means that if you leave an untrue task, you can be sentenced to a fine and a prison sentence for untrue certification under the Criminal Code. The Government has also given priority to tackling a number of measures relating to cheating and ethics in research. No one should have doubts about Swedish research and healthcare. No patient should have to risk having treatments based on research fraud. Not least in these times, it is important to keep track of the research being carried out, not least in the case of covid-19, with a decision from the Ethics Review Board and that you have permission for your research. These measures are important both for individual patients and for confidence in research. There is a new regime for dealing with misconduct in research that has been in force since 1 January 2020. There is also a law on responsibility for good research practice in which, together with the Riksdag, we have clarified responsibilities and increased penalties for ethical testing and research related to people. It is clear here that the head of research will take steps to ensure that the research is carried out with ethical approval. I have also made it clear in the dialogue that is taking place with universities during this time that I expect – and that we expect – a lot of colleges and universities. They also take a huge responsibility, for example, when it comes to the expansion of higher education places to meet a labour market that is failing because of the coronapandemine and when it comes to the transition to being able to conduct teaching based on the recommendations of the Public Health Agency. In all this, I have also made it clear that I expect universities and colleges to be particularly attentive and to take steps to keep the cheating away even now under the coronapndemin. This applies, in particular, to teaching and examinations.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-317	Madam President, I would like The government mentioned misconduct in research, and I intend to come back to that later. Well, that's a really big question, actually, a lot bigger than this one. I believe that this is a much greater problem than what I mentioned in today's interpellation, and I intend to come back to that issue. There is much to do; I think that is where the real problem lies. This is a problem in the making, so to speak. Irregularity in research is a much bigger and more serious issue. This applies not only to misconduct, but also to carelessness and poorly carried out research where the researcher or research team has not intended to cheat but has been careless and has taken shortcuts. This is perhaps an even greater problem than mere cheating. When it comes to fraud with essay mills and misconduct in research, problems eventually arise for the public – the end user. The products of this are inferior, so to speak. No one in here wants to be treated by a doctor who has cheated on a lot of exams and thus has knowledge gaps. If you don't have a knowledge gap, you don't have to cheat. You cheat because you can't pass the test. And I don't think any of us want to be exposed to such a doctor, for example.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-320	Madam President, I would like Once again: Cheating, whether in terms of education, university tests or research, is totally unacceptable regardless of form, point. I would like to remind you once again that universities and colleges are working hard and will work hard to identify cheating in various forms and to act clearly if it emerges. It is also necessary to work on prevention, which is about providing information about and making clear what is permitted and what is not. I also think that this is very important, not least for the students, when more teaching and tests take place digitally. All levels must be involved in this, including higher education, because it is they who have the ultimate responsibility and must be on their toes. I would also like to remind you that students and researchers have a great responsibility not to break the rules that exist. After all, cheating violates our common social contract, which is based on the fact that we are all doing the right thing and following the common rules. We can have as many regulations as we like, but in the end we need to have morals and the right values. Having said that, I am closely following developments with the responsible authorities. And I do not rule out the possibility of future measures, just as we have done in the case of research fraud and cheating at the university test.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-324	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked me whether I support the idea of keeping a national or European register of racial or ethnic origin, whether I will work to clarify what the concept is and what I will do to make sure that the involvement of such persons does not go against the wishes of members of the ethnic group. Ludvig Aspling has also asked me how I feel about a proposal that politicians interfere in how journalists report on issues related to multiculturalism. The issue is addressed in the context of the Communication entitled "Equality Union: The EU Action Plan against Racism 2020 – 2025" presented by the European Commission on 18 September 2020. The Commission's Action Plan aims to put forward concrete measures to combat racism and discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity within the Union. On 23 October, the Government submitted a factual memorandum on the matter to the Riksdag. I will also deliberate with the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on this matter. The government welcomes the Commission's initiative and shares the analysis and conclusions presented in the Action Plan at an overall level. The fight against racism and discrimination is of great importance in all Member States. I look forward to discussing this important issue with the responsible committee in order to reach a Swedish position. In the Action Plan, the Commission highlights the importance of data that can provide a picture of people's experiences of discrimination as well as of the structural aspects of racism and discrimination. The Commission therefore intends to take steps towards a coherent approach to the collection of data on equality, in particular with regard to data broken down by ethnic origin, and invites Member States to improve the collection of such data. It is very welcome that the need for knowledge of people's living conditions linked to racism and discrimination is highlighted. At the same time, work on data that can provide such knowledge is complex and it is essential to maintain the Member States' scope to act out of the national situation as well as the conditions and needs of the state. This type of data contains sensitive data, and work on such data must always be done with the utmost respect for ethical aspects and in accordance with legal rules, including on data protection. The protection of personal integrity must be maintained. The Swedish view is, and has long been, that it is absolutely essential that such data can never be linked to individuals. There are ways of avoiding the processing of sensitive personal data, and these are the methods that need to be explored further. The EU Agency for Fundamental Rights (FRA) has an important role to play in creating a good knowledge base with comparable data from all Member States. The Commission highlights the importance of having a good dialogue with different stakeholders, including civil society and representatives of different groups. I agree that such a dialogue is necessary for both the European institutions and national authorities to have a broader basis for decision-making. Individual representatives of organisations naturally express their views, and these may differ. That is why inclusive dialogue is so important to highlight a wide range of experiences. The Commission's communication also states that stereotypes based on ethnic origin which are spread through the media, education, culture and sport should be countered. Not least the c ovid-19 pandemic has given many examples of how such stereotypes are used in spreading disinformation, threats and hatred. The Communication announces, inter alia, that it intends to develop seminars bringing together journalists, civil society organisations and representatives of minorities to discuss such stereotypes. The Commission also notes that independent media characterised by diversity is essential for a balanced democratic debate. I agree with the view that efforts to increase knowledge in order to avoid stereotypes based on ethnic origin are important in the work against racism and hate crime, while independent media are a key component of our democratic society. Let me be clear that the government never accepts interference with the independence of the media, which is not the case in this case either. Overall, it is the government's view that the Commission's Action Plan provides support and tools for strengthening work against racism across the Union.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-332	Madam President, I would like The Commission has therefore drawn up a draft action plan against racism to which the Government is in favour and on which we are a little less in favour, and that is why we are here today. The reason we are sceptical is that the plan is motivated by pure untruths and junk science, which are then used to highlight proposals that are seriously ill-considered. According to the Commission, this plan is needed because of the hypothesis of so-called unconscious racism, which is believed to be the cause of inequalities in society. The hypothesis was formulated in the early 90's by two scientists called Anthony Greenwald and Mahzarin Banaji. Both of these researchers have since acknowledged that this hypothesis is not correct and that the test they developed to measure how much unconscious racism a person carries, called AIT, shows nothing at all, but that this is just nonsense. They have had to admit it afterwards. However, the test remains online. It consists of a type of primitive psychoanalysis in a cheap app. I would really recommend to the Government to go in and take the test myself. I did it last night just to see how much unconscious racism I carry. The answer I got was: Your responses suggested a light automatic preference for black people over white people. I wonder whether the Government is prepared to take it into account because at least I am not carrying this unconscious racism that is being written about. I have also put a written question to the Government whether she can highlight any scientific evidence that unconscious racism actually exists. The answer I got was that no, she can't, because no such data exists. So, there is no scientific support for this theory. The Government knows that this is the case, but she still believes that the hypothesis of unconscious racism should form the basis for measures that cannot be described as anything but extreme. For this reason, the Union shall combat stereotypes by directing media reporting involving minorities in order, inter alia, to promote awareness and balanced stories about Muslims and Islam. The work will also be carried out in cooperation with representatives of different minorities in terms of racial or ethnic origin. That this is incompatible with the principle of free independent media is, of course, quite obvious to every thinking person. In a democratic state politicians should not decide over and censor media that report negatively about Islam, no matter how much the Government would like to do so. I also respond to the assertion that minorities cannot participate in the democratic process in the same way as everyone else without having to be represented by a representative of a group of racial or ethnic origin, as stated in the Commission communication. This is nonsense. Most minorities or persons belonging to minorities have no desire whatsoever for this. I would really like the Government to reconsider a little here. We have a big problem with so-called clan leaders in Sweden. We shall not invite them and give them an official position in this discussion. I want the Government to explain the following. Why does she believe that media reporting on Islam and Muslims should be governed by politicians? Does she think that this should happen in all EU countries, for example in Hungary? Does she stand by the hypothesis of unconscious racism, even if the scientists who once put forward this hypothesis no longer stand by it? Further: How does the Government define the concept of race? This is the most important thing of all, I think. The concept appears in 69 places in this document. If the Government is unable to give a definition of this concept, she admits that she is prepared to sign a document that she does not understand the meaning of.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-344	Madam President, I would like Where do I start? So I am asked by a Swedish democrat about the independence of the media. I have to say that I am a little amazed at this, because I am very concerned about the independence of the media, also here in Sweden. We have politicians who are working hard to reduce confidence in the media. There are politicians who want to call public service managers to the Culture Committee because they do not like what has been published. We have politicians in the MP's party who want journalists to be punished with a suspended salary or fired if they are biased. I see a great need to stand up for journalists' ability to freely review power, to hold us politicians to account and to be able to operate independently a journalism where we politicians keep arm's length away. I see how this space is threatened both in Sweden and around Europe. I and the government will always stand up for the independence of the media. What this is about is that the European Commission has put forward a proposal for how we can work to combat the racism that exists across Europe. Part of this is to offer knowledge of stereotypes, for example, because we can all bear prejudices of various kinds. It is, of course, entirely voluntary for journalists to take part in this. No one will force journalists to take part in a seminar and take part in awareness-raising activities, but it is something that the media themselves choose. However, I am of the opinion that knowledge is never wrong. We need to constantly learn and develop, including in politics. It can make us all better and sharper and take us further in the societal challenges we want to solve. I feel that we are discussing the issue of racism or not, but it may be that I have interpreted the Member of Parliament wrong. My absolute view is that we have challenges with racism both here in Sweden and around the world and that it is important that we take steps in different ways to combat racism. Last parliamentary term, the government adopted an action plan against racism with a range of measures for what can be done in Sweden. The European Commission is now also presenting an action plan against racism. It is positive that this plan is being presented and that there is a debate on racism and discrimination and what can be done in all Member States to maintain the principle of equal value for all. There's a job to do here. No child in any society should grow up and be afraid of being treated as less worth based on, for example, appearance or belonging to an ethnic minority. All children and adults should feel safe in school and in public space, and they should feel confident that they have politicians who stand up for the equal value of all people. I therefore think it is positive that we have an action plan and that there is a debate about what we can do to do better here in Sweden too.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-353	Madam President, I would like I note that the Government is ducking for all three issues. I guess I'm gonna have to take it for a living because she doesn't have a clue what this is really about. There is another proposal in this draft action plan that is in many ways even worse than what I highlighted in my first speech, and that is the establishment of a European register of people's racial or ethnic origin to expose discrimination. This proposal is incompatible with personal integrity and, in addition, an obvious security risk. Above all, however, the aim is wrong from the outset. Let me take an example that is close to me, namely, my own family. My children have a parent with a background on the British Isles, in Western Europe and Scandinavia, and a parent who is three-quarters Japanese and a quarter ainu, which is an indigenous population located in Japan and Russia. In my case, speaking as the Green Party about racial or ethnic origin is completely meaningless, and we are not unique. To measure racial or ethnic origin in today's society, as you suggest, is often completely meaningless. Even if the Green Party's racial concept were useful, it would not show anything that is interesting. The starting point of the EU plan is that if there are differences in, for example, income between groups, this is always due to discrimination. There can be no other factors involved. But let me take one example: people born in Somalia. I don't mind Somalis, but I have to take an example. We all know that this group has a lower income than the average in Sweden. The problems in Somalia, for example, with low education, long-term civil war, a strong religious tradition that is not very constructive and, in many respects, a backward view of women obviously plays a role and makes people in this group have lower incomes. This is not due to discrimination. For example, the discrimination hypothesis does not explain why people from Eritrea, who are close to Somalia, earn an average of SEK 84,000 more per year than people from Somalia. They serve almost as much as people from Finland and more than people from Poland. If we look at the facts about income differences, we see that skin color is not the crux of the matter, as the Green Party claims. It doesn't make much difference. Madam President, I would like The real aim of the action plan is not to combat racism but to rule by dividing. The hypothesis of structural racism, or unconscious racism, serves as an alibi for those politicians who have invited millions of people to move to Sweden without a thought of where these people should live or what they should work with. The aim is thus to transfer responsibility for the integration disaster we have in Sweden from responsible ministers to ordinary completely innocent Swedes. The hypothesis of unconscious racism, or structural racism as you sometimes call it, is the explanation you make that we have great differences in, for example, income. I believe that the use of this model of explanation is a large part of the reason for the very gross and unprovoked hate crimes that the majority population in Sweden often suffer, precisely because they feel that they are exposed to this type of racism – when the explanation can really be a completely different one. I would therefore like the Government to give a more detailed picture of how she thinks about this. I'd like a multi-road analysis. How much of the income differences between groups in Sweden does she think is due to unconscious racism, and how much depends on other factors?
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-362	Madam President, I would like It is completely unserious to ask such a question. There are many different parameters that can be the reason why someone has lower pay. You can't put a number on the table like that. It is clear to me that our society has problems with racism and discrimination. My big question back to Ludvig Aspling and the Swedish Democrats is therefore: Do we have problems with racism in Sweden, or is everyone's equal value respected? Doesn't it matter who you are, how you look or what background you have? I would like an answer to that. Do you deny the racism and discrimination that exist throughout society and that affect people's living conditions? Have you read the testimony from parents of African children about how they have experienced parts of their schooling and what they describe? I find it terrible stories to read, not least when it comes to children. These are things that go right into the heart. No child in Sweden should have to doubt that she, he or she is worth as much as others. All children are worth the same. My question back is: do we have problems with racism, or do the Swedish Democrats deny the racism and discrimination that exist in society?
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-366	Madam President, I would like I would recommend the Government to read the interpellation and what we are here to discuss. Every time a person is subjected to some kind of unfair treatment--it may be discrimination on the grounds of skin colour or any other circumstance-- it's a problem and something that I definitely think society should fix. But this is not what we are here to discuss, but we are here to discuss unconscious racism. That is what the Commission's draft action plan says about, and that is what I say has very little scientific support. I asked the question in my first speech. Can the Government point here and now to a single scientific study that proves that unconscious racism is a real phenomenon that exists in the real world? The Government has another speech, and I am excited to wait for the answer. With regard to people who are being treated badly, as the Council of State has just raised in its third speech, we are of course in agreement. No one in this House defends it, and the number of people who hold that kind of opinion in Sweden is very small. We know from surveys that the proportion of people in Sweden who have actual racist views is somewhere around 2%. The University of Gävle has conducted a study on this. But this is not what we are here to discuss, but what we are here to discuss is unconscious racism, which I believe is junk science that has no strong scientific support whatsoever. As for the fact that there are other factors behind income differentials, it is interesting that the Government is now fleeing its first position and completely discarding its own action plan in the lake. There's nothing there about the other circumstances. The government's plan against racism and similar hate crime states that if there are differences in income between groups, it is due to discrimination, point end. The Government should check out what is in her own document before she comes and talks in the Swedish Parliament.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-370	Madam President, I would like Do we have structural racism in society? Yes, we do. For example, there is a report from Uppsala University looking at Afrosvenska's situation in the labour market. There you can see that Afroschens as a group need to have a doctoral education in order to get into the same disposable income as the rest of the population who have a three-year post-secondary education, to take an example. This does not mean that racism breaks through in each individual case, but if we lift our eyes we see that there are structural differences between people here in Sweden too, and I hate it. There was also a question of a national European register, and I was going to touch on that a little. There are no proposals from the Commission in their action plan against racism when it comes to linking individuals to data, but it should be anonymised. We need more knowledge in society about how people and different groups of people have it. It is extremely important, but it can also be sensitive to link it to an individual. From Sweden we have a restrictive view of statistics and data collection if it is linked to ethnicity. The government has no reason to reconsider this approach in this context. However, it is possible to get more knowledge with existing statistics and look at how different groups of people have it in society. I see it as an extremely important democratic basic task to look at what opportunities there are for people in Sweden to create a good life when there are structural differences between people as a group. Then we need to drill in what these differences depend on. They may be due to different things. Then we need to get started and work and do something about it, because society will give everyone good living conditions. Not least children must have good growing-up conditions.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-373	Madam President, I would like Mikael Strandman has asked me whether I believe that Swedish legislation on political discrimination in the event of public appointment complies with the general declarations on human rights as expressed in the UN Declaration of Human Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights. If the answer is no, Mikael Strandman wonders whether I intend to work to ensure that refusal of employment in the public sector on grounds of political opinion is punishable, as is the case for the existing grounds of discrimination under the Discrimination Act. Sweden has ratified and is thus legally bound by a large number of international conventions on human rights. The principle of non-discrimination is central to several of these. As a general rule, the Convention's commitments to Swedish law are implemented by the legislator in order to comply with the requirements of the Convention. As an example, I would like to highlight the Convention on Civil and Political Rights. It provides that States Parties shall respect and ensure the rights of each of the Convention without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. In connection with Sweden's ratification of the Convention, the Government concluded that the statutory prohibition of discrimination is in line with Swedish legal principles. The ECHR applies as a Swedish law. In addition, it is a clear requirement in our constitution that administrative authorities and others performing public administration functions should take into account the equality of all persons before the law and respect objectivity and impartiality. Furthermore, decisions on state employment shall be based only on factual grounds, such as merit and skill. Sweden should be a country where all people should be able to live in freedom without being subjected to discrimination. The objective of the government's anti-discrimination policy is a society free of discrimination. The Discrimination Act provides protection against discrimination regardless of gender, transgender identity or expression, ethnicity, religion or other belief, disability, sexual orientation or age. Protection covers a large number of areas of society and includes both private and public actors. The issue of protection against discrimination in the Non-Discrimination Act should cover more grounds than these seven were discussed in the preparatory work on the law. However, the most appropriate solution was considered to be based on the grounds of discrimination proposed by the parliamentary anti-discrimination inquiry. Moreover, these grounds correspond mainly to the grounds protected by the EU Equal Treatment Directives. There are currently no plans for a new review of the grounds of discrimination in the law.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-378	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answers! The UN Declaration and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights can be said to be a manual for how a country ensures that democracy and the protection of human rights are maintained. The initial texts list the grounds for non-discrimination. They are ethnicity, sexual orientation, religious beliefs and so on, and also political opinion. When Sweden ratified the conventions and transposed them into its legislation, most things were included, but political views were left out. This is bad, because when the conventions were written, there was a reason why political views were included as grounds for discrimination. It was known from history, especially in the 20th century, how terrible the consequences are. When a country turns into a dictatorship, the power that has taken over almost invariably begins to persecute its political opponents. One way to do this is to exclude them completely from the authorities. Most often you start by taking over state-controlled media and harassing or banning oppositional media, and at the same time you ensure that your political opponents are excluded from public office. If you do this – if you have your people in the authorities and if you have control of the media – then you have control over the country. It was for this reason that political opinion was included as grounds for discrimination. I do not really know why Sweden did not adopt this very thing. It is an important basis for discrimination. However, it cannot be applied in the same case as the other grounds of discrimination. The other grounds for discrimination are universal, and they apply in all areas. Political perception as a basis for discrimination is a bit more tricky. In a democratic society, we have freedom of expression, and we have freedom of opinion. But we also have the right to respond to opinions and opinions, and we can deal with them quite roughly as long as they remain within a democratic framework. This makes it difficult to have a political view in the area of private law as a basis for discrimination. For example, an organisation working for the introduction of the euro in the country should not be forced to employ someone who may be an activist of the euro and so on. Neither can political parties be forced to employ political opponents to their offices. That is not what the international conventions refer to. If you read the text a little further down, you can see very clearly what they refer to with political opinion as a basis for discrimination, and that is precisely in the public sphere. This concerns the exercise of authority against the individual. But this also applies to access to a public service. If you read in the UN Declaration of Human Rights, Article 21, paragraph 2, states that everyone has the right of access to public service without being discriminated against in terms of political opinion. It is also stated in the European Convention on Human Rights. It is a major shortcoming in Sweden today that we have not adopted these clear positions, namely that political opinion must not be a basis for discrimination in the public sphere.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-387	Madam President, I would like These are important questions about the right of all people to make their voice heard and to express it also at a time when we see that the democratic space in the world is shrinking. There is something that worries me very much. These are therefore important issues. Our administrative authorities must, by law, respect objectivity and impartiality. According to the form of government, decisions on employment are to be based solely on factual grounds. It's about merit and skill. This is what I think should be at the heart of hiring. Is this person suitable for the task? Is it a person who has the skill to do the job? This is what should be at the heart of the issue. Then we live freely in a democracy where people should be able to express their own opinion. There may, of course, be cases when these two clashes. The honourable Member gave examples of this. I can highlight another example in terms of suitability assessment. If a person is looking for a job at an accommodation for people with disabilities and has expressed very strong funkofoba statements, it is very possible to think that this person is not suitable for such a job. Another example that one might imagine is a person who is a Nazi or a person who sympathises with violent Islamist extremism and who is looking for a job in a school. Then one could imagine that the headmaster makes the assessment that it is a person who is not suitable to be a teacher, a person who, for example, makes a difference between children, and that there is a great risk that this person will treat children in different ways or that there will be children who will not feel safe at school if there is a person there who, for example, agrees with violent Islamist views. That is why I think that what is in the form of government is also what should be at the centre, and that is suitability, skill and merit. When you take a job, you have an obligation to the employer. You get a salary to do a job. Then you also have a responsibility towards your employer to do this work in a good way. The employer is responsible to his employees. But the employees also have a responsibility and a task to do to the best of their ability.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-392	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I'm glad you brought this up. This is exactly what I knew you were going to bring up. It is, of course, a problem if a principal is forced to employ someone who is active Nazi, Islamist or revolutionary communist or belongs to an anti-democratic movement and is not at all suitable for teaching our children. But if there is no legislation in this area, at the other end, the political nomenclature of one country can use it to exclude all its political opponents, as happens in dictatorships. There is talk of the form of government here. It states that authorities should observe objectivity and neutrality in their activities. It's very vague writing. If, as a Swedish democrat, I were to apply for a job, perhaps as a teacher at a school, and the headmaster would deny me this position on the grounds that I am a Swedish democrat and that it does not go with the school's values, then this headmaster could do so without legal consequences. I would never be able to pursue a case in a public court about this, as I could do if it were one of the other grounds for discrimination that is recorded in the Discrimination Act. I would then be able to invoke it directly and initiate a legal process and obtain redress and damages. However, when it comes to discrimination against someone on the grounds of political opinion, there can never be a legal process on it in a public court. The only thing that can be done is to ask for a review of the decision at a higher level within the authority and for the authority to amend its decision if necessary. It is for this reason that political opinion as a basis for discrimination is contained in these international conventions, precisely because the political power should not make Carte blanche exclude its opponents from the authorities. With regard to violent anti-democratic groups that want to overthrow democracy, we now have an investigation in Parliament about how a ban could possibly be imposed. Finland has banned, among other things, NMR. We're looking at this now, and we don't know what the investigation is going to land in. But perhaps it would be possible to find something intermediate. Even if there is no ban, legislation may in some way stipulate that persons who are members of or sympathise with any of these organisations are not eligible for certain public services. But what we cannot do is use this legislation in the way that is done today and exclude people who are active in the Civil Society or in the Swedish Democrats. We got 17.5 percent in the last election. We have thousands of employees in municipal councils, municipal boards, boards and companies. Anyone who openly shows their political residence today risks not getting a job in the public domain on the basis of precisely their political opinion. This can therefore be done without them being able to obtain a judicial review. Should it be the exercise of authority, we still have the responsibility of the officials who come in. Then you can get a judicial review. If, for example, I do not receive a building permit because I am a Swedish Democrat, I could report it, and then official responsibility would come in and be able to regulate this legally. However, the recruitment procedure in the public sector does not fall within the remit of public authority against the individual, but it is outside this area. There is currently no legislation to be invoked.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-400	May I remind the honourable Member to speak through the President and not the due, but to use first and last names.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-401	Madam President, I would like I have also had a need to practice this. Thank you for reminding me. If you have applied for a government position, you have the opportunity to contact a special board, the National Board of Appeal, if you do not think that you have been treated fairly. Municipalities should also be based on merit, skill and suitability, i.e. factual grounds. That also applies to these. I think, of course, that workers' opportunities in the labour market can always be discussed and whether they should be strengthened in different ways. For example, what opportunities do you have for redressing an employer if you feel that something has not gone right? Both when it comes to employees and when people are looking for work, there are interesting issues to discuss in general. These are also, in many ways, highly topical issues. What I think is important in terms of principle is that, of course, it is precisely the suitability that should be at the centre of attention. There are examples of politicians who have expressed a great deal of racism, and one can of course see that, in some cases, an employer may judge that it is not appropriate for that particular person to work with them. This must be done in the individual workplace and on the basis of an individual assessment – but it should be about just the suitability. That's what's supposed to be the center of attention. I think that is extremely important. With regard to discrimination in general, I think that we need to discuss what means there are of redress with the anti-discrimination legislation we have, which is not very old. We have an investigation in progress right now that is reviewing the legislation on discrimination, as well as the possibilities of introducing stronger measures if employers, for example, do not work preventively against discrimination in the workplace. There must be consequences not to do so. I therefore believe that we have every reason to continue discussing how we can strengthen protection against discrimination and ensure that there are opportunities for people to obtain redress. With regard to the issue we are discussing at the moment, however, I think, of course, that it is the suitability of the task that should be at the centre of attention.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-408	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answers, Minister. It becomes very dangerous when you say that it should be the suitability of the work that determines. Who decides that? If a person considers me inappropriate by definition because I am a Swedish Democrat, should that be an acceptable reason? What you are saying about respect for objectivity and neutrality does not mean much to me unless we actually have legislation which states this and which provides the means of redress, legally in the courts, should this type of discrimination occur. After all, the Human Resources Boards and what you mentioned do not actually involve judicial review in a public court. For example, if I were to be denied a job because of my religious beliefs or my skin colour – whether it was open or if I only suspected it – I would be able to pursue the process legally. I could sue the authority or school in civil court, the Court of Appeal or the Labour Court. However, as discriminated against for my political opinion, I would not be able to do anything. I have here in my hand a bundle of papers from the time I worked as a national ombudsman for the Swedish Democrats. There are a lot of different cases where people have been openly denied employment in the public domain, with reference to their political opinion – and I cannot do anything about it, because there is no legal act that would back up my legal proceedings in court to give the person redress or damages. I think we should look at this. One could include an additional paragraph in the Discrimination Act to include political opinion as a basis for discrimination in terms of public access – it could be a public employment or something else. Then, of course, you have to solve what you say with violent organizations and so on.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-413	Madam President, I would like These are, of course, important issues to discuss. How can people's opportunities in the labour market be strengthened in different ways? Surely it is always valuable to discuss also what individuals' opportunities to speak in different ways look like. However, it is constitutionally protected that appointments should take place on a factual basis, and I think it is extremely important to stand up for this. We generally need to work against discrimination in society and strengthen protection against discrimination, but it is clear that appointment should be based on suitability. That is why it is, of course, extremely important that all employers who are going to recruit employees only take into account the views of applicants in cases where these opinions would constitute an obstacle to carrying out the task in the manner required. That is when there may be reason to proceed with another applicant. So I think it is extremely important to stand up for this. Otherwise, I thank you for the exchange of views and for the discussion.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-416	Madam President, I would like Martin Kinnunen has asked me what I intend to do to ensure that, under the current pandemic, sport has a level playing field with other industries in order to carry out its activities. He has also asked why I believe that there is reason to change the distribution of aid to sport so that the acquisition of player contracts becomes a factor. From the date of the entry into force of the regulation prohibiting public gatherings and public events, I have had an intensive and constructive dialogue with representatives of the sports movement and have listened to the impact of the pandemic and the restrictions imposed on sport. Throughout the pandemic, it has also been important for me as Minister of Sport to ensure that a dialogue is conducted between the sports movement and the Public Health Agency. During the autumn, the Government has worked towards a more sustainable and accurate regulation that enables gatherings and gatherings, while limiting the risk of spread of infection in a satisfactory way. As the interpellant knows, on 14 October the Government commissioned the Public Health Agency to continuously analyse the need for, and conditions for, changes to the regulation prohibiting the holding of public gatherings and public events. In order to support responsible actors in implementing arrangements and other activities as infectiously as possible, the Swedish Public Health Agency has also been tasked with reviewing existing or, alternatively, developing new general advice or recommendations on how different types of arrangements and other activities can be safely implemented. Following a close dialogue with the Public Health Agency, the Government decided on 22 October to introduce additional exemptions in the regulation prohibiting the holding of public gatherings and public events. The exception applies to arrangements with sitting audiences, and the maximum number of participants has been set at 300. The purpose of the extra crisis support for sport, as with the crisis aid allocated during the spring, is to mitigate the economic impact of the coronapandemmin on sports activities throughout the country, especially for children and young people. However, we are making some clarifications to ensure that support meets sport as effectively as possible, especially in view of the conditions and challenges already present in the sports movement. The support will help sports associations survive. In addition to the loss of revenue requirements, the distribution of the aid may also take into account the extent to which the association has benefited from other aid and the needs that exist. Buying and selling players is, if properly managed, a natural and unproblematic part of the elite activities of major team sports. The government does not impose any condition against recruiting players. However, we make it clear that support should be based on needs. Spending large sums or incuring large costs for the future can be one way to show that you have less need than other associations that are close to going under. Having said that, however, it is ultimately the sports movement that, through the National Sports Federation and in dialogue with the special sports federations, develops detailed criteria and determines where the money ends up.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-423	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Covid-19 is a sinister virus, and things are constantly changing. Since I put this interpellation, some things have happened. The government has removed the limit of 50 participants at public gatherings and set a new limit of 300, as the infection situation improved. Now you will also work more with regional recommendations. This is a clear change in the government's strategy since last spring. I will try not to go into too much on the issue of disease control itself, even if it becomes difficult. But this is a change in the strategy of the government last spring, when it did not want specific regional measures. The government then took the initiative itself to alleviate the audience restriction. There was first talk of 500. The decision landed at 300. Since then there have been a number of regional decisions, which means that the 50 limit has in principle been reintroduced for most people. Perhaps it is not appropriate to stand here in the speaker's chair and argue for more audience in the arenas right now. But you have to be able to discuss this from a more long-term perspective. We may well be standing here in a year's time and have about the same problems in society. After all, we do not know what will happen to vaccines and the spread of infection in the future. We simply have to agree that the infection situation can continue to be problematic for several months, perhaps years. It may not be possible to defend opening up to freer audience rules right now. But you have to be able to plan for better scenarios. It must also be possible to reflect on the different rules of the game in society. Is it really impossible to have a more consistent line? When I leave my son on a little ball, we parents are told not to even stand there and watch. My daughter's dance practices are cancelled, as well as all competitive sports for children and young people and even adult amateurs. Madam President, I would like At the same time, I can go out in the evenings and watch people party at the restaurant. That is enough responsibility for itself. There are no clear restrictions on which activities may be open or not. You can also see that once the kitchen at the restaurant is closed, no one takes that responsibility. I haven't done very well. But my spontaneous picture is that people don't follow the recommendations when they get too drunk. It's not surprising. At the gym it is possible to group practice as usual. People can also continue to be squeezed into the subway in rush hour traffic, not to mention the shopping that is also going on exactly as usual. It's like it's sport and the non-profit sector that's gonna take the hardest hit. In fact, it does not even allow us to take responsibility, but it is only forbidden there. How does the minister reflect on this? Is it reasonable that it is precisely the non-profit sector and children and young people who should take the most responsibility? Madam President, I would like I would like to return to the main issue of the interpellation: the restrictions on audiences. The government took the initiative to change the restrictions after there had been a campaign in the media, especially from such as Jonas Gardell and more fine cultural elements. It feels like the adaptation was also for the theatres, for the comedians, for Jonas Gardell and not for the popular elite sport. Was it a factor that was taken in? Did they discuss what conditions sport needs?
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-432	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Martin Kinnunen for the question and for the commitment that I feel he has for the conditions of the elite sport and sports movement during the pandemic. It's a commitment that I share. I think I speak for myself as well as for large parts of the Swedish people and this House when I say that I wish it was possible with a larger audience than today in our arenas. The pandemic hits very hard, not least against sport. After a long work, we were able to make the decision on exceptions to the Order Act for sitting audiences with 300 participants. I have had a close dialogue with sport throughout the pandemic. In all these talks, the message has actually been to see that it is a pandemic, and the non-profit movement is prepared to assume its responsibilities if necessary and to make recommendations in its various activities. It also accepts that there may be closures. But you want there to be a more accurate regulation. I have been in complete agreement with the sports movement on this and have worked to take this step. It has also been said that one would rather take one step, at least so that one can get started and show that one can take responsibility as an organizer. We sent the exemption proposal for referral to the Public Health Agency. They suggested setting a ceiling of 500. That's what they said at the beginning of September. Then the Public Health Agency asked us in October to wait for the decision. I wish, of course, that we could have taken the decision already on 1 October, when the intention was to take it. But we were told to wait to see where the infection would go. In the end, the Public Health Agency recommended that we set the ceiling of 300. I'm glad we have this exception. Even though the regions are now forced to back down from the opening, it is there as a basic exception so that sport in those parts of the country where we do not have such a spread is given the opportunity to demonstrate that this responsibility can be assumed. I am convinced that you can; you have careful plans for how it can be done. When it comes to being able to open up to 300, this benefits not only some parts of the culture. For large parts of outdoor sports, children's and young people's sports, women's football and women's hockey, for example, it matters even with 300. I think everyone has told me that it is at least a first step. Then it is clear that in the long term, when it comes to a large arena, there would be the possibility of receiving more audiences, with separate admissions and directives on how to get to the arena and how to deal with inputs and emissions. However, the assessment has been that it has not been possible to decide on exceptions based on percentages linked to the Order Act. It is a criminal law, and it must be clear. You can suffer both a fine and, by extension, a prison sentence if you break it. The police must be able to control this. For that, a new pandemic law is needed, and that work is under way. I think it is important that we do not sit around waiting for this, but, as Martin Kinnunen says, see what we can do and prepare for a scenario where there is the opportunity to receive more audience again. We all long for that. We have a mission to the Swedish Public Health Agency to regularly return to us with an assessment of the ceiling. We will also look at other parts, such as outdoor sports. And we have set up an audience council so that we can regularly have a dialogue with the sports movement, the culture and the event industry on audience issues. We must continue to do this. We must look at what is needed here and now in view of the spread of the disease and certainly also what we can do in the future when we have a different situation. There is a need for more flexible rules, and sport needs better opportunities to receive audiences. We have taken a step in that direction.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-442	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister– that was a welcome message. I have not previously understood that a more flexible regulatory framework should also be investigated within the framework of pandemic legislation, which is now finally under way. Looking around Europe, I see different, more flexible regulations. For example, during the last weekend in Germany, football could be played with audiences of up to 20 percent of the seats in the arena if there were approved disease prevention plans and the infection in the region was below a certain level. This is an example of a flexible regulatory framework that takes into account the size of the arenas and the regional differences that exist. That would be a way forward for Sweden too. Although it is welcome that a pandemic law is now being investigated and developed, which could possibly be adapted to these circumstances, it is nevertheless regrettable that it is taking a very long time. This should therefore be completed this summer – then we have had the pandemic for over a year if it is still ongoing. I think it is worth mentioning that this is regrettable. Madam President, I would like In my interpellation, I also referred to financial support for elite sports. This was due to a feature of Swedish Radio, where it was mentioned that the clubs wasted money on expensive player contracts. In the article it was presented as that the Swedish Sports Federation had agreed to a demand from the government to now distribute the money differently. Then it is also a welcome message from the Minister that the government has no clear guidelines for how the National Sports Federation and, for example, the Football or Hockey Federation should distribute the money to the clubs, but that it is still the special sports federations that decide where the money is most useful, given that the money will of course compensate for the loss of revenue due to the pandemic. This is a welcome message.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-446	Madam President, I would like It is clear that from the perspective of sport, it is a long way ahead when you start talking about a new pandemic team next summer. Just as Martin Kinnunen says, it will be investigated what this law can mean. A legislative process takes time. Basically, I think that we should really be happy that democracy takes time to produce this kind of thing. Other parts of the Pandemic Act are about whether you can limit other activities. I also think it is important that we work on this urgently, with respect for the fact that the legislative process needs to take its course and that it needs to be made legally secure and correct. Until then, given that the infection situation enables it of course, we will continue to see if you can take further steps linked to the Order Act. With regard to this with a certain percentage of the arena, the assessment has been that it is not possible on the basis of the law we have, which is linked to criminal law. Here the legislation is very different in different parts of the world. It's gonna be a problem. I can also look at solutions in other countries, but we have to deal with the legislation we have and will now try to make the best of the situation. This is one reason why the government has allocated large targeted support to sport – we see that sport has been severely affected by the restrictions. We value our sports movement, both the breadth of activities for children and young people and, of course, the elite. It is important to say in this House – I have said it before – that this is connected. We have an independent sports movement in Sweden, which we will protect, where the breadth and the elite are connected, both operationally and economically. An elite team in hockey can be the engine of the whole child and youth activities in a region, both for the inspiration you feel as a player when you have something to aim for and because it finances a large part of the youth and children's activities as well as other parts and branches of the association. It is therefore essential that we do what we can to ensure that as much of the sport as possible can get through this. In principle, we have doubled state aid for sport this year. Regular support is around 2 billion, and now we have 11⁄2 billion extra emergency aid this year. Short-term lay-off has also been very important for many, not least elite teams. It will certainly be important to move forward as well. The Swedish Sports Federation will now conduct a comprehensive analysis of the economic needs of the sports movement both next and next year. Unfortunately, this is not one thing that will pass from one day to another, but the economic consequences will remain. I will receive this report from the Swedish Sports Federation at the beginning of next year so that we can take a concerted approach to the economic consequences. A call for proposals is already under way, and I think it was this morning that there was a report on how many associations have applied for the latest round of support that the Swedish Sports Federation has awarded for the third quarter. It turns out that the majority of those who have applied are football clubs. Even hockey and a lot of exercise runs have been searched. This is also the picture I get. The economic needs of the Elitlagen will become more and more visible. As I said, we have not written anything specific about appointments, but we have said that consideration can be given to needs. I think it is important that when the independent sports movement is to distribute the subsidies – the losses are much greater – there is an opportunity for the Swedish Sports Federation to base itself on needs. This has to be discussed with the special sports federations. It has done so and set out principles for this. I will of course follow how this works, because it is important to me that the money goes where it is needed at its best to ensure the survival of sport throughout our country.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-456	Madam President, I would like The Minister talks about needs, and that is of course positive but also a little scary sometimes when politicians talk about the needs of companies or associations. In fact, associations and sports stock companies, which are also at times involved, may know better than politicians how to use their funds. It may also be that the Swedish Sports Federation feels that it has received a signal from politics without there being a sharp decision and may feel that this must be launched, which then means that the clubs and associations are restricted in different ways. This may not be appropriate, for it is difficult to understand all the different scenarios that an elite sports club may face. This may involve an existing player contract that becomes worthless if, for example, the player is long-term injured and needs to be replaced. You might have bought some very bad player contracts and you need to invest in new ones so you don't fall out and maybe go bankrupt. It is a tough business that the clubs are in. What is a need and what is not it is difficult for outsiders to like. As little do Swedish politicians know if Volvo Trucks should use the conversion aid to invest in a particular machine or in expensive or cheaper consultants and so on. Madam President, I would like Referring to football fans and clubs to the fact that legislation puts a stop to yourself when you are in a government position and can change the legislation may not feel good. But even if it is late, it is good that work is now under way. It may allow for a more flexible management of the pandemic, so that the conditions of sport can be made easier.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-461	Madam President, I would like We are well aware of how hard the pandemic and the 50th border have hit Swedish sport. We are equally aware that the increase to 300 will continue to be worrying for the large public sports and sports races. In addition, we are now seeing how the pandemic is taking off again, with further consequences. However, the fact that we took the step and raised to 300 will make a difference to a large part of sport, if it is possible to have it as a basis regionally. As Martin Kinnunen says, there are no simple solutions; these are complex issues. I am protecting our independent sports movement, and we should not regulate subsidies in detail. On the other hand – and here I think the sports movement agrees with me – they want to take responsibility, both for the pandemic and for their financial situation. I know you do, too. You look at both the revenue and the cost figures. The state's support during this year has been very important. I will follow the developments and see in front of me that we will have to continue to support the sports movement in the future in order to get through this. This applies to both wide-ranging and elite sports, because they are closely linked. The Swedish Public Health Agency has now been given a clear mandate to provide us with ongoing information on what we can do in the future, both about what current legislation allows and what the contamination situation allows. Then, in the long term, we need new legislation. I would also like to say that the Swedish Sports Federation has done a good job in distributing the aid. I know that there has been a broad dialogue on the criteria in which different parts of the sports movement have been involved. It is right for me that crisis support should also take into account where the needs are, based on how the sports movement defines it, so that we do not lose essential and supporting parts of our sports movement. We will protect it in the future, both the elite and the breadth. Thank you for a constructive discussion!
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-467	Madam President, I would like Vasiliki Tsouplaki has asked me whether there have been changes in regulations or in instructions to the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society, MUCF, which justify a new direction. Vasiliki Tsouplaki has also asked me what measures I have taken to anchor the new rules of the civil society in a democratic process, and if I take any further action. I share the questioner's view on the importance of a free and independent civil society with a variety of organisations, activities and voices. It is a prerequisite for a well-functioning democracy. To ensure the existence of an independent civil society, the state supports non-profit organisations financially. Children's and young people's organisations play a major role in young people's faith in themselves, in the future and in society. The fact that young people throughout the country have the opportunity to organise and influence democracy is at the heart of the government's youth policy. The state grant is an important tool for achieving this. Therefore, the government has proposed in an additional amending budget and in the budget proposal for 2021 that the state grant to children's and young people's organisations should increase by SEK 50 million in 2020 – 2022. The grant to children's and young people's organisations is governed by the Regulation (2011:65) on State grants to children's and young people's organisations. It shows that a children's and young people's organisation should be democratically structured to receive benefits. This applies both to national organisations and to organisations at local level. It is in the interests of both government and civil society to safeguard the legitimacy of benefit systems. It is therefore important that the regulations governing the granting of grants to civil society lay down conditions for, for example, democratic building. This is also why it is important for the authorities to be well placed to administer and control the subsidies in order to comply with the conditions laid down in the regulations. Madam President, I would like The government has not made any changes to the regulation on state grants to children's and young people's organisations in recent years. The government has also not changed MUCF's instructions since 2018. However, the Government has increased MUCF's administrative grant in order to strengthen the work with grant management – this in the light of proposals submitted in the agency's budget base and in Statskontoret's government analysis of MUCF. One consequence of this is that the agency can carry out more thorough checks. With regard to the issue of dialogue, I know that the Authority today has extensive interaction with civil society organisations, as the Authority's instructions indicate that the Authority should have.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-474	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Culture and Democracy for the answer to my interpellation. I am pleased that we share the view that we should have a strong and independent association life in Sweden. But it must not stop at fine words. We have had a situation in which several of the authorities that distribute the association grants are moving towards increased detailed management and come up with unreasonable rules on how an association should be organised in order to receive state aid. These are rules which, as I see it, are not in line with the intentions of the proposals and regulations on which the contributions are based, and they run counter to a hundred years of association practice. I'm worried. In pursuit of the legitimacy highlighted by the Minister, we have had a situation in which, due to concerns about making mistakes, we would rather convict than propose and where there is a lack of clear regulatory framework on these issues. There is a risk that different assessments will be made from case handler to case handler when it looks like that. This is a serious development, and it adversely affects the relationship between the state and union life. I do not expect the Minister here today to comment on individual government decisions – that would be wrong, of course – but I want us to be able to have a discussion on the principles: how much should the state interfere with the organisation of society? A democratic structure should mean that the statutes should ensure the influence of the members. But at present we have a situation in which the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society has decided to drive over hundreds of thousands of associations active in their interpretation of what a democratically built organisation means. Such major changes of principle should be rooted here in the Riksdag and preceded by a proper dialogue with the society. I will quickly give some examples of associations that have a structure that does not measure up to MUCF's democratic criteria: ABF, Amnesty International Sweden, Friskis and Svettis, the Swedish United Nations Association, the Youth League of the Center Party, the League of Young People, the League of Christian Democratic Youth, the Liberal Youth League, Pentecost Young, Youth's Sobriety League and Young Left. This is a selection. According to MUCF, what is wrong is that you have regulations that apply to the whole association, which are laid down at a national meeting with representatives from local organisations and which then apply to all members. MUCF wants all local associations to have their own statutes that are in principle equivalent to the national statutes. But what if they are not compatible? At the same time, the agency requires a federal management to keep a full eye on what is done locally living up to all the rules. How do you get this together? It's gonna be hard. I am concerned that the increase in subsidies now promised by the government will have to go to hiring inspectors in the associations rather than to more activities. Madam President, I would like One might wonder why this has not attracted more attention. It is quite remarkable how it has been done. Perhaps it is because it is mainly youth organisations that have got into the bullet hole here. If it had been about the organization of adults, perhaps there would have been a little more speed on the issue. But it's tougher. The Left Party is particularly concerned that young people receive support to organise themselves. By engaging in everything from outdoor life to culture and environmental issues, people contribute to the benefits of society and the well-being and development of young people. Members of the various associations are given meaningful leisure time, are taught about democratic processes and are given a chance to make their voices heard. This commitment must be safeguarded, particularly by the authority responsible for civil society issues, and it is ultimately the responsibility of Minister for Democracy Amanda Lind to guarantee it. I wonder whether the Minister agrees that a large number of the country's associations have an undemocratic structure. If she doesn't, it's time we stopped this development.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-485	Madam President, I would like As Mr Vasiliki says, the government decides on the terms of this regulation, but then it is up to the authority to apply the regulation independently. How it is applied is not something on which I, as a minister, can speak. On the other hand, I note that the MUCF has applied the democratic condition in the past and that, as a general rule, they have conducted the subsequent judicial trials where it has been examined. I will mention what is in the regulation on the conditions to which the organisations of children and young people in particular need to live up to. It shows that a member association of a youth and children's organisation is a non-profit association which has adopted rules in democratic order. It is also clear from Section 8 of the Regulation that a children's and young people's organisation applying for support must be democratically structured in order to receive a grant. The regulation thus calls for democratic building of both national organisations and their member organisations. But, as I said, how it is interpreted in detail, I do not see myself as a minister. However, I know that MUCF has a dialogue – they also have a mission to have it – with children's and young people's organisations. It is of course important for them to be able to hold dialogue on the management of contributions. I and the government believe that it is urgent to ensure that government governance through grants does not become for government. It is therefore positive that the follow-up to the Government's civil society policy now shows that the proportion of general grants, for example, is increasing in comparison with project support. It is the kind of development that enables a more independent society life where they can distribute the support they receive – I know that I share this with the interpellier. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is important that we strike a balance between that freedom and the legitimacy of benefit systems, without taking specific account of the examples raised by Vasiliki Tsouplaki. In recent years, it has become clear that it may be enough for an actor in the broad community to use tax money unwarrantedly to raise votes calling into question any contribution to civil society at all. Here I and the government want to stand up for giving support to our association life. Children's and young people's organisations have a special importance because they are in many parts a school into the democratic society and contribute to young people being voices in the debate on society and the like. It's really important. However, it is also important that organisations meet the requirements and that we have conditions for democracy. We have such an investigation, which is being worked on so that we can create more long-term and clear conditions for democracy. It is also important for the Authority to have more resources to monitor and monitor the contributions made. This is based, Madam President, on the fact that I and the government are defending civil society and the support given to civil society, but with the comment that it must be the authority that makes the interpretation of the regulation.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-491	Madam President, I would like A while ago I met a young guy who's organized within a pretty big association. He said: we have gone from being seen as a precondition for democracy to being seen as a threat to democracy. It really felt in my stomach when I heard it. They feel what the Minister here expresses. I am afraid that there is a discussion in society that has moved into the administration of the agency. We are concerned about public criticism, and when we want to protect these principles, we may be more likely to mess them up. They are about the independence of society. I think that the rules of the game must be put on the political agenda and that we should review the democratic criteria. We're waiting for three investigations. They need to come to us here in Parliament, so that we have a public debate. We need to turn the stones together. It is too large a value that is at stake for us to put this on individual administrators. I will readily admit that this is not an easy question. What criteria should apply? What should be met in order to receive state subsidies? There may always be a measure of discretion, but it should be as small as possible. The core question is: do we see union life as a precondition and as the core of our democracy, or have we begun to see it as a threat to be controlled and suppressed? For me, it is important that neither politicians nor authorities impose a tight framework on associations. A living democracy is constantly evolving and improving when many voices are heard. A key task for civil society is to be a voice carrier for its members, to raise problems and to demand change. And here in the Riksdag, we want to hear their views when we conduct investigations and come up with legislative proposals. It is very important that they can be honest and straightforward in their criticism of society, government and authorities. They should not censor themselves for fear of getting rid of subsidies, for example. Madam President, I would like My intervention today is mainly about the situation of children's and young people's organisations, but I would like to take this opportunity to highlight a few more examples because I think I see tendencies in several places. One has a slightly changed view of the relationship between national federations and local associations from the state side. Two years ago there was a bunch of national organisations in music – Svensk Jazz, the National Association of Folkmusik and Dans and some others – that lost the right to distribute grants to their member organisations. The Arts Council felt that it would be fairer and more transparent if the local associations were allowed to apply for themselves. I see it's a little bit in the same spirit. That's why I want to lift it for the minister. I do not know whether it was the right or the wrong decision, but I note that this change has not been so well received by the associations. In fact, they feel that greater responsibility is being transferred to non-profits. Many associations join forces in national federations with national statutes in order to help each other. The nonprofit forces don't always have the strength to do it. Especially in smaller towns where there are fewer members, support from the central level is needed. It is also a guarantee that you have order on your papers, business reports and accounts. We should not be tempted to believe that it is necessarily the best and most democratic thing to place more emphasis on local organisations. Maybe we'll lay hookbones for union life if we don't watch out.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-500	Madam President, I would like Vasiliki Tsouplaki mentions several important principles of civil society and association that I agree with. First of all, it should be independent. Whether it is children's and young people's organisations or other associations, they should be able to act as voice carriers. They should not be afraid to express what they think within the limits of the law. They should be able to be critical of, for example, a government or a municipality without the risk of getting rid of grants. That is why clear, long-term and legally secure rules of the game are important. Based on the Swedish National Audit Office's review, we have concluded that MUCF needs more resources to be able to work with its grant management, control and follow-up. I assume that it will develop the way in which the authority operates and clarify what the regulation applies to children's and young people's organisations, so that they do not end up in a situation where there is uncertainty. I understand that it will be very frustrating. That is also one reason why it is so important to have the updated democracy conditions that we are now working on – it is about the three different investigations, which Mr Vasiliki mentions. This is important in order to ensure that public contributions do not go to non-democratic organisations or organisations operating activities that are not compatible with fundamental values and democratic principles. My ambition is also that it will give association life more long-term rules of play, which thereby simplify. Then, of course, it is a question of legitimacy. Apart from the fact that no contributions will go wrong, we must ensure that we have a rich and vibrant civil society in Sweden forward. It is important, and I know that we share that commitment. As far as contributing authorities are concerned and if the government is planning any support, I can say that it is important to facilitate the application of the democratic condition. The democratic conditionality investigation has established this and considers that there is a need for better interaction between authorities. The investigation proposes that the MUCF should be specifically tasked with supporting the contributing authorities in general in the application of the democratic condition. We cannot go in here and ensure that each individual administrator always acts in the best way, but of course the authorities need to have control functions and ensure that there is an equal assessment. It's very important, and that's something the investigation points to. Work is now under way in the Government Office to take care of proposals from these investigations and also from the Democracy Condition Investigation. It's important. MUCF is, as I said, an authority that has been controlled. It has been examined in court proceedings and its positions have been examined. The majority of the reviews that have taken place against MUCF have nevertheless received the go-ahead according to the court, which is a good thing. I know that MUCF is also working continuously to improve the quality of its contribution, and that is of course important and self-evident. I would also like to stress the importance of having a close dialogue with civil society and associations as a contributing authority. When it comes to supporting and working with children's and youth organisations, as MUCF does, it is of course absolutely central.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-510	Madam President, I would like I'd like to take this opportunity to send you a few more things. When you write the bill, I think that the basic attitude should be a model of trust. As far as the public sector is concerned, we have talked about moving towards trust management. I think that one should look at how well it works in outdoor life, the National Sports Federation and the Folkbildningsrådet, where you actually let associations have a greater influence on the distribution of grants, and take with them what works well in that situation. I have promised to mention another example of what has not worked well. I talk to a lot of associations that run into trouble, and one association is Terrafem, who supports violent women with foreign background. After 20 years, they got rid of their state aid in the spring without warning. Their national support line, which can offer assistance in 69 different languages, is thus in danger of disappearing overnight. In this case, it was the National Board of Health and Welfare that was the authority, and they are on the same track: They believe that the regulation between the central level and local organisations is not sufficiently clear in the statutes. So this is something that comes back and that I want to take the opportunity to lift. I and many associations have great expectations of what is to come in the future, so I very much hope that we will get to grips with some of these concerns. We should be aware that many associations have employees. They have salaries, rents and bills to pay, and then there must be foresight, clear rules of play and transparency so that you really know. Changes must be communicated in good time so that you have a chance to adapt to a new situation. I also think it should be self-evident with written assessment documents from administrators so that one can understand the basis for a decision. That should be the case with all the authorities. We need to get away from arbitrariness and detailed governance so that civil society can have long-term rules to deal with.
i-32b4971cfbc78ca2-514	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to emphasise once again, as the honourable Member also argues, that the civil society we have in Sweden contributes something that is unique. It is extremely valuable to our society. We have a long tradition of an independent civil society and rich popular movements that have developed our democracy. We will protect this, and in order to support civil society, the state contributes with support to association life, among other things. Once again, it is also clear that it is enough for a single operator to use tax revenue prudently for the whole system to be called into question. I think that's wrong. I think it is important that we ensure that money goes where it should go; that is why we are working to develop updated, long-term democracy conditions. We also give MUCF better opportunities to control, and we make sure that in different ways give assignments to strengthen and report the review of the work. MUCF has, of course, been given a mandate to report on how to develop the management of grants, and as I said, we have also increased MUCF's administrative appropriations. We must safeguard the foundations of independent and independent associations, and it goes without saying to me, both as environmentalist minister and government representative, that we should continue to support our association life and civil society. This applies both to the broad civil society and to the organisations of children and young people, and I am pleased that we have provided them with additional funds. When it comes to the work with Corona, I am also pleased with the fine examples we see of how the free association life – the National Sports Federation, district farms and others – benefits crisis support within associations. I think it has been a good model that is definitely well worth developing. With this, I would like to thank you for the commitment that Vasiliki Tsouplaki has shown for these issues. I look forward to the continued work on democracy.
