i-JB6gfrJygjvXsS2uWYWEmV	Madam President! Jens Holm has asked me whether I intend to work for Sweden to submit its own climate commitment, a so-called NDC, to the UNFCCC, which complements and goes beyond the EU's climate commitment. As it is legally binding in the Paris Agreement to establish and maintain an NDC, the EU does so jointly in line with the fact that we have a common fulfilment. However, it is not legally binding to develop a long-term strategy under the Paris Agreement and thus open to individual Member States to have such a strategy. Sweden is therefore developing its own long-term strategy for emission reductions to show what we are doing to live up to the Paris Agreement. This long-term strategy intends Sweden to submit to the UN before the end of the year. The Paris Agreement is a legally binding international agreement and covers issues relating to the competences of both the European Union and the Member States. It is a so-called mixed agreement and is therefore to be ratified by both the EU and its Member States. The Paris Agreement provides for the joint fulfilment of the responsibility for nationally determined contributions, which is often abbreviated NDC, National Determined Contributions. These provisions are similar to Article 4 of the Kyoto Protocol, and even under the Kyoto Protocol, the EU and its Member States have fulfilled their commitments jointly. The EU Member States have expressed their intention to act jointly within the framework of the Paris Agreement in the conclusions of the Environment Council on 18 September 2015, as confirmed in the Council Decision approving the Paris Agreement on 5 October 2016. Under the EU Treaties, Member States also have an obligation to act in coherence and loyalty with the Union in foreign policy. Sweden has its own national targets to live up to the Paris Agreement, including through our climate policy framework. Sweden operates through the EU and is the driving force for the EU to adopt more ambitious emission reduction targets for all Member States. Sweden believes that total emissions in the EU should be reduced by at least 60% – with a view to minus 65% – by 2030 and be in line with the 1.5-degree target. Sweden is committed to supporting developing countries' efforts on emission reduction, climate adaptation, capacity building and technology transfer. Since 2014, the government has more than tripled its climate support to developing countries. In 2019, climate financing was 20 per cent higher than in 2018. Climate leadership is about leading both nationally and internationally. Through our climate work, we have shown that Sweden can take the lead in significantly reducing emissions while helping poorer countries adapt their communities to a warmer climate and developing climate smart.
i-d630173e4b73466c-10	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Environment and Climate for the answer to my interpellation. We are in a climate emergency. Although the pandemic has reduced our emissions, the general curve shows a trend in which we are moving towards approximately a 3-degree warming of the earth. It's the end of civilization, as we know it, if that's the way it is. We therefore really need to act decisively. I know that the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action fully agrees with that. What is good about the Paris Agreement is that, in practice, all the countries of the world are involved and that all countries are committed to submitting climate subsidies showing how to reduce their emissions. Sweden is a party to the UNFCCC, i.e. the United Nations Convention on Climate Change. At the same time, we are members of the European Union. Now it is clear from the Minister that we are allowing the EU's climate contribution to be ours, just like the last time the EU submitted this. I find that unfortunate. It is not that I want us to oppose the EU's climate contribution. But both I and Isabella Lövin know that it is completely inadequate. That is why I think it would have been so good if Sweden had submitted its own climate contribution, i.e. a so-called NDC, to the Convention that complements and goes beyond the EU's contribution. Otherwise, there is a risk that we will only be an echo of Brussels and that the EU's substandard climate policy will also become Swedish policy. I know that Norway and Switzerland, for example, have submitted their own climate contributions to the UNFCCC. If you read them, you can see that they will synchronise their contributions with the EU. But they also say that they are prepared to perform more than that if the EU's contribution is not enough. It is about that ambition that I would have liked from Sweden. Madam President, I would like I think what the Minister for Climate and Environment says about submitting a Swedish long-term strategy for emission reductions is very interesting. I would like to hear a little more about that, for example when that strategy will be submitted. As I understood it would happen before the end of the year. Will it be handled by us in the Riksdag in some way? I think that would be very interesting and appropriate. Will such important things that have been parades for Sweden – to stand up for developing countries, which are most affected by the climate crisis, with technology transfer, with the latest and best climate technology, with climate finance, with capacity building, with help with climate adaptation and with release and damage, as has been said, thus getting compensation for what you are affected by here and now when it comes to the climate crisis – be included in the Swedish climate strategy to be submitted? I'd like to know. With regard to the EU's climate contribution, which is also our formal contribution and which is due to be submitted before the end of the year, I think it is quite urgent. Will this climate change contribution land here in Parliament, so that we Members can see it and take a position on it?
i-d630173e4b73466c-17	Madam President, I would like Thank you for this annual interpellation debate on why Sweden does not submit a national NDC to UNFCCC, Jens Holm! I do not remember what I said in this debate last year, but we are members of the European Union. As an EU country, we have a joint commitment to implement the Paris Agreement, and, of course, even as Sweden, we are committed to implementing this commitment under the Paris Agreement. The question is what signal would it send if Sweden, alone as an EU Member State, sent in its own national NDC. No other EU Member State does. As I have mentioned, we have agreed in the Council that we should implement this jointly, and it has been established several times. I think we would react rather negatively if countries within the EU with less climate ambitions were to submit individual commitments that were not aligned with the EU. The countries mentioned by Jens Holm, Norway and Switzerland, are not part of EU cooperation. It may also be worth emphasising that the Left Party is fundamentally very sceptical about EU membership, so it is no wonder that Jens Holm raises this issue every year. However, it would be an extremely negative signal to send out if Sweden broke the loyalty principle we have with the EU. It would be a negative signal to the whole of European cooperation that we do not believe that we can go forward together and raise our ambitions together. Sweden is extremely active in pushing forward so that the EU together will raise its ambitions. We want to see a target of at least minus 65%, and we have been working from day one to get the EU to raise its target by 2030. At present, the target is to reduce emissions by 40%, and we want to increase it substantially. We are about to bring the Member States of the European Union on a target of at least minus 5%. Together we are strong, and it is an incredibly important message to the rest of the world that Europe is united. The fact that individual Member States then have higher ambitions is a good thing. We will submit our long-term strategy, which is also in accordance with the Paris Agreement. It is not legally binding to do so, but we do. These will not be new elements in it beyond what Parliament has already considered, i.e. the climate framework and the national targets we have set ourselves. Of course, we also have what we do in the field of aid, which is very crucial and important in helping the rest of the world and, in particular, the developing countries to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. We are really pushing in this in all arenas, and we are supporting developing countries – including through the so-called NDC partnership, which helps countries to develop their own climate plans and development plans to achieve the Paris Agreement's objectives. Sweden is also one of the largest donors of climate aid. If we are to manage to avoid the climate disaster that is otherwise expected, it is absolutely essential that we help developing countries and not just look at their own country.
i-d630173e4b73466c-23	Madam President, I would like It is true that I and the Environment and Climate Minister usually have this debate right at this time, ahead of the international climate summits. I am the one who stirs up these debates, because I am a Member of Parliament. I think it is very important that more than just ministers and top officials are involved in international climate negotiations. That is how we can gain greater participation in and confidence in the climate issue as such. As we know, there was no climate summit in Glasgow this year, but hopefully it could happen next year. Nevertheless, the contributions should be submitted, and I think this is a bit strange – not least given that the Minister comes from the Green Party, which has been very critical of the European Union precisely because European policy is a lot about harmonisation. It should therefore be the same in all countries, and that makes it difficult for individual countries to take the lead. I think this debate will be an example of this: the Minister talks about loyalty to the EU – yes, of course, but loyalty to the planet and our climate commitments must still be greater, right? My proposal is that we should have a complementary climate contribution to the UN that goes beyond what the EU will declare, not that we should somehow destroy or sabotage anything. If you put the climate first down in Brussels, I am absolutely convinced that you have full understanding. It would be interesting to know whether the Minister has even raised the question in EU circles whether it would be acceptable for a country to go ahead and supplement it with its own climate contribution. On the contrary, I believe that it would only strengthen climate policy if countries easily tried to outdo each other. I was not told by the Minister how the EU's climate contribution, to be submitted before the end of the year, will be handled by Parliament. It would be interesting to hear, for example, that Sweden, as the Minister says, has higher climate ambitions than most other EU countries. We want to reduce emissions by almost 70% by 2030, and the EU's target could be at best minus 55%. That's not enough. What happens if one country reduces its emissions by up to 70% by 2030 and other countries in the EU think that they do not need to do as much, because there are countries that are reducing much more? Will the government push for the EU's climate contribution to be legally binding on all EU Member States and that it should also be split up so that everyone gets commitments – so that one can not ride free-riding on one another? I also think that this is an important issue, and that is why I think it is important that the climate subsidy be submitted to Parliament. So it was a question I wanted answers to. I also want answers on the climate strategy – which I very much welcome! I think it is incredibly positive that the Minister for Climate Change tells us that it should be submitted from Sweden before the end of the year, because it will be a Swedish climate strategy of its own. Will it somehow also be submitted to Parliament, or will we at least see it before? I think that important things such as technology transfer, climate finance – to which I would like to come back – and capacity building for developing countries are elements that need to be included in such a strategy.
i-d630173e4b73466c-29	Madam President, I would like I will begin by answering the question about the EU's climate contribution and how it is handled by Parliament. It is handled continuously by the Riksdag; the other day we had a discussion with the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture on the long-term climate framework for the EU, and ahead of the negotiations we have anchored Sweden's position in the Riksdag. The prime minister will have to negotiate with the other prime ministers of the European Council, and that position will be anchored in the EU Council. Then we will take it further in the circle of environmental ministers, and this is continuously anchored with the Riksdag. Finally, on the basis of these negotiations, the EU will be able to land in a target that will be submitted to the UN climate convention before the end of the year – which is legally binding under the Paris Agreement, which has also been ratified by Parliament. I therefore believe that we have established this very well. Do we want the targets to apply at Member State level? Yes, and this is something that Parliament has made very clear about and that the government fully agrees with, that is to say that it is important that all EU Member States should have their own goals and that no one should go free-riding on anyone else, so to speak. Emission reductions must take place, and step by step we are trying to get it into the text. However, we have the ESR regulation, which already divides responsibilities by Member State, and that is an instrument we need to keep screwing on. As far as the principle of loyalty is concerned, it is actually part of the EU Treaties that the Member States have a duty to act in coherence and loyalty with the Union in foreign policy. As far as the Green Party is concerned, perhaps I can interpret the Party's policy as meaning that the Green Party wants international cooperation on environmental and climate issues where it can really get momentum in a joint commitment and position. While individual countries can take the lead, bringing the world's largest economy, as the EU is, gives enormous impetus to the transformation. That is why the government is working very hard to raise the ambition at EU Member State level. I am absolutely convinced that those countries within Europe that do not want to make the transition and that have the slightest ambition would be overjoyed if we opened up to all Member States being able to send in their own NDCs, with very low ambitions, where they can explain in long terms that they cannot make the transition because their country is so vulnerable and vulnerable. We don't want to open that door. However, we submit a long-term strategy. This is something that we shall do under the Paris Agreement, even if it is not legally binding. However, the parties to the Paris Agreement are called upon to do so, and we will do so. This strategy will not contain any new elements, but we have there the ambitious objectives adopted by Parliament and the policies already put forward by the government. This is what will be told in the long-term strategy – long-term strategy – that we will submit. It goes without saying that Parliament will be able to take part in this.
i-d630173e4b73466c-35	Madam President, I would like I think, once again, that it would have been very good if Sweden had submitted its own climate contribution that went beyond and complemented the EU's climate contribution. The EU's climate contribution today is just over four A4 pages. It contains the EU's long-term climate goals and a few other fine words, but as far as I remember, there is nothing about climate finance for developing countries, about capacity building for developing countries, about how technology transfer, which is so incredibly important, should go to or about a variety of other important dimensions. If this is what Isabella Lövin thinks is an ambitious climate policy, I certainly do not agree. There is a need for countries to push ahead. I hope that Sweden can be such a country. When it comes to one thing like climate finance, it's a little important what is said in the fine print. Let us hope that comes in the climate strategy. There, Sweden should say that climate finance should be made with new and additional funds. So money should not be taken from the fight against malaria to reduce emissions in developing countries; this must be done with new money so that regular aid can continue to work. Will this – that climate finance should be new and additional – be included in the Swedish climate strategy? I think that would be interesting to hear. And will the other things, such as technology transfer, be included in the Swedish climate strategy? Here Sweden can really take out the turns and drive a Swedish position. I really think we should do that, because it is important for countries that are pushing ahead in climate policy. It cannot be that Sweden should only be an echo of Brussels. Our climate policy must be so much more.
i-d630173e4b73466c-39	Madam President, I would like Sweden has an extremely ambitious climate policy. We have three years in a row ranked as one of international environmental organisations when they have tried to see which of the developed countries has the best climate policy. In Jens Holm's question, he said that it is not enough for Sweden to follow the tide in the EU and that we should have higher ambitions. It is certainly not the case that we are following the tide in Europe! We are leading climate action in the EU, and we are pushing for higher ambitions. Bringing 27 countries into the world's largest economy to set the target of at least minus 55% by 2030 will have a global impact; it really makes an incredible impression on the rest of the world, on the economy and on investors that will enable us to make a transition. I do not think seriously, Jens Holm, that it would have the same effect if Sweden were to let go of it and let the big countries of the European Union, which have lower ambitions, set the agenda and instead go out and be the best in the class and just talk about what we are doing with our 10 million inhabitants. However, Jens Holm apparently believes that. I would argue that this is not the case, but that it is important that we keep European cooperation together. We have no time to lose; the climate crisis is already here. We have our best chance right now. It is important to keep EU cooperation together, particularly on the issue of climate change. It is certainly not the case that Sweden is following the tide, but we are doing exactly everything we can to bring other countries with us that are still in doubt today. We will continue to do so.
i-d630173e4b73466c-43	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me how the government intends to prioritise between national production of bioenergy and compliance with the environmental quality goals Living forests and A rich plant and animal life based on the 21 roadmaps for fossil freedom submitted to the government. Let me begin by saying that Sweden has a long and proud tradition of showing leadership on environmental and climate issues. The 2030 Agenda and the global sustainable development goals put the need for green change at the forefront. We need an integrated climate and environmental policy to achieve the objectives. Sweden can show how the transition goes hand in hand with increased welfare, economic development and competitiveness. No one should be left out. The starting point is that the climate transition should be carried out in a way that does not jeopardise the ability to achieve other global goals for sustainable development. The message is coherence and exploiting synergies. The Government has a clear ambition that protected forests should not be harvested but should be preserved, either through formal protection or through voluntary provisions, and that environmental considerations in forestry should increase. Well-being and viable ecosystems are important for the human environment. In Sweden, the proportion of forest species at risk of extinction has increased by 10 per cent over the last five years. Together with the Center Party and the Liberals, the Government has developed a climate policy action plan and a circular economy strategy that will lead the way to a resource-efficient society where environmental and climate goals are achieved. The Government also intends to develop a Swedish bioeconomy strategy that complements the circular economy strategy. The annual level of felling has increased in recent decades and has increasingly approached the annual growth available for felling. At the same time, future demand for Swedish biomass is expected to increase sharply as the transition to a more circular and bio-based economy in accordance with the Riksdag's decided climate targets. Bio-based materials should also be recycled, and the bioeconomy should be developed in a manner consistent with the achievement of other environmental and societal objectives and taking into account the impact on carbon sinks and biodiversity over time. In this work, the government's announced bioeconomy strategy will be an important tool. The Bioeconomy Strategy, which will be developed together with the green industries, will contribute to increased access to biomass and employment throughout the country and create environmental and climate benefits. To succeed in transition, all sectors of society at all levels need to contribute. Sustainable biomass, including from forests, can contribute to the substitution of fossil materials and energy. A strategy to achieve fossil freedom throughout the economy must be based on several other available solutions, such as transport efficiency, circularity, electrification, energy efficiency, hydrogen and electrofuels. Therefore, the estimates made by Fossil-free Sweden must be handled in a broader context. Sustainable use of Swedish biomass will continue to be important. In order to ensure the availability of sustainable forest raw materials for the growing circular bioeconomy, incentives need to be created for sustainable forestry and forest protection, so that Sweden achieves relevant national and international biodiversity commitments. In a well-developed bioeconomy with a growing range of products, different forms of biomass are required. Today, residues from the Swedish forestry industry are primarily used to replace fossil fuels. The roadmaps developed by industry within the Fossil free Sweden indicate that demand for biomass will increase from several different sectors. Therefore, the bioeconomy needs to be based on the efficient use of resources, where the forest resource can be fully utilised within the sustainability framework set by other environmental and societal objectives, while maintaining or improving the long-term carbon sink in forests over time. The Government intends to highlight and make better use of synergies for coherence between different policy areas.
i-d630173e4b73466c-53	Madam President, I would like In preparation for the Paris Summit, Sweden launched the Fossil-free Sweden initiative. The government, together with a number of industries and industries, would work together to make us the world's first fossil-free welfare country. It has worked so that there is now a coordinator within the framework of Fossil-free Sweden, and various industries are developing so-called roadmaps for how to achieve their respective goals. At present, it has entered 21, or if it is now 22, road maps for fossil freedom from sectors such as aviation, the automotive industry, agriculture, the haulage industry, the steel industry and so on – a very broad palette of different industries in Sweden. I think Fossil-free Sweden is a very interesting initiative, and the coordinator is really a blowtorch for things to happen. We must have industry with us, because one third of our emissions are in industry and another third in our transport. Being involved is one thing, but sometimes we may have to distinguish between roles, that is, what industry does voluntarily and what we do in the form of laws, rules, taxes, levies, etcetera. The consulting company Sweco looked at the nine road maps that had then arrived and how much biofuels the road maps are expected to demand. Sweco concluded that bioenergy demand would increase by 86 percent, 75 terawatt hours, in Sweden as a direct result of the road maps. In its report, the Finnish Transport Agency states that the demand for biofuels will increase by 70 per cent by 2030. There are also other estimates as a result of the roadmaps, the reduction obligation and other initiatives. The Minister and I agree that the demand for Swedish bioenergy will increase significantly. In view of this, I think it would be appropriate for the government itself to have an idea of how much demand can be as a result of the roadmaps and other government policies, but also how much bioenergy production is actually desirable given that we also have environmental objectives in other areas, not least the environmental objective of Living Forests. Today we import almost all the raw materials into biofuels in Sweden, and none of us think that is very sustainable. Then the question is whether we should replace it with Swedish-produced biofuels. If we also get an increase of 70 - 80 percent, is it sustainable from the perspective of biodiversity? Much of the bioenergy is expected to come from forests and agriculture. I therefore believe that it is important for the government to state clearly that we cannot jeopardise our biodiversity targets, but that biofuels can be produced from residues, which cannot be used for anything else. Is it the Government's ambition to pursue this particular policy?
i-d630173e4b73466c-61	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for an important question! We are in perhaps the largest transformation of Sweden's industry, production and consumption in modern times – since the industrial revolution. That is why it is so extremely important that we have these road maps from sector by sector, as Jens Holm listed. The cement, steel and forest industries, heavy transport, and so on, have themselves pointed out obstacles to achieving fossil freedom and net zero emissions by 2050. The work that is going on now is to try to put together all the roadmaps and see what synergies and goal conflicts there are and how society will help us to make this transition without dismantling our Swedish industry, without the whole of Sweden staying. That is certainly not the intention of the change, but that we should have clean air and slow down the climate crisis. Jens Holm asked what we should prioritise – the climate transition or our environmental quality targets for living forests and for biodiversity. The answer to that is very clear from my point of view: we should certainly not reduce our environmental quality objectives. They're stuck. And climate change must take place within the framework of the objectives that we have set ourselves and that the Riksdag has decided on. There is no change of course here, and it absolutely should not. It is neither desirable nor reasonable to compromise sustainability requirements in order to increase the amount of biomass. We now note that replacing all fossil fuels with bioenergy would lead to a large excess of biomass. However, we can also note that the roadmaps are based on the type of engines and processes that exist today. There is an enormous shift in innovation. We need to look at transport efficiency, circularity, electrification, energy efficiency, hydrogen and electrofuels. There are a whole range of tools in the toolbox that will enable us to reach the climate targets. Biofuels as such are not the only answer. It will be a part and one that we will use when there are no other options. However, there are alternatives in many of these areas that the roadmaps point out. That is why we need to support the development of these, and the government does. We now go in with support via Industriklivet to hydrogen, circular solutions, sustainable battery chains etc. The answer to the question of whether such a large increase is sustainable is probably no. Today we import 80% of all biofuels. We also export 80% of all biofuels produced in Sweden. This is a global market, and it is extremely important that we can actually increase the sustainable production of biofuels in Sweden.
i-d630173e4b73466c-69	Madam President, I would like When SLU researcher Tomas Lundmark, based on the roadmaps for fossil freedom, tried to find out the expected demand for biofuels and how it would affect the forest, he wrote a report entitled Skogen is not enough. I think that's exactly the way it is. If we pull out the plug and say that the targets can be achieved with biofuels then please, yes, then our forests will turn into plantations for biofuel production. It is good that the Minister does not want that, but I think it is important for the government itself to get an idea of the expected demand and then prioritise r among the plans. I have spoken to many actors who have sent fossil-free roadmaps to the government, and they believe that they have sent their plans to the government and expect some kind of response. Many people expect an answer to how much biofuels it is sustainable to produce. The Minister says in his reply that the government's policy, for example, is that protected forests should not be harvested. I dare to say that this is exactly what is happening; every day, protective forests are harvested in Sweden. I was at Brännvinsberget in Ore skogsrike in Rättvik municipality and saw that Sveaskog had harvested biologically valuable forests. Also in Sikån in southern Jokkmokk and in Tellejokk, also in Jokkmokk, Sveaskog has harvested forests that have been classified as biologically valuable, either by nature guardians or by the County Administrative Board. So this is happening all the time, so we need a forestry policy that takes much more account of biodiversity. The Minister says in her reply that she wants incentives for sustainable forestry, and that is important. What can be the incentive? According to my opinion, the forest investigation that has come points in the wrong direction. The aim is to remove the registration of key biotopes and to shorten the processing times for felling applications, which makes it more difficult to see which fellings are to be made. Furthermore, protection must be voluntary, not regulated. It doesn't feel like a desirable development. What will be the status of the bioeconomy strategy to be developed? I am concerned that there will be another strategy pointing out biofuels as a fantastic solution to everything. But it can't be. I do not think that large parts of the transport sector should rely on biofuels at all, but rather on electrifying and having a more efficient transport system. Madam President, I would like I would like a much clearer message from the Minister. How does the government view the recordings that have come from the roadmaps? Does the government intend to prioritise among them how much biofuels will be used? Could the minister indicate a level? Today we use about 20 terawatt hours of biofuels per year in Sweden. Is it supposed to be more or less?
i-d630173e4b73466c-77	Madam President, I would like I thank Jens Holm for the questions. These are really relevant questions and a complex question. Now that we are facing this great change, of course, we are going to ask ourselves these questions. We must, of course, safeguard our environmental and climate objectives, but it should not be one or the other, but we should do it all. When it comes to bioeconomy, biofuels and biomass, it is important that it is used where it is most useful but without compromising our environmental quality objectives. We know that sustainable ecosystems are important for maintaining biodiversity and, as I said at the outset, unfortunately, we are seeing a decline in biodiversity in our forests, including for forest-living birds. We must take this very seriously. Let me point out that no government has invested so much in protecting valuable forests as the present one. Between 2015 and 2019, more than a thousand new and expanded nature reserves were established that contain around 150,000 hectares of valuable forest. We also have a series of initiatives in the January agreement that we have announced in the budget proposal for 2021. We increase the grant for protection of a valuable nature by SEK 1.7 billion. The appropriation for management of a valuable nature has also been increased. Work on green infrastructure continues. Green infrastructure is an ecologically functional network of natural areas managed and managed to preserve biodiversity and promote ecosystems. This is necessary in order for our naturally occurring species to have viable populations. A new Sveaskog programme will also be implemented. State forestry should be an example of sustainable forestry and take great natural consideration. It is also part of the January agreement. The forestry inquiry Jens Holm mentions has been received by the government, and we will send the report for a referral. We haven't analyzed it yet, so I can't comment on it. I have already presented various incentives for sustainable forestry and the major budgetary efforts the government is making. But of course we need to take further steps to ensure that new technologies are developed so that the forest and forest raw material can be used more sustainably from several perspectives, including of course biodiversity. So to how much biomass we will need by 2030 or 2050. We are seeing a tremendously rapid change in this sector of industry and transport. In November, 38 per cent of all new cars sold were rechargeable. No one predicted that a year ago, no, not even six months ago. Progress is thus much faster than we thought. With the reduction obligation we have introduced, we see an increased need by 2030. But if electrification continues as it is now, the need will be much less.
i-d630173e4b73466c-89	Madam President, I would like In fact, it would be interesting to hear how much the need for biofuels will be due to the reduction obligation. This duty means that it is mandatory to mix more and more biofuels into petrol and diesel. I asked this question to Parliament's investigation service and got the answer that in 2030 we will need about 40 to 60 terawatt hours of biofuels. Today we have a total of 20 terawatt hours, so this is a very strong increase – and that is only because of the reduction obligation. We also have the roadmaps, which are the subject of today's debate. For me, mathematics doesn't go together. I can well imagine that we can have significant national production of sustainable biofuels. We have a large forestry industry in Sweden and paper and cellulose industries. It creates the residual products from which biofuels can be made. But it cannot be enough for a 70%, 86% or 100% increase in biofuel use in Sweden. It will simply have to be a little more niche, and it is therefore important that the government go in and prioritise among the roadmaps and say what you believe and do not believe in. Unfortunately, however, I do not see such a plan from the government. In terms of incentives for sustainable forestry, the Minister raised budget appropriations to protect more forests. We in the Left Party fully agree with that. We even spend more money than the government does. Incentives for more sustainable forestry are, for example, promoting continuity forestry where the entire forest is not cut. Is that what the Minister thinks? Well, I hope so. Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for the debate. I think we need to come back in more debates on biofuels, sustainability and climate change, because that is important.
i-d630173e4b73466c-95	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm mentioned some figures here about how much bioenergy is used. It is true that about 17 terawatt hours go to biofuels today. The reduction obligation could lead to a biofuel need of about 45 terawatt hours. But this is not all that is used. In total, 87 terawatt hours of bioenergy are used in society. A lot of it's chips that go to heating. There are indeed opportunities to redispose within what already exists and is already being used. How should we prioritise? We're going to use the biomass where it's most useful. We can see that technological developments are taking place extremely quickly. If you go back historically you can see that forecasts rarely come true. We are very smart about efficiency efficiency and finding new technologies. With clear demands on sustainability and the right price signals, the market can allocate the available biomass to where it gets the most and best yield. Probably we will use biomass as a substitute for fossil inputs, first and foremost in durable products such as increasingly processed products and not as fuel primarily. Biofuels can be used as a bridge to rapidly phase out fossil fuels. We have a lot of cars with internal combustion engines today. We can't scrap them. They have an average life span of 17 years. It is also a way of involving all the people in the transition we need to make. However, we shall do so within the framework of the agreed environmental quality objectives that we need to respect in order for us to have a living nature, on which we also depend.
i-d630173e4b73466c-101	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked the Minister of Finance what the Minister means by the position that electric car exports to Norway should be reduced, and what level of electric car exports from Sweden to Norway the Minister will consider reasonable before the rules on vehicle taxation are re-established. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The number of electric cars and charging hybrids sold in Sweden and then exported abroad has increased in recent years, although the vast majority of cars sold in Sweden still remain in the country. Statistics from the Swedish Agency for Traffic Analysis show that approximately one in four electric cars or charging hybrids sold in Sweden are exported within five years. A majority of the exported charging hybrids and half of the exported electric cars end up in Norway. Exports from Sweden of these second-hand cars mean that the conversion in Sweden to a vehicle fleet that is not dependent on fossil fuels is delayed by a reduction in the supply of second-hand electric cars on the Swedish market. This also means that Swedish tax funds are used to finance other countries' conversion to a more environmentally friendly vehicle fleet. However, it should be emphasised in this context that Sweden is part of the EU's single market, and second-hand cars are a commodity like everyone else. The European market is considerably larger than the Swedish market, which is why it is natural for some of the environmental cars that change owners to be sold abroad. However, ten times more used petrol and diesel cars were exported from Sweden than used environmental cars in 2019. In order to counteract exports from Sweden of subsidised environmental cars, the Ministry of the Environment has sent out a proposal for a referral that recipients of grants when buying an environmental car, in the form of a climate bonus, will be liable for refunds if the car is exported within five years. The referral period expired on 23 November this year. The Ministry will now, as usual, analyse the comments received. My ambition is for such a repayment of the climate bonus to be introduced in 2021. However, it is important that the design of the repayment obligation does not conflict with EU internal market rules.
i-d630173e4b73466c-108	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The listener may be thinking about what bonus – malus is. A lot of people know that, but not all of them. It is basically a theoretical product where one should overestimate petrol and diesel cars and then be able to subsidise cleaner electric cars, electric hybrids and so on. The basic idea was possibly good. My own party was present during the introduction of the system, although I myself personally was hesitant at the introduction. What has unfortunately happened is that we have seen what this theoretical product has achieved. For example, if you take a regular public wagon, Tiguan, the annual tax on diesel costs about $2,500 (U.S.) in 2014, before it was introduced. After the turn of the year, with bonus– malus and reinforcements in that system, it will cost about SEK 14 500 in vehicle tax six years later. It's a rather remarkable raise. Then the car is still one of the cars that has got a smaller increase than many others. Madam President, I would like What has happened is that those who earn less money and can afford to buy a used car that goes on petrol or diesel have seen that the secondary value is pushed up by the increased new car prices due to bonus – the malus system. Whoever earns less subsidizes cars to the one who earns more. It has been the practical consequence of this. It has also become the case that Norrland and the countryside subsidise cars for those living in our cities. That's where the expensive electric cars are sold and where you pick out the bonus. What has also happened, and that is what my interpellation is about, is that hardworking people around this country who drive their petrol - and diesel cars to and from work, pick up their children from various leisure activities and drive home some food to their old mother pays a huge overtaxation in Sweden in vehicle taxes. They do so either in the form of buying a new car or buying a used car where the secondary value has been printed up by the system. What happens to a large part of that money is that they go over to Norway. There are hundreds of millions of dollars in the form of subsidised electric cars transferred to Norway. You can think what you want. I read in the Minister's reply that there is a certain problem in this. But what I see is a much bigger problem. People with smaller margins in the countryside, who are already working and working very hard, should sit and pay for the electric car conversion in Norway to people there who have a lot of money. I can't quite understand that. Madam President, I would like The system is also condemned by expert authorities, the Swedish National Audit Office and the Council for Fiscal Policy. All of them claim that it is an incredibly expensive and inefficient way to try to change the Swedish fleet of vehicles. I am pleased that we Moderates have at least taken the position of wanting to abolish this system because it does not achieve what was originally the basic idea. I do not think that hardworking people in Sweden should pay for the climate change in Norway. Madam President, I would like I read in my reply that the Minister and the Government want to do something about this. My question to the Minister is this: if it is not the way to stop the export of electric cars to Norway, i.e. the withdrawal from Swedish taxpayers to subsidise electric cars in Norway, is the Minister prepared to dismantle the system and find another better system to promote the conversion of the fleet of vehicles?
i-d630173e4b73466c-119	Madam President, I would like Bonus – malus is a system where environmentally- and climate-smart cars should pay off and be paid for by the malus, the penalty tax. Electric cars are something that we want on Swedish roads. We want new, nice cars with the latest technology, both for safety and for the environment. In the reply, the Minister describes the work carried out by the Government and the referral that has expired. According to it, those who buy an electric car will receive a bonus, and if the car is exported within five years, they will be liable for repayment, I understand. Then I would like to ask the Minister if she sees that the incentive can be limited if those who can afford to buy an electric car are to be liable for repayment if the same vehicle is exported over the next five years.
i-d630173e4b73466c-121	Madam President, I would like I thank Members for the questions. I would like to begin by emphasising that the evaluations referred to by Edward Riedl do not include bonuses – the Malus system. We've got a lot of hating with the super-environmental car premium introduced by the Alliance government. The problem of the export of environmental cars is nothing new either. What has not been included in the evaluations is precisely the fact that the placing of cars in this system funds the bonus for the low-emission cars. This means that taxpayers do not have to pay for it. I would also like to emphasise that the new tax applies to new cars, not to older cars already rolling on our roads. This is a way of trying to change the new car structure, and we are already seeing such a change. Nor should you think that new, large, heavy diesel cars, suva, are cheaper than new electric cars. They're about the same price range, I'd say. Now there are also electric cars that are much cheaper than just a few years ago. It is also very much a result of politics that is leading the way: now we are interested in this market. In the past, Norway was the main electricity car market. Sweden is now top in the EU for new car sales of rechargeable cars – 38% of the new cars sold in November were rechargeable. I would very much like to attribute this to the Malus reform. Before it was introduced, it was 5%. The trend is therefore very fast and, of course, prices are falling too. I would also like to say, speaking of living in rural areas, that the operating cost of an electric car is 10% of the cost of a fossil-powered car. Charging with renewable electricity, being able to charge where you live and not have to go to a gas station and pay a lot to refuel each time, for example if you have a long way to work, brings enormous benefits not least to the countryside. Those living in the country have the opportunity to charge where they live, overnight. We now also have middle-class cars that have a range of 450 km. I therefore find it very populist to say that this affects people in rural areas. We also see that the sale of rechargeable cars does not just take place in the big cities. In fact, several of our rural areas are also at the top. The Moderates, on the other hand, want to subsidise fossil fuels by reducing petrol tax by 7 billion in their budget. That is wasting taxpayers' money, I really want to say. We have a climate crisis; we need to change. Sofia Westergren asks me what I think about the repayment obligation. This issue has been out for a referral, and we need to resolve it in a good way. The proposal from the Ministry of the Environment is that if you sell your electric car earlier than within five years, you have to agree with the person you sell to the effect that if this person exports the car to another country, the refund obligation will be on the person who exports the car, not the one who bought the car in the first line.
i-d630173e4b73466c-131	Madam President, I would like Let me first show the Minister this heading in my mobile phone. It may not be visible, but it's from the National Auditor's report. The heading is a non-effective support for environmental cars and cars – we may then be able to discuss this. In the recommendations that the Swedish National Audit Office gives to the Government – the Swedish National Audit Office works on behalf of the Swedish Parliament to review what the government does in terms of goals and other things – it is quite clear, Madam President, that the Swedish National Audit Office judges this system. As do other expert authorities. The Council of Finance Ministers and others say that this is a bad and expensive way. Furthermore, the criticism is very harsh that these electric cars, which are subsidised by hardworking people in this country, are being exported to Norway. That criticism is very harsh from the National Audit Office and others, Madam Speaker. I do not know what the Minister refers to otherwise, but anyone who wishes can read about that criticism and the recommendations of the National Audit Office. Then I am a little stunned when the Minister for the Environment, Madam President, stands and says that people in rural areas should buy electric cars because it becomes so much cheaper for them – just as if people were stupid and did not do what would be financially right and proper. I think that is almost provocative, Madam President. The reason people don't buy electric cars is that these are still very expensive. That is why those who cannot afford are now taxed for not being able to afford to change and for those who can afford to change to get even cheaper electric cars. Then I do not remember the choice of words, but the Minister also said that this would not hit the countryside very hard. Then you can look at the municipalities where electric cars are sold and the municipalities where electric cars are not sold. The top 10 municipalities I think the minister could almost rabble up from the head, because it is basically municipalities here Stockholm. That's where most electric cars are sold. When it comes to the municipalities where the smallest electric cars are sold, you can get up to Norrland. Three of the municipalities with the least sales of electric cars are located in my county, Västerbottens län, which has 15 municipalities. So there is a very clear difference between where electric cars are sold. What this system has done is that those who earn less money pay lots of punitive taxes to allow those who earn a lot of money to buy expensive, fine luxury cars. This is one of the consequences that the system has brought. Then we also have a transfer from land to city. Cars are sold in the big cities – just look at the municipalities in which these cars are sold, and that picture becomes very clear, Madam President. What may be most provocative is what I asked you about. Not only does this transfer from those who earn a little for those who earn a lot, from those who live in the countryside to those who live in the city; there is also a transfer of money from hardworking people in this country who need the car to get to and from work to pay for the electric car conversion in Norway. That is, of course, what this interpellation is about: the great drain of money that goes from Swedish taxpayers, which is overtaxed in a way that no one else does in the European Union in terms of ownership of the car. That money is largely transferred, hundreds of millions each year, so that Norwegians can buy subsidised Teslors and other things. That, Madam President, seems to me to be very bad. That is what my question was about: if the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action can imagine, if this continues and cannot be stopped, perhaps abolishing the bonus – the Malus system and see if it is possible to find another system that can promote the transition. There are no differences of opinion, Madam President.
i-d630173e4b73466c-140	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister a question about a family that has two children each with a per-mobile. The family needs a family car to go on activities and other things, as a family does. The family economy has difficulty carrying the malus that this car would require, that is, $35,000. There are some support that families like this can get, but they are more of a one-off nature and paid out when buying a car. I would therefore like to ask whether there are any thoughts on how to support these families. They depend on a larger car that will carry a lot of malus, but they do not have a smaller car as an alternative or an electric car because they need a load capacity. There's no such thing as a good option. I would also like to make sure that I understood the Minister's response earlier correctly. If A, who buys an electric car, sells to B and B exports, is it then B that will pay back the Malus part? It was just a matter of control for me.
i-d630173e4b73466c-143	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by answering Sofia Westergren's specific question. The proposal that has been referred – we look at it and the referral – is that the bonus recipient will be obliged to pay back the bonus if the climate bonus car is deregistered for reasons other than its scrapping, for example because the car is exported, within five years of the date on which it was set. The refund obligation thus follows the bonus recipient for five years even if the bonus recipient would resell the car within Sweden. In order to avoid changing the legislation, the proposal is that those who have received a climate bonus may agree with the buyer on an export to have that money back. It is the person who has received the bonus who will be liable for the refund. Otherwise, the legislation needs to be amended, and then it will take at least one more year before we can introduce the restrictions, and that means another year when this type of export can take place. Edward Riedl would like to point out that this is about Norway, and I would like to point out that Edward Riedl spoke very much about the Swedish countryside in his introductory speech. So I answered in the way I did. Of course, I do not think it is good that some of the environmental cars are exported. After all, 117 000 cars were exported from Sweden last year, and only 11 000 were environmental cars. So it is not the majority of cars that go for export that are environmental cars. We have an open market, and cars are a commodity like everyone else. We want to ensure that this does not slow down the transition in Sweden and that, through it, we benefit other countries with the transition. Last year 137 pure electric cars were exported from Sweden, and 15,632 electric cars were sold last year. 137 were thus exported and over 15 000 were sold. This is probably a temporary problem because we see an explosion of new models and car brands. I would say that all car brands are now producing charging cars or pure electric cars, and we see that the price trend is going downwards at an explosive rate. We have cars from South Korea, Japan, Germany and so on. Volvo, too, will now really invest in electric cars. Volvo's CEO said the other day that he wants petrol and diesel cars banned because it's the only way to get fast speed in this transition. It is therefore clear that the price picture will change very quickly. When we have a great many electric cars on the European market, this problem will subside. Of course, the government wants to slow this down in the near future. The government's proposal is to be liable if the car is exported within five years of receiving the bonus. Again, I would like to say that in the reviews that have been carried out so far of environmental car systems, in plura l, one is not looking specifically at bonuses – malus.
i-d630173e4b73466c-152	Madam President, I would like The reason I mentioned rural areas in my introduction is that rural areas are one of the parties paying for the switchover to electric cars inside our cities. That's what it actually looks like. In fact, people have alternatives in the cities. There are functioning public transport, but you buy luxury electric cars that people in the country will then be involved in subsidising. That's what it looks like, and the minister can sigh at just as much as she wants. That's the reality. The Minister is impressed that Volvo wants to ban petrol and diesel cars and replace the entire fleet. It is hardly revolutionary that a company wants to make a lot of things in order to sell them, but it is almost expected. However, I agree that it is good if the technology becomes cheaper so that more people can afford to buy electric cars. That would be very good, wouldn't it? The problem is what we are debating today, and what it looks like today, that we are taxing those who do not have public transport and those who cannot afford to buy these fine electric cars. They're the ones you tax. The whole cost of this climate change is spent on those who earn little, on those who do not have alternatives, on those who live in Norrland and on those who live in rural areas. That's what the statistics look like. That is what I raised, Madam President, with the Minister. That's what the sales figures look like if you look at how it spreads in the country. So that is the problem, and that is why I have asked the Minister the questions I have put to him. What I would like to know, and the Minister has not really answered that, is what happens if we do not manage to stop this outflow, the climate aid to Norway of hundreds of millions each year. Should we not then reconsider this and find some other way of contributing to the conversion of the fleet of vehicles which does not impose penalties on hard-working people here and send the money to Norway?
i-d630173e4b73466c-157	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl points to municipalities all the time. I think we should look at population density and the sale of expensive suvar in the municipalities mentioned by Edward Riedl. If you look at what it looks like, however, you see that the statistics actually look different, and compared to the population there is a partly different picture of this. I am not surprised that the most expensive cars are sold in municipalities with the highest incomes and that the number of new cars there is much greater than in rural areas. But unfortunately, I think the Moderates are extremely populist now in their argumentation. The Moderates also want to subsidise fossil fuels by reducing petrol and diesel taxes by 7 billion in their shadow budget. It will hardly benefit rural areas if the dependence on thirsty petrol and diesel cars is maintained when we now see such a rapid shift in the whole car industry towards rechargeable cars with a tenth of the operating costs compared to a petrol or diesel car. One-tenth! It is not just because you charge instead of refueling, but it is also less maintenance costs at all. This is a very positive development for those who depend on cars – those who do not have the possibility of public transport – that there is actually a technological development now that is positive in terms of reducing air pollution as well as noise and costs. I do not think that we should currently remove the bonus – the Malus system. There will come a time when it may become redundant, but right now it makes a huge difference in the process of resetting the Swedish car park.
i-d630173e4b73466c-162	Madam President, I would like Christina Höj Larsen has asked me about the measures I take to ensure that the rules for residence permits are not designed in a way that leads to an unwanted balance of power in the Swedish labour market in favour of employers and a deterioration of conditions for integration. D a parliamentary committee on the future of Swedish migration policy has been tasked with taking a position on the formulation of the future Swedish migration policy with a view to establishing a long-term sustainable regime. The proposals are proposed to enter into force on the expiry of the Temporary Act. The Committee's report proposes that permanent residence permits should, as a general rule, only be granted if certain requirements are met. The person in question must, among other things, meet requirements for knowledge of Swedish and social sciences and be able to support himself or herself. The Committee also proposes that the government or the authority that the government decides should be responsible for the detailed formulation of language and social skills requirements and livelihoods. The Committee's report was sent to the Committee by 7 December at the latest. A bill will then be submitted to the Riksdag so that new legislation can enter into force when the Temporary Act expires on 20 July 2021. The government will, of course, take into account the views of the consultative bodies when we take a position on the various proposals in the forthcoming proposal. Finally, I would like to stress that Swedish migration policy should be humane, legally secure and effective.
i-d630173e4b73466c-167	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Government for its answer, which is inspiring in some bureaucratic sense, but unfortunately that is not the correct answer to the question I have asked. The unemployment fund is the largest parachute we have in the country, and we should abolish it. The abolition of the unemployment fund would be a good way to get people involved in getting a new income. That's what Peter Wallenberg once said at Investor's Annual General Meeting. It summarises how the right has always believed that the working class is best encouraged to work harder and to make more effort – if it is hungry, insecure and serf. Historically, in the labour movement, we have faced this oppression with a struggle for everyone's equal right to freedom, security and a wage to live on. The success path has been not to allow the employee collective to split up, not to allow my insecurity to give the employer an advantage over you and vice versa. Being part of that movement obliges. It requires a consistent understanding of solidarity as a prerequisite for our ability to succeed in countering the oppression, insecurity and insecurity of the right. But now we are increasingly hearing the Social Democrats using the same arguments as the right wing has always done. Under cover integration, people should be stimulated with vulnerability and insecurity. Even the most basic thing, to live with your children and the one you love, is to be made conditional. For example, we heard this the other day in Ekot when Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson said: Because this incentive exists, that you know that if you study properly, learn Swedish, establish yourself in the labour market, get a job, get a place to live, then you will also be able to bring your family here. The Temporary Restrictions Act marked a shift in the approach to rights and integration. From seeing rights as a path to equality and integration, a majority in the Riksdag, led by the Social Democrats, chose to use rights as a reward for those who manage to get through locked doors – all to try to scare away people on the run. The clearest examples of this shift are the livelihood requirements for the right to live with your family and to receive a permanent residence permit. In the new asylum legislation to replace the temporary law, the government is on the same track. In this way, S wants to create the same imbalances in the power of asylum legislation as already exists in labour migration. It is difficult to interpret in other ways than that the desire to prevent and make it more difficult for people from other countries to come to Sweden has become the chief goal of the Social Democrats. It is even superior to the historical struggle of the labour movement for equal rights and greater power for the worker in the labour market. It is possible that it is believed that it is successful to try to satisfy the brown right to stop an election flight. But it is not only indecent; it is a strategy of defeat. It is a defeat strategy for the newly arrived employee who is left to the employer for his future security and the opportunity to meet his family. It makes it easy to take advantage of, easy to underpay, grab and replace and easy to silence. But it is also a defeat strategy for the colleague who works next door. The employee collective is never stronger than the most insecure in the labour market. It is above all a defeat strategy for the labour movement. A fragmented employee collective where insecurity is driven by a newly arrived working class is more exposed and insecure in the labour market. It is an employee collective who loses the strength of cohesion and solidarity. Without solidarity, the defences and welfare systems that the labour movement has built up for those who live and work in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The question for the day is why the Social Democrats choose to do this.
i-d630173e4b73466c-176	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank my colleague Christina Höja Larsen, who raises such an important issue here in Parliament. Hungry wolves hunt best, don't they, Morgan Johansson? Isn't that right? This is the view of the right-wing parties of all time has had on the working class. The more hungry and the more insecure the worker is, the more motivated it becomes and the more it will want to work. We can see that the Social Democrats have had the same view of new arrivals for a long time. Instead of humanitarian reasons, rights or decent start-up perspectives, efforts have been made to scare people away and make ever more stringent demands. The Chairman of the Social Democrats of the Social Security Committee wrote the other week in Svenska Dagbladet: ..................................................... Is that something to seek? Do the Social Democrats understand the consequences for people in need of protection, for people who have been torn from their families, and what it does for society in general, especially with a group that is consistently exposed to the injustice of the government? Just because the Social Democrats want to be tougher, the link with the labour market is not improved by temporary permits and by additional demands. Restrictions on the possibility of permanent residence leave mean that employability and not the need for protection determines who receives permanent protection. This in itself is a violation of the principles of asylum law. And that in itself allows for an imbalance of power in the labour market. We know who will pay the price again. We have also seen over the years what the shift of power to employers has led to. We have seen how society's most vulnerable and marginalised are exploited in the labour market. It is about direct exploitation, about long working days without rest, about so-called test jobs without wages and about some thousand a month that is not even enough for rent. You may have survived to get to Sweden, but this is not the way to survive. It has been set in the system that it is the employer who informs the authorities about employment. It is the employer who certifies during checks. It is the employer who can threaten to go to the Migration Agency if the employee complains or refuses. It is often the employer who decides whether the employee may stay or be expelled. If you have nothing, no papers or sources of income, it is easy to get into the grip of those who exploit and in undeclared work without any rights at all. Civil society organisations have long criticised and pointed out the problem of people being exploited in working life. People accept jobs under slave-like conditions. That's how the situation is. LO makes the same criticism. The Minister of State does not come from the fact that all the knowledge and knowledge in this area shows that the reluctance that comes with permanent residence permits and with the possibility of living with their family enhances the possibility of establishment. What is needed and needed is security and community, just as ordinary workers need in the labour market. As soon as such security is not created for the target group we are talking about today, we face unfair, poor working conditions and even more vulnerability. Here, the Minister for Migration must look beyond political interests, for that would be the right, the right, the right and the decent.
i-d630173e4b73466c-185	Madam President, I would like We heard a very empty answer from the Minister here. I note, however, the closing pin where Morgan Johansson in an innovative way suggests that an actively enforced existential uncertainty in the existence of certain people in Sweden favours a humane, legally secure and effective association in the country. I can note both from my own journey in Swedish society and from other knowledge about how individuals and communities work in reality that we have different starting points. Above all, this is something that Morgan Johansson does not say that shines brightest in the post. We heard from a Social Democratic minister an answer completely renons to reasoning that could indicate a foundation in the labour movement. Even if it were too optimistic, it could have been thought that the answer at least touched on the concerns and criticisms that the trade union movement in Sweden has come up with and that my colleague Christina Höj Larsen referred to in her interpellation. There is nothing that gives a glimpse of the Minister's concern or even seems to be aware of the existence of a labour market and a working life in Sweden affected by these decisions. Madam President, I would like When the government of Reinfeldt, together with the Green Party, pushed through a new framework for labour immigration, we were many, including Morgan Johansson's party, who warned of the impact of building a regulatory framework in which people in a very vulnerable social situation would be made dependent on the goodwill of individual employers. We suspected that this would lead to the exploitation of people, dumping of conditions in parts of the world of work and foam companies who are shoeing themselves. Unfortunately, reality has given us the right answer, and it has been necessary to try to stem some of the shortcomings that the regulatory framework so obviously invited. Now, however, Morgan Johansson, with cheers from the right, is prepared to actively create such conditions in the conditions for something that can become many more people in Sweden. This would have a greater impact on the labour market here. This is what awaits, in addition to the suffering that people are being subjected to who seek protection in Sweden. We are already seeing a taste of this in the effects of the temporary law and the groups that are currently being squeezed into the asylum system. A few days ago one could read a report in Dagens Nyheter with the title One of the interviewees tells you that you get a test job without pay. They tell about the salary paid out on paper but then go back to the owner. We also know that there are companies that want to sell work contracts for expensive money. It opens up opportunities to exploit people through drug trafficking, sexual abuse and other criminal activities. Why? Because Morgan Johansson and the coalition of willing ones he has gathered in migration policy would rather send a deterrent signal than take responsibility for the creation of sensible and solidarity solutions that strengthen our society rather than pull it apart. The fact that political and economic forces that have never had equality and solidarity as guiding principles are attracted to such a policy is understandable. But frankly, it is rather sad that a Social Democratic minister is competing to stand in the same anti-labour corner. Perhaps I may rephrase the question contained in the interpellation: how is it that the Minister wants to draw up residence permit rules in a way that leads to an unwanted balance of power on the Swedish labour market in favour of employers? How is it that you want it even though it so clearly gives worse conditions for the integration of the people who have come to Sweden?
i-d630173e4b73466c-193	Madam President, I would like I understand that you think my answer was bureaucratic and empty. Then let us remedy it. I would be happy to have an ideological discussion about this with the Left Party. This is where a great difference is revealed between Social Democrats and left-wing parties. It is so terribly easy for left-wing parties to say that people have rights. But it is also so terribly difficult for left-wing parties to say that people also have responsibilities, that they have certain responsibilities, that they have responsibilities to their fellows, but also to society in which they live in general. I never hear any left-wing party talk about people having certain responsibilities. For us Social Democrats, this is part of the way we conduct politics. It is part of our history: right and duty. Rights and obligations are what the welfare state – the welfare state on which we Social Democrats have been involved in building – rests. People should have social rights, the right to work, the right to housing, the right to a good upbringing when they are children, the right to education, but they also have certain obligations. These obligations include doing what you can to contribute to society. You should educate yourself so that you can get a job and be able to take care of yourself, your family and your relatives. You should be a part of society; you should do what you can. Right and duty rests on the social democratic welfare society. This is also an important part of our history when we talk about the Social Democratic line of work. It's always been. Support, training and access to the labour market must be provided. But you also have to work on your own and make sure to do what you can to really accept all the support and other things that exist. In this way, our social security systems are built up. My question to the Left Party is: do you also want to abolish the benefits earned? It is the case that when you work you get a health insurance based on the income you have. You get a pension based on the income you've had. You get an unemployment fund based on the income you've had. Do you want to abolish this too? Is this setting too high standards? Madam President, I would like This actually reveals a difference. Our position is that people have both rights and obligations. This is also reflected in the proposal on which the report is concerned. You get a temporary residence permit, but after three years you have the opportunity to apply for a permanent residence permit. In order to be able to get it, you should be able to support yourself and have basic knowledge of Swedish and basic knowledge of how Swedish society works. It will also be a practical test, i.e. you should not have committed any serious crimes. Is that too much to ask? Is it too high a requirement if you are to live in this country permanently to be able to make a living? We are talking about a supply requirement of 15 000, 16 000 or 17 000 SEK per month. That's pretty much where it's gonna be. Is this too much to ask? If you are going to live permanently in this country, is it too much to ask that you have basic knowledge of Swedish? Is it too much to ask that there is a requirement to know about how Swedish society works? I do not think so, but it is quite obvious. Rather, this promotes integration. It makes you have something to look forward to. The possibility of obtaining a permanent residence permit is based on the fact that this has been achieved. Of course, you should get all the support, help and education that Swedish society can provide. But in my view, Madam President, there must be a reasonable balance between rights and obligations. I say that it has been a fundamental part of the social democratic welfare system throughout the ages.
i-d630173e4b73466c-203	Madam President, I would like I understand that the Minister for Migration does not want to talk about what we are asking questions about, namely the imbalance of power that really exists now on the labour market and the consequences that we see. When the Temporary Restrictions Act was presented, LO was very critical, as the rules are completely similar to the rules for labour immigration. These have certainly opened the door to widespread abuse. Fears have come true. Ali Esbati just told me about a report in DN that I think we've all read. It describes how Erfan, Naqib and many others with temporary residence permits are forced to work 13-hour passports for 7 000 SEK per month but have contracts that on paper meet the requirements for permanent residence permits. Some are forced to pay back part of their salary to employers. Some companies want to sell employment contracts for 160 000 SEK. It's just like labour immigration. The police in Stockholm say they see this all the time. It is about people who are totally vulnerable and who do not dare to say anything because they will then be listed to the Migration Agency. I would like to remind you of that trade union promise. We promise and assure that never, under any circumstances, work on worse terms or at lower wages than what we have now promised each other. We promise each other this in the deep understanding that if we all keep this promise, the employer must meet our requirements. This is what the trade union promise is. It is a promise that will ensure that colleagues are not put against each other in the workplace. Unfortunately, the Social Democrats' migration policy effectively breaks the conditions for newly arrived employees with either work permits or temporary permits to keep that promise. How can you say against sexual harassment or sexual exploitation if the possibility of staying in Sweden or seeing your children again is at stake? How can you require a safe working environment with protective equipment and safe procedures if you know that the employer can dump you at the minimum? How can you demand the wages promised or the regulated working hours on paper if you know that the employer who stops the salary in your pocket also has the power over your future? And, above all, how can we make use of the trade union community and solidarity when we are so vulnerable? I note, Madam President, that the migration policy of the Social Democrats increases the vulnerability of the labour market and gives employers more power. The Social Democrats obviously do not see newcomers as part of the workers' collective. The question is, do they realize where it leads? Why should Naqib risk the security of a permanent residence permit because he wants the same right to reasonable working hours as Hanna? Why shouldn't Erfan have the same power to speak up when the boss doesn't pay the salary he promised? Why should Fatemeh risk her opportunity to see her children because she won't let the boss touch her? This is the reality of the labour market we are discussing today. I want to know how the Minister for Migration views this situation and what he intends to do to put an end to it.
i-d630173e4b73466c-216	Madam President, I would like We did not get an answer to the interpellation, so I thank Morgan Johansson for the answer now. One thing I will make damn clear to the Social Democrats and the Minister for Migration, and that is that people have rights. The fact that Morgan Johansson suddenly turns people into liability bearers and makes rights issues points of order says everything about the right-wing policy he seeks. It is clear that the Minister for Migration must look beyond short-term political interests. I think it is time for him to talk about the issues we raise in the debate today. What needs to be done is to offer permanent residence permits and good opportunities for family reunification. Every Social Democrat should strive for that. I believe that international solidarity and labour law were important key words when Morgan Johansson stepped into the Social Democrats. Today we hear something quite different. Now even people born outside Sweden must not be part of the workers' collective. Why isn't the Minister of Migration resuming a balance of power that gives all the workers the same power to turn their backs on the boss? Why should not all workers have the same right to reasonable working hours and wages? Instead, we have an increased imbalance of power that puts workers at risk in the worst unthinkable way. We've seen harder work. We have heard about requests for reimbursement under the table and longer working hours. The worst of all in such a situation is silence. In a vulnerable situation, you cannot speak up because you are constantly threatened. You have something hanging over you. This imbalance of power in asylum legislation affects all of us. Quiet workplaces affect us all.
i-d630173e4b73466c-220	I would kindly remind the honourable Member that profanity does not belong in Parliament's pulpit.
i-d630173e4b73466c-221	Madam President, I would like The Minister tried an ideological debate – with quite limited success, I would say, because it was unclear who he was arguing against. None of us who are in this debate has questioned any obligations that would be removed from people. We're talking about equal rights and obligations, and that's the point. We also do not want to remove any earned income loss insurance. It is possible that this is a frustration that comes from the fact that the Minister has had to argue against the government colleges of the MP or those with whom he cooperates in the Liberals and the Center Party. We strongly support this type of insurance. However, we also support the right to health insurance when you are ill and the right to compensation if you become unemployed and are part of the systems. That's the point here. You're supposed to be in the system. Otherwise, you are in such a vulnerable situation that it becomes problematic also for everyone else. Everyone else who is working and working in this society will feel what it means that in the labour market a large group of people will be desperate and will thus be able to take any job under any conditions. That is the idea of solidarity that makes LO criticise in its referrals, and that is the idea of solidarity that is completely lacking in the Minister's response. The question is here: What is the positive thing about placing people in limbo in Sweden? That's what's at the core here. Unfortunately, I believe that this is a bad signal policy on the part of Morgan Johansson. It is distressing both in itself and because it leads to so great problems for so many people in Sweden today.
i-d630173e4b73466c-224	Madam President, I would like Who am I arguing with? I am, of course, arguing against the others who are taking part in the debate. After all, you question all the requirements for permanent residence permits. You mean there should be no such requirement. That's what I'm arguing with. In welfare policy as a whole and in integration policy, one must have both rights and obligations. That is why there must also be requirements. What I'm arguing with is your attitude. You seem to want to go back to the old system, that is, to have permanent residence permits from the first day. I would like to recall what happened in 2015. In 2015, Sweden received 163,000 asylum seekers. 12% of all asylum seekers who came to the EU came to Sweden. We had an asylum system that was falling apart. 10,000 a week came when it was at its most almost exactly five years ago. At that time we went forward with austerity: border controls, ID checks and the temporary law. The Left Party voted against all those austerity measures. Had the Left Party got what they wanted on that occasion, the asylum system would have collapsed. By then we might have had another 100,000 asylum seekers in 2016. We couldn't have done that. But it's history now. What led to the refugee crisis? Well, it was that Sweden had legislation that completely deviated from what was in force in the rest of the EU. We had the most generous asylum policy in the EU. Among other things, it was that we were the only country that actually had permanent residence permits from the first day. It is no wonder that people are seeking the country that has the most generous legislation in the EU. Then it'll be exactly that way. We are not going to do that again, but the proposal that is now on the table is about a transition to temporary residence permits. In other words, like almost all other countries, we should have temporary residence permits. Asylum is applied for in Sweden. If you are being persecuted or fleeing from war, you should have the right to be protected for a period of time. The question then arises: When should a permanent residence permit be granted? When should there be an opportunity for one to stay here in Sweden permanently? We say that there should be certain requirements for that. If you intend to remain in Sweden, become part of the country and perhaps eventually get citizenship, there should be some obligations associated with this. That is why we are imposing the supply requirement. You shouldn't have committed any serious crimes. One should also have basic knowledge of Swedish and how society works. We managed the refugee crisis in these years. Many said that public finances would fail and unemployment would increase. Some also said that impaired integration would be an effect of the temporary law. It was the other way around. In fact, the rate of integration almost doubled in the sense that the time it took for a new arrival to enter Swedish society was halved in relation to the alliance years. Integration was thus improved in these years, despite the criticism that was then brought forward against the temporary law in the consultation document. So we managed that crisis. But the fundamental ideological question here is about the attitude to be taken towards people. Should they only have rights, or should they also have obligations? Labour market imbalances must be combated, but they must be combated through trade union struggles and by increased sanctions against the employers who commit these crimes. That is exactly what we have done in recent years, and I intend to continue with this kind of pressure on employers that is abusing the system.
i-d630173e4b73466c-230	Madam President, I would like The government is asking what we're arguing about. We argue against people being insecure, hungry, and serf. The same argument that the Right has had at all times against the working class, we now hear that the Social Democrats have. That's what we're talking about. I am astounded, Madam President, to hear that a minister who is a social democrat cannot talk about or answer perfectly reasonable questions about the labour market and the link with the migration policy that shifts the balance of power between employers and workers. Not wanting to talk about the labour market is, I think, a defeat for a social democrat. But perhaps it is the most comfortable thing, because it must be difficult to explain why one of the labour movement's parties repeatedly chooses to weaken the position of employees in the labour market and, with it, also chooses to strike at the solidarity that is actually the absolute superpower of the labour movement. The division that S now chooses to join, driven by the blue-brown gang, is and remains a defeat strategy for all of us who believe in the right to security, freedom and welfare. I am absolutely convinced, Madam President, that both Åkesson and the bourgeoisie thank the government for the division it creates. But the working class, Madam President, will not do so.
i-d630173e4b73466c-234	Madam President, I would like I think that this debate has been revealing in the way that the Left Party has once again shown that it is happy to talk about all rights but never ever about any obligations. For me as a social democrat, it goes hand in hand. In fact, that is how the Social Democratic welfare state is built. You have both parts. Labour market imbalances, how do they be addressed? How do you make sure that there are not only jobs but good jobs, secure jobs and jobs with pay that you can make a living on? Well, we design the system so that you can't get a permanent residence permit if you work for free and don't have any income. The system currently proposed should be based on the employer paying money to the Swedish Tax Agency and taking care of that part so that we know that it is real wages that you get. It is also, of course, a question of ensuring that there is very high pressure and pressure on employers, not least on those who abuse the systems. I have been involved in doubling penalties for employers who exploit illegal labour. We did that last term of office. I have also been involved in increasing the possibilities for the police to carry out workplace inspections where they can take the employers who use people in this way. I am well aware that the labour immigration system we have today is designed in such a way that it invites exploitation. I want to do something about that, and we are also reviewing those very rules. We can imagine going very far to tighten it up. But from there to saying that we should not make any demands on people who come to Sweden and that they should not have any obligations or duties, the step is quite far. I believe that if we are to have good integration in Sweden, it is about both rights and obligations, Madam President, about both right and duty.
i-d630173e4b73466c-240	Madam President, I would like Sofia Westergren has asked me whether I intend to review the question of the suitability and consequences of the consumer's statute covering the purchase of live animals, particularly in the light of the fact that horses and other animals may be harmed during legal proceedings and that it hampers the trade in horses. The Consumer Sales Law applies when a trader sells goods to a consumer. The law applies to the purchase of live animals, and so it was also in the old consumer's Sales Law that came into being in the early 70's. In recent years, work has been under way in the EU to modernise the regulatory framework in the field of consumer law. The work resulted in two new EU directives last year. Sweden referred early in the negotiations to the fact that the issue of the purchase of live animals was something that should be addressed. In the further discussions, Sweden heard the view that those Member States that want to be allowed to decide on the application of other rules in whole or in part to animal purchases. Sofia Westergren's claim that the government would not have acted in accordance with the Riksdag's announcement is therefore incorrect. Sweden not only raised the issue in the Council Working Group but also had success in the negotiations. It is important that we have appropriate consumer purchasing rules in Sweden. Consumers must have a high level of protection, but there must also be a good balance between the interests of consumers and traders. I think it is important that the regulations provide good conditions for trading horses, dogs and other animals in Sweden. But the challenge is that there is no easy way to solve what some traders experience as problems when selling animals without at the same time reducing consumer protection. Parliament, too, seems to have an insight into the complexity of this issue. The call to the government has been to initiate considerations if the rules are properly designed. The Riksdag has not, as Sofia Westergren claims, decided that animals should be exempted from the consumer buying rules. In the beginning of autumn, the study on new consumer purchasing rules presented proposals on how to implement EU directives in Sweden. A completely new consumer protection law is proposed. The study also proposes some specific rules on the purchase of live animals with a view to achieving a more appropriate balance between the various interests in this area. The period of referral expired a few weeks ago, and the proposals are now being prepared in the Government Office. The issues are important, and the government intends to return when the preparation is complete.
i-d630173e4b73466c-246	Madam President, I would like The Consumer Sales Law works in some respects poorly for trade in more expensive animals such as horses, dogs and cats. I intend to talk about the horse trade. The Consumer Sales Law is intended to strengthen the consumer in the business with traders and works well when it comes to the purchase of goods such as white goods and other technical products where it is clear that the trader has more knowledge than the private individual, who rarely makes these purchases. If the refrigerator does not work after installation, or if after two years it turns out to be a manufacturing fault, it is possible to fix it, or the seller may be able to deliver a new refrigerator. However, please note that the Consumer Sales Law does not apply if the goods in question have not been properly handled or handled in accordance with the applicable manual. In the case of a horse, the relationship is not so obvious or simple. Horses are often sold by a small breeder who sells a single horse per year, and it is not possible to give a guarantee on something that is so affected by the new owner. Many horses are destroyed by enthusiastic but ignorant owners, and then the seller stands there with a This is an unreasonable situation. When returning to the seller, a horse that does not work at the buyer's premises may begin to function again because the new owner has not had sufficient competence. But just as often the horse is torn apart, miscarried and destroyed. A horse depends on so many parts of its care to function. The puzzle with outdoor stay, training, lining, hoovarders and not least the owner should work to make a horse feel good and perform as intended. A mismanaged horse should as little as a mismanaged refrigerator be covered by the Consumer Sales Law. The Consumer Sales Law is also process-driven, and animals are unfortunately often squeezed during the process. The horse does not receive the training and care that the animal needs for its well-being. The separate regulation that the investigator for e beats is not enough. Interpretation does not mean that separate regulation would reduce processes either in number or on time. The EU is now giving Sweden the opportunity to move live animals away from the Consumer Sales Law and place them in, for example, the Sales Law. It is better, above all, for the animals but also for the parties involved in the purchase, where greater clarity needs to apply. Madam President, I would like In view of this, I ask the Minister whether he agrees that animals are adversely affected when they become involved in a legal process and are without formal owners as well as care and care for as long as legal proceedings usually last.
i-d630173e4b73466c-255	Madam President, I would like On the first issue of form, I would like to reiterate that the government thus acted in the negotiations in the European Union and had this opportunity for Member States to have special rules. In fact, this would not have happened if Sweden did not push the issue; it was we who raised it, with the support of the Riksdag. In substance, of course, this is a balance between the rights of the buyer and the seller. The Purchase Act applies to trade between traders and also to trade between private individuals, while the Consumer Sales Law applies to trade between a trader and a consumer. The protection of the buyer is therefore, of course, greater in the Consumer Sales Law than in the Sales Law. If trade in horses were instead covered by the Sales Law, consumer protection would de facto be weakened. The risk of a horse buyer being tricked increases. I think we can perhaps agree that protection as such is becoming weaker for the consumer. You can think about which way to go. I have a daughter who rides. We don't own horses. But if we were to buy a horse– I hope my daughter doesn't listen to this, because it might raise some expectations– and it would then turn out to be sick, maybe in the back so you can't ride on it, I'll feel cheated, especially if I think the seller knew about this from the beginning, when I bought the horse. Then I must have the opportunity to get right against the seller in that respect. This is entirely hypothetical, of course – we have no plans to buy a horse. This balance between the buyer's and the seller's rights needs to be maintained in any case. The investigator has proposed this compromise because the investigator sees this issue and that it is a specific case. The investigator proposes some form of investigation in the case of more expensive purchases, i.e. when it comes to animals that cost from about SEK 5 000 – there the limit will be, according to the proposal. The duty of investigation is for the buyer to examine the animal, and if this is not done, the buyer will end up in a weaker position in a later process. The investigator also proposes an opportunity to agree on the reversal of the burden of proof that exists during the first six months. That is how the legislation is designed: during the first six months, the consumer must first show that there is an error, and then it is the seller who has to show that this error was not original. This is what is called the reversed burden of proof of original error. The investigator proposes in the investigation proposal that this rule be removed. As I said, the government has not yet put its foot down on this issue. The referral period has just expired, and we have not taken a stand. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that I understand that the trade in animals is special, but I also believe that there must continue to be consumer protection and a good balance between buyers and sellers.
i-d630173e4b73466c-262	Madam President, I would like If the minister had bought a pony for his child and it would turn out that it gets pain in the back, it may be a condition called peeing spins, where the vertebrae come close to each other. It is often in the case of equestrian changes that this shows up. At least I will comfort the Minister that many world cup horses who have proven to have peeing spins can work well with training and proper handling, if we take this as an example of how important the handling of these incredibly fragile animals is. The crux of the matter here is that the trader may not always have had the opportunity to know a hidden error like peeing spins, where a horse has a bit of back pain. The seller has no way of knowing that an X-ray finding like pee spins can be found in the horse, which could lead to back pain. A horse can go to the World Cup, but if the same pony or horse stays in competition for a buyer who bought it for his child and the buyer goes around to some veterinarians who find that it has X-ray findings in the form of peeing spins, the buyer has the right to return it. This could be a sum of over $100,000. In the past, there has also been a need to pay quite a lot of expenses for the pony or horse, which can exceed this $100,000. You might get an invoice of half a million or more. It is therefore a matter of very large money, and it affects very small traders. The economy affects the whole family. Besides, you can get the horse back. You then need to educate it, gain confidence and get it out of competition before it is marketable again. That process could take about a year. It can go faster, but it can also take even longer before you have something completely different to sell. In view of this, I would like to ask the Minister whether he can see that live animals still need to be removed from the Consumer Sales Law in order to be covered by, for example, the Sales Law. Can the Minister see that the small breeder who ends up under the Consumer Sales Law is not really in the same position as, for example, a manufacturer who makes a refrigerator? It is the animals who pay the highest price. Nevertheless, we are now in the 2020s and may be able to protect animal rights more than when the Consumer Sales Law came into being. Can the Minister also see that there is a risk that the Consumer Sales Law will hamper the Swedish sale of horses, when the legal relationship looks like it actually does?
i-d630173e4b73466c-267	Madam President, I would like The government has not yet put its foot down, as I said; we will do so in the spring. We are starting with this report now, and the period for referral has just expired. I'm aware of peeing spins-- I know what it is and how it works. I also know that in retrospect it may be difficult to know exactly when it arose. At the same time – if the seller knows about this when the horse is sold, a consumer will feel cheated, simply. There must be an opportunity to get it right in that situation. I am well aware that the purchase and sale of expensive animals is a special case. That is also why this compromise proposal is included in the investigation, which means that in the case of more expensive purchases over one tenth of the basic amount – then we land at about SEK 5 000 – there should be a form of investigation duty, so that the buyer should have a survey made in order to detect, among other things, this type of error. If it is not done for any reason, the buyer will be in a worse position for a future process. Then you'll have to stand up a little bit. I think this is quite a reasonable construction, without definitely putting down the foot. It's the same thing when you buy a house. A wise household buyer makes sure to inspect the house you are going to buy so that you know if there are any faults and if so, what they look like. There is also a proposal that the reversal of the burden of proof on these purchases be fully agreed out; this is also part of the investigation's proposal. I can't say much more about this right now. The preparation continues, and we will see what the investigation proposal looks like. It will be exciting to see how the consultation bodies receive it. In any case, there is a proposal here which makes it possible to treat this type of purchase differently.
i-d630173e4b73466c-273	Madam President, I would like I'll take the opportunity to send the minister some happy cheers into the work. There is a need to look at animal rights and the risk of a procedural consumer purchasing law. I've seen too many horses and ponies that get hurt. I have especially seen many ponies who go out and compete many weekends a month. Now the Swedish Riding Sports Federation has taken hold of this. You are no longer allowed to compete in as many classes as in my time when I was young and was on the race tracks. So much work has been done for the good of the animals. The Consumer Sales Law was created in the early 1970s. Now we're in the 2020s. We must look at the welfare of animals, and here I am thinking of the well-being of the horse. What is now happening in Swedish legislation is completely unreasonable. We have not previously had the opportunity to remove the live animals from the Consumer Sales Law, but that possibility now exists. However, the specific regulations and derogations proposed by the investigator are not sufficient to safeguard the welfare of animals. Then it is very good that has been arrived at, such as this with a limited reversal of the burden of proof. That's something you should definitely have credated for. But we need to do something more to stand up for the animals, for the horse. Thank you for the debate.
i-d630173e4b73466c-277	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned, it is a question of a balance between the rights of the buyer and the rights of the seller. I think there must be reasonable protection for the buyer. The buyer is often not himself a trader, but it can be a person who simply buys a horse for his children to ride on, and then it turns out that the horse does not function as a riding horse. If the seller has known this before it must be able to exercise a right to allow the purchase to go back or to be replaced in some way. That is precisely the balance we must have. As I said, there is a proposal for a special regulation for more expensive purchases with a duty of investigation and with the possibility of cancelling the reverse burden of proof. We continue to prepare this in the Government Office, and we will return to the Riksdag during the spring. Here we need to come forward with proposals this spring for the directive to come into force on 1 July next year. It is a question on which we must take a position until then, quite simply. But we'll get back to you when we've been able to analyze the referrals and see where we're going to land. However, I think it is a reasonable balance that has been made in the investigation, although I have not definitely put my foot down there.
i-d630173e4b73466c-279	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me whether I intend to take measures to tighten the penalties for violent and sexual crimes and whether I and the government intend to take measures to prevent future crimes like those described in the interpellation. The fight against crime is a long-term work that is a high priority of the government. Sweden should be a safe country to live in. A key issue for reducing crime and increasing security is improving the conditions for the police to carry out their mission. The expansion of the Police Authority is an important part of this. By mid-year we were halfway towards the government's target of 10,000 more police workers, and nearly 3,000 police students are on their way out in the coming years. In the field of criminal law, the government is doing a very active job. At the government's initiative, the minimum penalties have been tightened for, among other things, aggravated rape, aggravated robbery, aggravated assault, particularly aggravated assault, gross illegal coercion and gross illegal threat. V idar has the government reformed sexual crime legislation, and Sweden has now the most stringent legislation we have ever had. However, further measures are needed to strengthen legislation on sex offences. The Government has therefore commissioned a special investigator to review, among other things, the scale of penalties for sexual offences and make suggestions for any changes that may be needed to adequately reflect the seriousness of the crimes. In the case of robbery, it is questionable whether the current scale of penalties reflects the seriousness of the crime. The Government has therefore instructed a special investigator to consider and, if necessary, propose an increased minimum penalty for robbery. In addition, proposals are being prepared for the abolition of penalties for 18 to 20-year-olds for crimes with a minimum sentence of one year's imprisonment, i.e. crimes such as rape, robbery and aggravated assault. If the proposal is implemented, there will be longer and more prison sentences for such crime. In order also to combat the causes of crime, a long-term and structured crime prevention work involving the whole of society is needed. Therefore, the government has developed the National Crime Prevention Programme, Together against Crime. The Government intends to return shortly with an account of measures in accordance with the objectives of the programme.
i-d630173e4b73466c-287	Madam President, I would like This week, the trial of the two immigrant youths who committed the rape robbery in Solna Cemetery was under way. It was the night between 22 and 23 August this year that the abuse took place, and now we hope that the perpetrators will be sentenced to long prison sentences. However, all available empirical evidence from other cases of youth robbery with humiliation suggests that this will not be the case, even if this particular act stands out with its brutality. Instead, it is extremely likely that both perpetrators will receive Morgan Johansson's youth discount, when they are 18 and 21 years old respectively. Both perpetrators are aware that the current government does not take crime seriously – they have learned this from the times they have been convicted of crime in the past. The victims had no previous relationship with the perpetrators, and the whole thing was unprovoked. However, the perpetrators did not just rob the boys of their valuables but also demanded account details to get more out of the robbery. Had it stayed there, it would have been like most other robberies that young Swedes are subjected to daily, but that was not the case. Instead, the abuse lasted for several hours. The boys were kicked, beaten, forced to undress naked, beaten with shovels, stabbed and anally raped with various objects found by the perpetrators. During parts of the abuse, they had had their eyes covered with an blindfold, had pieces of cloth thrown into their mouths, and both hands and legs were tied. In the course of events, the boys were repeatedly threatened: they would have penises and ears cut off, their noses would be crushed, a gun would be picked up, they would be buried alive and so on. One of the victims described how it felt during the night of horror that he was showering in blood, lying there undressed and tortured. Of course, these two young people are not alone, but there are plenty of examples of how young people from immigrant backgrounds have robbed, humiliated and seriously harmed other young people. It can be assumed that the victims have not always been selected at random, but that, on the contrary, there has been a desire to commit crimes against Swedes. Of course, it can only be guessed why this has been the case in some of the high-profile youth robberies, but I fear with several that it is rooted in contempt for the Swedish majority society and all that is perceived to be part of it, including Swedes. Now I know from before that Morgan Johansson does not recognise Swedish hostility, why we do not need to debate it again, but my question is rather broader in nature. The government has repeatedly argued that under no circumstances does it even have the slightest responsibility for over 7 000 Swedes having died from covid-19. Is the attitude of the government and Morgan Johansson similar when it comes to youth robbery, a phenomenon that has increased by 250 percent since 2013? Can the government at least to some extent be blamed, according to Morgan Johansson, or is it refusing to take responsibility here too?
i-d630173e4b73466c-296	I would like to remind you that we are not discussing individual pending legal proceedings in this House. I hope everyone respects that. The court proceedings are still ongoing, and that is not the subject of a debate in this House.
i-d630173e4b73466c-297	Madam President, I would like I can only underline what the President has to say. Here again, we have heard Tobias Andersson revel in all the details of an atrocious crime, and I am not going to do so. Firstly, because it is an ongoing legal process, partly because I also have too much respect for the victims of crime to do so. Tobias Andersson doesn't give a damn about the victims at this point. He just wants to do party politics. Victims of crime should, in my opinion, not have to be props for politicians who just want to stand in the spotlight. Moreover, it is remarkable to anticipate the legal process in this way and speculate wildly in the motive, as Tobias Andersson does. It's an ongoing trial. Neither I nor Tobias Andersson can speak out on the issue of guilt. It is courts that judge in Sweden, not politicians in parliament. As a matter of fact, the government has nothing to be ashamed of when it comes to punitive measures. I said in my interpellation response that we have tightened the penalties for aggravated rape, aggravated robbery, aggravated assault, particularly aggravated assault, gross illegal coercion and gross illegal threat. In addition, we have extended the law on aggravated rape so that more crimes can be judged as serious. These include young victims of crime, as is the case here. The idea is that the new legislation should be applied so that more rape offences against young victims should be assessed as serious. There's a good scale of punishment for that kind of disgusting crime. We have tightened the penalties for them and we will introduce further tightening. In my interpellation response, I said we're going to do a new review of the sexual crimes. Now Sweden has the strictest sex crime legislation ever. We introduced consent legislation at the end of the last parliamentary term, and we are now generally looking at the scale of penalties for sexual offences, including normal rape. We're reviewing the penalty scales for robbery. There's a sitting investigation. I would like to see a system similar to that of serious gun crimes, that is to say that there is also a presumption of arrest for robbery so that you are not released in anticipation of trial – which is happening today many times in the case of robbery. We're increasing the possibilities of detention there. We are working on a proposal to remove the penalty for young people. It will apply to all crimes with a penalty value of over a year's imprisonment, which is the kind of crime we are talking about here. At the same time, Madam President, we are now also seeing the result of the great police effort. The police now have more money than ever. There are more cops than ever. There are more employees in the agency than ever before. More are re-recruited who have previously left the corps and will now return. There are also fewer who quit than before. Here we continue to strengthen the police organisation gradually in the coming years. I cannot comment on the issue of guilt on this issue, but serious crimes must, of course, be punished and prosecuted. We have ensured that there are now substantial scales of penalties and police resources to carry out such investigations in the future.
i-d630173e4b73466c-306	Madam President, I would like The specific crime I touched upon in my primary post has been widely known for a long time. I assume the court is doing its job. I touched on the crime in a broader context. Without interfering in any way with the outcome of the court proceedings now taking place, I think it is a serious crime that has been committed. But that is not the only thing, but I want to have a general debate. Madam President, I would like Morgan Johansson always does this in his written answers as well as in these contributions. Like a broken tape recorder, he repeats himself and rebuffs various actions that he and the government have carried out or are investigating. Just as if in any way it would excuse the fact that youth robbery has increased by 250 per cent since 2013. Of course, I am in favour of the government meeting us at times and implementing SD proposals, but that is not enough. Morgan Johansson and the government must also allow themselves to be self-critical and understand that more needs to be done. Some time ago we hit last year's total number of shootings. Not a single murder in Malmö has been solved since Morgan Johansson took office as Minister. To a large extent, every other Swedish person experiences concerns about being a victim of crime. Over 80 percent of the population experience an increase in crime in the last three years. Every other woman between the ages of 20 and 24 often worries about being raped or sexually abused. All of this is at the same time as gross violent and sexual offenders are sentenced to a poor prison sentence that neither generates redress for the victims of crime nor is in line with the general public's view of law. Four out of five foreign citizens convicted of rape may remain in Morgan Johansson's Sweden. Only one is expelled. It is so bad that the government is now not only allowing this to continue but also arming the thugs. Of the handful of guns that disappeared from the Government Office, one has now been recovered from a person charged with attempted murder. Madam President, I would like You can't believe it! No such thing can be made up. There is no Swedish writer who would come up with such a story, because it would be considered too much like fiction. But it's not. It's happening for real. A telling example of the problem is that the two perpetrators associated with the rape robbery in Solna laughed in the courtroom. It was not me they laughed at, it was not a mem they laughed at, but they laughed at Morgan Johansson and the government. They laughed because they know what a joke our justice system is. I asked Morgan Johansson in my previous speech if the government has any responsibility for the youth robbery. When it comes to the specific youth robbery, the government has it; it is not possible to get away from it. Without prejudicing legal proceedings or interfering with the guilt issue, it can be noted that one of the perpetrators was previously convicted of arson and would have been locked up at the time of the crime. In other words, the lives of two young people have been destroyed as a direct consequence of Morgan Johansson's shortcomings as Minister. Does Morgan Johansson not feel guilty about this?
i-d630173e4b73466c-313	I would remind you that individual legal cases and proceedings, as well as individuals who are part of them, should not be debated in this House.
i-d630173e4b73466c-314	Madam President, I would like I can only say that Tobias Andersson is once again anticipating a legal process. He's talking about the perpetrators. Even in the interpellation itself, he picks up both perpetrators. It's an ongoing trial. It is courts that judge in Sweden, not politicians in parliament. Sweden is a rule of law. The fundamental element of the rule of law is to await court proceedings before identifying any of the perpetrators or perpetrators. That should have been understood by Tobias Andersson at this point. He's been in Parliament for a while anyway. We don't do that. It is remarkable that Tobias Andersson says that Morgan Johansson is always ripping up a lot of measures, as if they were an excuse, and wondering what responsibility Morgan Johansson has. That is no excuse in any way to account for the measures we are taking. On the contrary, it is precisely our responsibility. Our responsibility is to take action against this type of crime through, among other things, increased penalties and increased police resources. That is exactly why I am presenting all those measures. These are more severe penalties in a wide range of respects, namely aggravated rape, aggravated robbery, aggravated assault, particularly aggravated assault, gross illegal threats and grossly illegal coercion. I could add that we tightened the penalties for serious gun crimes so that there is now a presumption of detention. Thus, those suspected of serious weapons offences can be arrested automatically and not released again – sometimes on the same day, as it was before. In addition, the government has extended the law room for aggravated rape, so that more are convicted of aggravated rape now than before. It's not an excuse. It's not an excuse. It's not an excuse. Rather, it is the opposite, namely to report the measures we are taking to tackle that type of crime. Then we say there will be more. There is a review of the penalty scales for sexual offences, including the rape clause. There is also a review of the scale of penalties for robbery. That's where I want a warrant, just like we have for serious gun crime. I mentioned punishment for young people. We are working on a proposal to remove it for all crimes with a penalty value of over a year. There, all the crimes we are now talking about will be covered. If that penalty is removed, it means that in one stroke we double the penalties for an 18-year-old who, for example, commits a rape or aggravated assault. In one stroke we then double the penalty in that part. In addition – I forgot to say this in my last speech – we are working on the penalty scale in the team room, which is about abuse of justice. It is, then, when an offender attacks a plaintiff or a witness and threatens to prevent him from testifying or telling him what happened to him. There is an investigator– we will have a report next year – reviewing that scale of penalties. The reason is simple: when you attack a witness or a plaintiff, you attack not only that person but also the rule of law as such, and you undermine the ability of the rule of law to act. Some people ask why we should have stricter penalties. One answer, of course, is that those in prison do not commit any crimes. That's an answer. The second answer is that I believe in the correctional system. I know that relapses in crime are now decreasing after serving their sentence. I know there's a possibility. If we get to work with some of these individuals for a long time during a prison stay, it creates the conditions for them to be able to come out as law-abiding citizens. That is why we should keep them there for a long time.
i-d630173e4b73466c-321	Madam President, I would like Now Morgan Johansson once again chose only to recite what he and the government have either done when they have met with us or intended to do when they set up various investigations etcetera. But we can bring up some judgments that actually exist. They may in some way give perspective to the alleged punitive measures that Morgan Johansson raises. Samnytt reported last night about a case where a foreigner at knifepoint tried to rape a minor girl in a school toilet. He was sentenced to a month in prison. The 16-year-old who made himself known by urinating on his robbery victim and in other ways humiliated the same was sentenced to juvenile care, from which he subsequently chose to depart without major problems. Two people were convicted in May for robbing a 19-year-old for hours. They forced him to undress, filmed the abuse and were considered to have acted with violence. They were sentenced for a maximum of two years and two months. In that case, even the youth discount was not included. There was a person older than that who only got two years in prison for the humiliation robbery. It is quite clear, however many times Morgan Johansson chooses to say the opposite, that we do not have adequate legislation in place to really punish those who commit this type of serious crime. I find it shameful that Morgan Johansson does not dare to point this out, that he does not dare to admit it, that he does not dare to admit guilt on his own behalf and on behalf of the government because there is no adequate legislation in place. As Morgan Johansson mentions, you cannot commit crimes if you are in prison. It is clear that the crime I touched upon earlier had not occurred if the accused had been detained, as he would have done for the crime he had committed.
i-d630173e4b73466c-327	Madam President, I would like Now Tobias Andersson is unhappy that I am telling you about all the measures we have taken, all the punitive measures that we have done and everything that is to come. Tobias Andersson's argument is now that it does not matter because the courts still do not judge in the way Tobias Andersson wants them to do. The argument then is that it does not matter what we have done, because it has not had any effect. I would just like to remind you of what it actually looks like in reality precisely when it comes to sentences imposed. Last year, Swedish courts sentenced over 10,000 prison years, in total. That is an increase of almost 30% in two years. It is an effect of more people being sentenced, but also of those who are now being sentenced to longer prison sentences. It is a very tangible effect. If Tobias Andersson has any more thoughts about it, I think he can visit a prison or a jail. Then he will see that we now have full occupancy. We even have overcrowding in many places. There's 100 percent occupancy both in detention centres and in prisons. It is an effect of what we have done with the presumption of arrest for the serious crimes of arms, but also with the punitive measures for the serious, serious crimes of violence in particular. I say that the punitive measures that we have carried out have actually had an effect in reality too, so to speak. I think this is important. As I was at the end of my last speech, we have a trend in which relapses in crimes after imprisonment are actually decreasing. Twenty years ago, almost 40 per cent of them returned to crime within three years of being released from prison. Today, that figure is down to 30%. This is in favour, I believe, of the fact that we actually have a pretty good operation in the prison system and that we have an opportunity to ensure that those who commit crimes can leave the criminal path if only the right efforts are made. That is why we want to ensure that this activity can continue to develop in the penal services.
i-d630173e4b73466c-331	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me whether I intend to take measures to ensure that expulsions are for life and whether I intend to take measures to prevent future crimes of the kind he describes in his question. For the government, it is important that there are conditions for expelling a foreign citizen who is guilty of serious crime. The government has therefore commissioned a special investigator to carry out a broad review of the legislation on expulsions due to crime and to propose a more stringent regulation that provides for the possibility of expelling foreigners who commit crimes in more cases than today. According to the established practice, the length of a return ban on expulsion is generally determined on the basis of criminal penalties, usually five, ten or fifteen years from the date of the judgment. As a rule, if the penalty value of crime exceeds eight years in prison, the return ban is not limited in time. The current application means that even relatively serious crime can lead to a relatively short return ban. The investigator should therefore consider whether the provision on a return ban should be amended in order to allow for a more nuanced assessment. In addition, the investigator should consider how the penalty threshold for expulsion due to criminal offences should be changed. The investigator will also review whether there are reasons to change the requirement for exceptional reasons for expelling a foreigner who has resided in Sweden for a longer period of time and how the foreigner's connection to Swedish society should be taken into account. The mission also includes reviewing how the rules can be tightened up in the case of honour-related crime and hate crime and proposing measures which, while maintaining legal certainty, can improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of expulsion decisions due to criminal offences. The investigator shall present his or her proposals by 30 June 2021. As regards the question of measures to prevent future crimes, I would like to remind you that the minimum penalties have been tightened up for, among other things, aggravated rape, aggravated robbery, aggravated assault, particularly aggravated assault, gross illegal coercion and grossly illegal threats, that the government has reformed sexual crime legislation and that Sweden now has the most stringent legislation we have ever had in this area. The Government has also commissioned a special investigator to review, among other things, the scale of penalties for sexual offences and make suggestions for any changes that may be needed to adequately reflect the seriousness of the crimes. In addition, proposals are being prepared for the abolition of penalties for 18 to 20-year-olds for crimes with a minimum sentence of one year's imprisonment, i.e. crimes such as rape, robbery and aggravated assault. If the proposal is implemented, it will be sentenced to longer and more prison sentences for such crime.
i-d630173e4b73466c-336	Madam President, I would like When foreign citizens are convicted of crimes in Sweden, only a small minority are actually sentenced to expulsion. For example, four out of five foreign citizens convicted of rape or aggravated rape may remain in Sweden after serving a sentence. As if this were not bad enough, it is not always that the foreigners who are supposedly actually sentenced to expulsion are also sentenced to life expulsion. Instead, they are often welcomed back to Sweden after a certain number of years have passed. This certainly seems quite strange. Why would Sweden want back foreigners who committed serious crimes during their stay in Sweden? The only thing the government has done to overcome this long-known problem is that in April they set up an investigation into stricter rules for expulsion due to crime, which Morgan Johansson is now bragging about. A telling example of this problem is the three multi-criminal immigrants who raped and filmed a dead 14-year-old girl earlier this year. Two Syrians and one Afghan took turns assaulting the unconscious girl while filming the abuse and thus sharing other events. In the aftermath of the abuse, the perpetrators threatened to send their family on her. The penalties now imposed by the District Court are alarmingly low, which is tragic in the light of the fact that Morgan Johansson, in both this and our previous interpellation debate, beats his chest over his alleged punitive measures. The maximum prison sentence was two years and nine months. The Afghan had miraculously managed to obtain citizenship in only 18 months and could therefore not be expelled by current legislation. The two Syrians, on the other hand, were sentenced to deportation but are welcome back in 2030. Why Sweden would ever welcome back foreign rapists is beyond my understanding, but Morgan Johansson may be able to answer that, Madam President. Unfortunately, rape is only one in the multitude of rapes committed by foreigners against girls in Sweden, but it sets the context for the interpellation. In many cases, especially in the case of assault rapes, the perpetrators are people who would never have been welcomed to Sweden from the outset, who would certainly not have been granted citizenship and who would definitely not have been free to commit new crimes after they were already convicted – not infrequently repeatedly. Madam President, I would like I suspect Morgan Johansson will talk again about the government's investigation into expulsion. He'd be happy to. I was going to touch on this investigation in my next post. However, I would like to ask Morgan Johansson the following question: does the Minister find it reasonable that criminals should be welcomed back to Sweden? If Morgan Johansson answers no, he may justify why he has not dealt with it for six years as the minister responsible. If he answers yes, he may justify why he believes that convicted foreign rapists after a while should be allowed to move freely in Sweden.
i-d630173e4b73466c-347	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson thinks I'm bragging. But I'm just saying as we usually say in Skåne: We don't brag; we just say as it is. Here it is a question of just saying the truth, that is, these are the measures we are taking precisely to tackle this kind of problem. Tobias Andersson is breaking open doors. My view is that for those who commit serious crimes in Sweden and are not Swedish citizens, the general rule should be expulsion. For then our hospitality has been misused. That is my basic position on these issues. That is exactly why we set up the review that I am writing about in the interpellation response. This review has several different elements. Some are about the connection, that is, the question of when should you be able to refer to that you have such a strong connection to Sweden that you should not be expelled. There I mean that the rules are far too generous. We have seen a number of objectives which point to precisely that and which we think are offensive. It must be easier to lower the limit or threshold in those cases and thus tighten the regulatory framework on that particular issue, i.e. the link to which one can refer. The second is that more crimes should be eligible for expulsion. Then it's about the penalty value you're supposed to have. The third part deals with exactly what Tobias Andersson touches on in this interpellation, that is, the length of the expulsion. It is also included in the investigation proposal. In terms of life-time expulsion, practice is currently up to eight years in prison on the scale of sentences for life-time expulsion to be up to date. Then we will end up in very serious crime, in practice murder, extremely serious assault or particularly serious rape. I think eight years is far too high a requirement. My view is that that limit must be substantially reduced, and that is why, among other things, we commissioned the investigator to review the regulatory framework in that part. If this limit is substantially lowered, it means that more will be expelled for life. The investigator also has other issues to investigate, including the problem of honour crimes, i.e. to be able to extradit the perpetrator who has committed the honour crime. Then you must also take care of the victim so that the victim can remain in Sweden. There is also a need to consider this problem. Enforcement of expulsions must also be made more effective. Up to 90% of all the expulsions decided on can also be carried out, but unfortunately there are some countries that do not even accept their own citizens. Then we must work bilaterally with these countries to ensure that such cooperation is achieved. All countries must accept their own citizens if they have been convicted of crime. It is important to make sure that they do too. A report will come in June, that is the plan. We expect to be able to have in place new legislation in 2022, in which we tighten up this regulatory framework substantially.
i-d630173e4b73466c-358	Madam President, I would like Morgan Johansson says he's not bragging, he's just telling the truth. As it is, only one in five foreign citizens who commit rape and are convicted of it in Sweden is currently expelled. It is also the case that today they are often sentenced to a temporary expulsion. It does not matter, therefore, that Morgan Johansson insinuates that he may now think something other than what is prevailing in the legal situation in Sweden. Madam President, I would like I would like to touch on the investigation to which Morgan Johansson refers, the investigation Strengthened rules on expulsion due to crime. Firstly, it is of course a good thing that something is happening at all. I am also pleased that Morgan Johansson now meets us in some of his positions. Secondly, was it really necessary for Morgan Johansson to sit as Minister of Justice for almost six years in order to understand the need for tightening up in this area, even though he had previously been a member of the Committee on Justice for several years? Thirdly, the fact that the investigation will have over a year to final report at least leads me to believe that the government wishes to delay the issue. Fourthly, given that the final report will only take place next summer, I see it as excluded that the government will have any new legislation in place during this term of office. That would mean that, regardless of his rhetoric in this House, Morgan Johansson has failed to address the problem throughout two terms of office. That is remarkable, Madam President. Fifthly, as I now intend to do, the Committee's directives in the investigation can be criticised. Instead of specifically asking the investigator for concrete proposals on how to address the problems, how to put in place legislation and, by extension, a precedent that ensures that criminal aliens are expelled and expelled for life, only the investigator is asked to take a stand on a number of things. If I know the Social Democrats correctly, in practice this means that the investigator will be able to take a stand on the fact that we cannot expel more people. Then Morgan Johansson and his colleagues say that the question has been investigated, and so you pat yourself on the shoulder and move on. In his written reply to this interpellation, Morgan Johansson says : The investigator should therefore consider whether the provision on a return ban should be amended in order to allow for a more nuanced assessment. ..................................................... It is true that when foreigners rape a minor girl and only receive a ten-year ban on return, it is an affront to both the victim and the public's perception of justice. But why should the investigator take a stand? I would have liked Morgan Johansson to have taken a clearer stand. Why would an investigator do that for him? Madam President, I would like I've taken a stand. I want criminal foreigners who, for example, have gang-raped a minor girl first to be expelled, second, to be expelled for life and never ever to come back to Sweden. It is not very difficult to make that kind of position. I hope Morgan Johansson can do it now.
i-d630173e4b73466c-371	Madam President, I would like First of all, this is not a new issue for us Social Democrats. We Social Democrats went to elections to make such a change. This is therefore in line with the policy we have pursued. As I said, my basic principle is that if you commit serious crimes in Sweden and are not Swedish citizens, the general rule of expulsion should apply. That is precisely why we have asked the investigator to review all these aspects of connection, which crimes are to be covered and what time an expulsion should cover in that case. Tobias Andersson here speculates on the timetable. I've just explained how we're thinking of this. The report will come in June next year. Then there is a referral period of three months. And then we'll work on the bill. My basic position in this plan is that we should be able to submit the bill to Parliament before the elections, so that we will also be able to do so during this parliamentary term. It also applies to all the points that we have on the 34-point programme against organised crime that they should be implemented during this parliamentary term. Then Tobias Andersson wonders why we appoint investigators and why you can't just decide things. But that is how legislation works. We have an obligation to prepare under the Constitution. This means that we cannot just sit in this Chamber and decide that we should do so. All the legislative proposals coming to this House must be prepared in the sense that they must be examined, it must have been a consultation and we must have looked at all possible effects and consequences of the legislation. Does Tobias Andersson know what else will happen? Well, it is that the courts will not be able to judge by careless legislation that is not prepared. Thus, any parliamentary decisions on things that have not been investigated will be just one blow in the air. You simply have to relate to doing so. But we have not delayed this issue in any way. We have said from the outset that this is an issue that we want to resolve during this parliamentary term. It's also the plan that we should do it. But no one should be left in doubt as to what direction we are taking, namely to tighten up this regulatory framework substantially.
i-d630173e4b73466c-376	Madam President, I would like It is of course positive that Morgan Johansson and the government now believe that legislative proposals should be properly prepared and so on, given that they have not previously cared very much about criticism from the Law Council, not least when they have come with refugee amnesty for high school Afghans. But it is a good thing that we have changed and now think that this is important; I agree with that. Then I can only say that Morgan Johansson's alleged basic position on this issue is not in line with the reality in Sweden where he has been responsible for this policy for six years. It's great that you can say in the Speaker's Chair that your basic attitude is X while you haven't changed Y in reality to become X. Madam President, I would like I would like to hear Morgan Johansson promise that he will work to make expulsion possible in more cases and that there will always be life-long expulsion, no matter what the investigation lands in. Until now, he has said that it is his basic attitude, and no one should doubt that. But I would like to hear him promise me and those who listen that he – even if the investigation chooses to land in something else, perhaps because the committee directives for the investigation were not clear enough – will nevertheless work for his basic attitude. This would not be controversial for the Social Democratic Government, given that the proposals of the investigations were not always followed in the past, not always listened to the recommendations of the Legislative Council, etc. Controversially, then, it would not be. But such a promise is in demand. It would consolidate his supposed basic attitude, and that would be good in practice.
i-d630173e4b73466c-380	Madam President, I would like We went, again, to elections on this. It is an electoral promise that we are now actually going to implement. This means that more will be able to be sentenced to expulsion, that fewer will be able to refer to connection to Sweden, that more crimes will be able to render in expulsion, that the expulsions will be substantially extended and that more will thus be sentenced to life expulsion. In addition, enforcement itself will be made more effective. We also bring in the problem of honour crimes. It is therefore not a difficult promise for me to exhibit, on the contrary. We went to elections on that, and we will also make sure to deliver that.
i-d630173e4b73466c-383	First of all, let me say that we have not implemented a refugee amnesty. There is no such decision. We have implemented legislation that enables a group to complete its studies and then establish itself in the labour market. But there was absolutely no amnesty. No such decision has been made. When we are going to go forward with a proposal to the Riksdag, the Law Council sometimes rejects it and thinks it is wrong. Then we have to think about how the Law Council has argued. Is it good or bad, and are we still going to go ahead with it? There are some such suggestions. One was when we tightened the penalties for the serious gun crimes. This proposal was rejected by the Law Council, but I went forward there anyway. Another was the law of consent and sexual crimes. It rejected the Law Council too, but there we went anyway. A third concerned the ID controls, which allowed us to steer up and control the refugee crisis in 2015 again. At that time the Law Council also opposed, but we went forward anyway and it was decided in the House. I am not ashamed of these decisions for a moment. It has proved to be workable measures and, in some cases, quite necessary. But this balance must always be there. But with this not saying that you can sit here and just decide on things that are not ready at all. It doesn't work according to the Constitution.
i-d630173e4b73466c-387	Madam President, I would like Tony Haddou has asked me why, according to what he says, I am blocking and opposing important measures to stop tax evasion, not working to tighten up the criteria for the EU's list of tax havens and thus to work towards the Union applying its criteria to its own Member States, if I intend to act in any way towards public transparency and tax transparency, and if I think that Sweden should introduce a tax havens investigation in order to come up with proposals to stop the export of money to tax havens. First of all, I would like to say that the work against tax evasion and tax evasion is a fundamental and priority issue for the government and that I share the interpellier's commitment to this issue. Since the cat flight is global, international solutions are a prerequisite for stopping it. Great progress has been made at international level in recent years, and more can be done. On the first and second issues, I assume that Tony Haddou means the EU proposal on public country-by-country tax reporting that Sweden voted against at the Competitiveness Council meeting at the end of last year. The government believes that the EU proposal on public country-by-country tax reporting is on the wrong legal basis, because we believe it is a tax proposal. It is important that the principle that tax matters are decided in accordance with the special legislative procedure applicable to tax matters and dealt with in the Council configuration responsible for tax matters is maintained. If we make exceptions on one point, it can be used to transfer power over tax policy on several points. This is in line with the position endorsed by the EU Board. In this context, it should be borne in mind that there is already an obligation for large multinational groups to submit country-by-country tax reports which are subsequently exchanged between tax authorities in countries both within and outside the EU. The tax authorities are therefore already in possession of reports of this kind, and it is important that this exchange continues. As regards the question of tightening up the criteria for the EU's list of tax havens, the development and strengthening of the criteria are constantly being pursued. It is an important work that Sweden actively participates in. On the issue of promoting the application of the Union's criteria to its own Member States, it cannot be overemphasised that the Member States are obliged to live up to two of the three criteria: tax transparency and implementing measures to combat BEPS. In addition, all Member States have undertaken not to engage in harmful tax competition by complying with the criteria and principles set out in the Code of Conduct on Business Taxation. Sweden is working within the framework of the Code of Conduct Group to impose the same requirements on Member States as we impose on third-country jurisdictions. Finally, the question is whether I believe that Sweden should introduce a tax haven inquiry in order to come up with proposals to stop the export of money to tax havens. Last October, I put a bill on Parliament's table with sharp countermeasures against transactions with non-cooperative jurisdictions.
i-d630173e4b73466c-392	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance. We have seen in recent years how new tax evasion scandals relieve each other, how the tax evasion of the rich is revealed and how financial corporations withhold billions from taxation. It's about an economic elite that blows ordinary taxpayers out of billions every year, all over the world. The tax evasion undermines our welfare and democracy, while tax evasion increases inequality because ordinary people with significantly lower incomes continue to pay taxes. The shopkeeper, the medical staff and the ordinary worker are paying their fair share of the tax – and so we have the rich elite who don't do it, but move money and profits to tax havens and believe they're above society. Therein lies the conflict. In its report on tax evasion released last month, Oxfam has calculated that Sweden loses at least 23 billion annually in tax evasion. Then there is also a dark figure behind this. The Tax Justice Network comes up with roughly the same numbers when they presented new data last week. A calculation of welfare had the money that disappears from Sweden in tax evasion enough to 45 000 nurses. Among other things, it had solved Sweden's nursing shortage, and it had narrowed the economic gaps – but it would above all give Sweden a more equipped and robust welfare, as well as a legitimate tax system. Madam President, I would like I am, at least, pleased that the Minister for Finance states in his reply that he shares my commitment to this issue, but I must admit that it makes it a little more embarrassing, on the one hand, how the Minister of Finance has acted on these issues and, on the other hand, how the Minister of Finance ducks for my third and fourth questions. To make it clearer, does the Minister of Finance intend to act in any way towards public transparency as measures to stop tax evasion? The fact is, Minister of Finance, that you have voted down the proposal with countries such as Malta, Cyprus, Luxembourg and Ireland – perhaps not the nicest company when it comes to aggressive tax evasion. The argument raised by the Minister for Finance is what she calls a wrong legal basis, but it is, of course, a question of accounting – that multinational companies publicly disclose what profits they make and how much tax they pay in each country where they operate. On that basis, journalists, politicians and the general public can actually demand responsibility for them. After the Minister of Finance voted against this proposal, the Left Party initiated a committee initiative in the Riksdag to establish a strategy to move towards public access. That proposal was also voted down by the Social Democrats. Therefore, the argument about the wrong legal basis becomes strange. Thus, instead of transparency and transparency, large companies can shift profits from countries where they operate to tax havens without the public or the media being able to review it. Instead, there are new tax evasion leaks from whistleblowers, investigative journalists and so on. I have also just noted that the Minister for Finance mentioned that multinational groups are obliged to account. The only problem is that there is tax secrecy behind it, and then it remains a secret. Then let me remind the Minister of Finance that public access, transparency and such a method are not entirely new, but were transposed for the banks in 2013 under EU legislation. Does the Minister of Finance intend to act in any way to ensure that the accounts are public, so that we get transparency as measures to stop tax evasion?
i-d630173e4b73466c-400	Madam President, I would like The government has pushed hard, both internationally and in Sweden, to stop the possibility of various forms of tax evasion and tax evasion. It is an active work that we have been doing all the way since Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister in 2014. Let me mention a sample of the improvements that have been made! We have recently introduced a deduction ban as a countermeasure linked to the EU's blacklist. We have worked hard in the EU for and are now implementing an automatic exchange of information between tax authorities within the EU to reduce the opportunities for tax evasion and tax evasion. There will be stricter requirements for tax advisors in the EU; the provider of international arrangements will also have to report it to the tax authorities. We have a record of real principals. It will also be able to control who owns a company, which will be important in reducing tax evasion. We have the EU blacklist, and we have a mission to the Swedish Tax Agency on measures against countries that are on the blacklist. We have implemented new tax rules for the corporate sector, which reduces the opportunities for tax evasion via so-called interest rate spinners. We have implemented several rules to neutralize the effects of hybrid mismatches. We have made changes to the EU's parent and subsidiary directives to prevent tax evasion. So at European level we have been able to pursue many important issues and have heard them, and this has now become a reality. We have also worked towards this in Sweden. This is, among other things, a reverse charge to make VAT fraud more difficult; recently we extended it to telecommunications services, where we have received reports of fraud. We have updated the CFC white list, and we have increased resources to the Swedish Tax Agency. We have increased the possibilities for the Swedish Tax Agency to work law enforcement and counteract tax arrangements for the transfer of property to legal entities. We have tightened up the rules on own-initiative corrigendum and introduced requirements on human resources, as well as on electronic payments for deduction of roots and diamonds. These are some of the things that have been done over the last six and a half years to combat tax evasion and tax evasion. We have therefore pushed hard both internationally and in Sweden – and not infrequently in collaboration with the Left Party, so I would like to thank you for a good cooperation. We share this ambition. Just as Tony Haddou says, ordinary employees pay taxes as they should, and of course companies and people who have good opportunities to carry out international transactions will also pay their taxes just like ordinary people. With regard to country-by-country reporting, one can get the impression from Tony Haddou that all the problems will disappear if it is made public. Of course, that is not the case. The information that is important for the right taxation is already available to tax authorities through the country-by-country reporting requirement that has been introduced. It is extremely important and will reduce the opportunities for tax evasion in the future – or yes, from its introduction. The question of whether reporting should be public is another matter. The reason we voted as we did in the Council is that we are in a constant fight within the European Union to ensure that tax matters remain a national competence and therefore also to be decided by unanimity. It is important for us to have national competence, and that is the background to Sweden voting as it did at that Council meeting. Now my speaking time is up. In the next post, I can have more of a discussion about the various pros and cons of open country-by-country reporting – because there are also cons with it. I'll get back to that.
i-d630173e4b73466c-415	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance knows exactly how to choose to make an ax pick, which is about, above all, EU coercive things. Many of the proposals now put forward by the Minister for Finance were those that Sweden had to do because of EU legislation. If you tap into the Ministry of Finance's own initiatives against tax evasion, the sample is not as large. As far as public country-by-country reporting is concerned, as the Minister for Finance says, but the problem with the exchange of information today is that there is confidentiality behind it. Last year, the Social Democrats went to European elections on the promise to stop tax evasion. We have just heard the very high voice of the Minister for Finance on this issue, but unfortunately the difference between words and actions is very great. Today, the most extensive tax evasion is flying under the radar, without the possibility of external scrutiny. Companies can shift their profits from the countries in which they operate to tax havens without the public or the media being able to review it. Today it is very difficult to determine whether companies pay the right tax in relation to their business in a country or not, and the knowledge we have about specific tax schemes usually comes from leaks. That is why the big companies need to be forced into public accounting. Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance mentioned the EU's blacklist and makes the same demands on the Member States as we make on third countries, that is, non-EU countries. It was also mentioned in the opening speech. This is a positive thing, and I think it is good that the government is making demands. However, the Minister for Finance says he wants to work against tax evasion and strengthen the criteria in the EU's blacklist, while just last month she removed, for example, the Cayman Islands from the EU's blacklist. This is therefore one of the world's most harmful tax havens on corporate tax evasion, and it has a corporation tax rate of 0%. Last year, Switzerland and Mauritius were removed – Mauritius had just one of the world's largest tax parades – which I must say is quite strange. What is this like to develop and strengthen the criteria for combating tax evasion? It goes without saying that there are tax havens in the EU as well. It's here, net giants that Amazon is looking for. Then they can have their business in one country, move their profits to Luxembourg and pay no more than 1% tax. It is therefore a question of companies that have tax evasion as a business model, that circumvent tax rules and who loiter hard to get as low tax levels as possible. This is the same company that the government has sent out to them to establish themselves in Sweden. Madam President, I would like I have also asked whether the Minister for Finance thinks that Sweden should introduce a tax haven inquiry in order to come up with proposals to stop the export of money to tax havens. There, too, I did not receive an answer other than the presentation of a proposal by the Minister for Finance. That's a very strange answer, so I'll have to ask again – the bill has nothing to do with a tax haven investigation. Does the Minister of Finance think that Sweden should set up a tax haven inquiry? In that case, the aim would be to stop the export of money to tax havens and to develop own initiatives in this area in addition to those mentioned by the Minister for Finance, to which the EU is forcing the government, so that the loopholes in tax legislation can be closed. There is a need for a major review of these issues, but also for concrete initiatives, which Sweden can actually take.
i-d630173e4b73466c-424	Madam President, I would like Now this was more than legitimately confused. Tony Haddou has called me to Parliament to discuss Sweden's actions in the EU. When I then told you how we have been running different issues in Europe, I got the answer from Tony Haddou that there are only things that Europe is forcing us to do. Now we are talking about how Sweden has acted in the European Union, and all the points that I raised are, of course, things that we have agreed together in the European Union to do in order to stop tax evasion and tax evasion. These are issues where Sweden has actively pushed for it to become a reality. I have been at ministerial meetings after ministerial meetings down in Brussels, pushing for us together in the European Union to stop the opportunities for tax evasion and tax evasion. I have spent many hours of work on it, and I have done so with joy. This is important, not only because we need the money to finance welfare, but also for it to be fair competition with all companies that are doing the right thing. There has been a great deal of progress here. However, it is in the nature of the matter that we cannot stop international tax evasion and international tax evasion only with Swedish legislation, but it needs to be done through international cooperation. Here the EU is an important forum, but we also have the OECD. Sweden has worked very actively in the OECD to promote the possibility of tax evasion that may exist in the international tax system. There has also been considerable progress in recent years. It may be worth pointing out that many of the scandals and leaks that have now emerged and which really show unacceptable behaviour among both companies and countries have a few years on their back. Many of these scandals would not be possible with the new rules that have emerged in recent years. This is an area where steps have been taken but where more must be done. Then the question is: Is public country-by-country reporting such a question or not? There are both advantages and disadvantages. The information is already in the hands of those who are to take the decisions on taxation. The correct taxation based on existing laws and rules is already made clear that the tax authorities now have this information. In addition, there may of course be a value in that journalists and the public can review this. That is something that lies on the plus side in making this information public. What lies on the negative side is that there are several countries that are very hesitant to be involved in this cooperation at all. There is a clear risk that they would withdraw from cooperation if this information were made public. Then you lose the whole point. This reduces the possibilities for tax authorities to obtain this information, which is important for it to be correct taxation. However, it was not for this reason that we voted against the Council in Europe, but it was precisely because it was on the wrong legal basis. Something that the Riksdag has thought is very important and that I really support is that tax issues are a national competence. When we decide on tax issues in the EU, it must be done by unanimity.
i-d630173e4b73466c-431	Madam President, I would like In fact, the Minister of Finance has now voted against this. The doubts she raises are, of course, doubts expressed by countries such as Luxembourg, Malta and so on – countries that are tax havens –. It is no wonder either, because it is about the world's most harmful tax havens – it goes without saying that they are hesitant, just as business lobbyists stop almost all proposals on tax evasion and loiter very hard against the EU and the parliament. The Minister of Finance mentioned the issue of reporting obligations. It was withdrawn as soon as the business community came in and blamed that it was coronapandemia – then one could not report anymore. You listen more to business organisations than to the people; that is what is distressing here. When it comes to picking up the sample, a major problem is that the Minister for Finance lays down a minimum level when the EU proposals come. That's what it takes. This is where we think the Minister for Finance can do a lot more. It is also a clear and recurring feature that new leaks year after year show that tax evasion is more aggressive. It does not comply with the legislation. It is not enough to refer to the EU and say that tax evasion is bad. We know that tax evasion is international, but we also know that multinational companies are lobbied to stop tax evasion proposals. Here we have seen occasions when the Minister for Finance has listened more to the lobbyists of the business community. In Brussels, as the Minister for Finance mentioned, we know that business lobbyists often run the political agenda. In fact, in Sweden legislative proposals are withdrawn because the business community is angry. That's the problem. We have, of course, had proposals – even on tax evasion – on the table of the Riksdag, which has been withdrawn because the business community is angry. Listen more to the people than to the business community – otherwise tax evasion proposals that really make a difference will not be put forward.
i-d630173e4b73466c-437	Madam President, I would like I do not think that the business community sees me as a minister who is always in the lead of the business community, but there are quite a few issues in which I – not least in cooperation with the Left Party – have pushed through proposals with which the business community has been less satisfied. I also run things that they are less satisfied with. Then there are many issues where there is a lot of reason to listen to the business community. There is a lot of experience and competence in business, and it is important for us politicians to understand what activities are being carried out and what reality business lives in. So there is every reason to listen to business, but as politicians you make your own decisions. Sometimes, of course, there are also opposing economic interests, and there we have made some proposals that business has not appreciated. However, I do of course wish that the business community was even more active in the debate about reducing the opportunities for tax evasion, tax evasion and tax evasion, because it is also about protecting all the Swedish companies that are doing the right thing. I appreciate, as I said, that I have received this interpellation. I think it is an important issue that needs to be raised more. A great deal has happened in this area in recent years. Sweden has been driving much of the legislation that has now become a reality in Europe, and we have spent a lot of time pushing these issues forward. However, I certainly do not see that we can settle down on this – on the contrary, I would like to continue to work to further reduce the opportunities for companies to tax fraud. We need that money. In addition, ordinary people pay taxes; big capital should also do so.
i-d630173e4b73466c-441	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me if I intend to change the travel allowance so that fewer will be able to take advantage of it. The current tax credit has been criticised for favouring car workers compared to public transport and for the fact that it is the deduction that causes the greatest tax error. The Travel Deduction Committee has proposed abolishing the current travel allowance and replacing it with a distance-based and transport-neutral tax reduction for longer work travel. The Committee's report has been referred and we have received many valuable points of reference. In order to obtain a better basis for future work and more information on how people living in sparsely populated areas without access to public transport are affected by the proposal, the Government commissioned Traffic Analysis to conduct an in-depth analysis of the impact of the Committee's proposals. Traffic analysis has submitted its report which, together with the Committee's proposals, is now being analysed in the Government Office. In order to be able to take a position on the future of the regulatory framework, there are many aspects that need to be taken into account. However, I would like to stress right now that the government's view is that it should be possible to live and operate throughout the country, even where public transport alternatives are missing or limited.
i-d630173e4b73466c-445	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have put this interpellation to the Minister of Finance on the basis that eight years of alliance government and work line meant very large revenues to our common welfare. It also left people with more money in their wallet. Overall, all the job tax deductions that we Moderates have implemented, both in government positions and when we then get through various budgets, mean that people have several thousand extras left every month when the tax is paid. It has also increased labour supply and made us, as I said, have more money for general welfare. What concerns me about the government's and the cooperation parties' proposal to reduce the travel allowance is that it also dismantles the work line. It strikes people who live outside our cities, but it also very heavily dismantles the work line that for many years was built up and served Sweden well. The government has increased petrol tax, diesel tax and vehicle tax very much and in instalments. Now the government is also planning to significantly reduce the travel allowance, so much so that for many it is about a thousand or two in increased taxation each month. In this way the work line is rolled back. This makes it less profitable to work, less profitable to go from contribution to work, less profitable for those who work to work a few hours to. This, Madam President, is very serious and will eventually also damage the Swedish economy. I have read the Minister's reply earlier and also listened to the Minister's reply here in the speaker's chair, and the Minister's response sounds good, Madam President. She stresses at the end that the government's view is that it should be possible to live and operate throughout the country, even where public transport is missing or limited. What worries me, Madam President, and to which I would like the Minister to respond is: What does that mean? That could mean just nothing. Does this mean that the petrol tax should not continue to increase, that the diesel tax should not continue to increase and that when the reduction obligation is introduced it should be compensated for the increased costs? Does this mean that it is not intended to increase vehicle tax by the end of the year? Does this mean that it does not intend to put forward proposals that lead to hundreds of thousands of people being deprived of the possibility of a travel allowance and that hundreds of thousands of additional people are being reduced in their ability to make travel deductions? What do the words of the Minister of Finance, Madam President, mean that it should be possible to live, live and work throughout the country? Is it empty words or does it mean something? I would very much like the Minister for Finance to respond to that. Does this mean that no more proposals will be put forward that undermine the work line and make it more expensive to use the car to and from work? Is this what the Minister of Finance means when she says that it should be possible to live, live and work throughout the country? I would very much like to have an answer to that, Madam President.
i-d630173e4b73466c-453	Madam President, I would like The drastic deterioration of the travel allowance has been severely criticised, and rightly so. We are currently living under a coronapandemia where the car is a safe alternative from a disease-protection point of view. The deterioration of the travel allowance is expected to affect 200 000 people who can get an increased tax per year by 10 000 – 20 000 SEK, so there are substantial tax increases that again affect those who do not have an expanded metro traffic to choose from. So it is rural areas, sparsely populated areas, which also bear this cost. I meet entrepreneurs who already have problems with the skills supply, to find people to hire. We have people who need to move from grants to work. The incentive to do so is reduced when it becomes too expensive to get to work. If we are to implement such a severe deterioration of the travel allowance, we need to have a premium ceiling, and a premium ceiling is also what the Moderates are proposing. So we do not want to chase the car away before an alternative exists, and for these people there is no alternative. There is no subway in all of Sweden. How does the Minister feel about the comment that the government wants to do many things rather than do the right things? And can the Minister see that this is affecting rural areas, that it is further dismantling the work line and that it will be more difficult to get people to go from subsidies to work?
i-d630173e4b73466c-459	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by emphasising that there is therefore no government proposal here. It is an investigation proposal that the government has asked Traffic Analysis to analyse further. Now the government is looking at the investigation's proposals but of course also at the analysis that the responsible authority has done. In order to be able to live, operate and live in the whole country in the long term, it is important that we change our fleet of vehicles. There is nothing to indicate that petrol and diesel will be more expensive and more expensive as the years go by. In addition, we need to make the transition for purely climate reasons. It is therefore important that the cars that are now sold in Sweden are environmentally friendly, that more can go on electricity, that there are more charging hybrids and that the petrol and diesel cars that are sold drag as little as possible. And that is the idea of the design of the bonus – the Malus system. The cars sold today will be available for many years, and many of them will then end up in sparsely populated areas. After they may have been preferential cars for three years, they end up with private individuals, often in sparsely populated areas. Then it is important that the cars pull as little as possible, so that it will also be possible in the future to live and work in rural areas. In addition, the government has made many proposals to make life easier for people living in sparsely populated areas. We have maximum support, we have support for trade, we have spent more money on road maintenance and expanded the service offices, just to name a few things. The government has also taken important steps to strengthen the work line, including increased opportunities for education, abolished the custody allowance, which was introduced under the alliance government, and introduced training requirements for new arrivals. I know that the Moderates believe that the government's strengthening of the unemployment fund is a way of eroding the work line. However, I do not share the view of the Moderates that, for example, the bakers in Älvsbyn who are at risk of unemployment should receive a significantly reduced unemployment fund from 1 January or that young people who have worked for some year should receive a much lower basic amount in the unemployment fund. There is no policy that holds the country together, either between young and adult or between rural and urban areas – and let us remember that unemployment is higher in sparsely populated areas.
i-d630173e4b73466c-465	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that the Minister for Finance is, of course, right in saying that this is an investigation proposal. But for those who listen, it may be good to know that it is the government that has ordered this particular proposal. It is not that the government has nothing to do with it, but the government has said what it wants to be developed to achieve some goals. Now the answer has come, and then it is reasonable for us to have this debate publicly, because this will form the basis of the proposals that the government will put forward. As far as the transition is concerned, the debate in this House is sometimes strange. No one is against us making a change, but everyone is in favour. The question is rather how it is to be done and who is to pay for this change. Here I and the Minister for Finance and our two parties have very different views. After all, it is not the case that those who cannot afford to buy a new electric car will be helped by the Minister of Finance making petrol more expensive, the vehicle tax higher and in every way trying to reduce the margins. If people had advice, they'd buy an electric car from the start. It's not that people want to hurt or don't care about the environment and climate. The problem is they can't afford it. The Minister of Finance is trying to make it possible for the government to help people by making it much more expensive and making sure that they get less margins and less money to live on. But it's not helping people. Since Magdalena Andersson became Minister of Finance, the petrol tax has been increased by SEK 1 and SEK 82. The vehicle tax for a Volkswagen Tiguan diesel was when Magdalena Andersson became Minister of Finance SEK 2,500. After the turn of the year, it will be SEK 14 500. Then it is still a car with a moderate increase. Many car brands have far over 1,000 per cent increase in vehicle taxation. The investigation ordered by the Government is now presenting a proposal that reduces the possibility of travel expenses being deducted. Hundreds of thousands of people who today have a travel allowance will be absent, and many who have a travel allowance will lose both one and two thousand a month. There will be increased taxation for those who do not have an alternative to the car. All of this, of course, undermines the work line. This makes it less profitable to move from benefits to work and less profitable to remain in work. Madam President, I would like This will in future reduce opportunities for what the work line laid the foundation for: slightly lower taxation for hard-working people. Teachers, nurses and police officers are allowed to keep a few thousand more each month, but there are more of us going to work, which gives increased tax revenue and more money to carry out joint health care, joint school and so on. Traffic analysis notes that with the proposal the government has ordered, travel deductions will no longer be granted for 40 – 50 percent of journeys in rural and rural areas. No matter how much the Minister of Finance says it, this is not helping people who live outside our cities. On the contrary, this is to tax people on fire.
i-d630173e4b73466c-474	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance mentioned that preferential cars that are driven for perhaps three years and then sold secondhand can be an option for those living in rural areas. However, I have heard that Minister Per Bolund has proposed that the opportunities there should also deteriorate and that preferential cars should not be so favourable any longer. In the past, it has been a possible vehicle chain that a preferential car with the latest technology regarding both safety and the environment after a few years is sold at a price that ordinary people can afford. But now this will also be blocked, which makes it even harder for people in the countryside to get a better car to drive on our Swedish roads. All of this together, bonus– malus and deterioration of preferential rules and travel deductions, brings increased costs in rural areas and more older cars without the latest technology regarding the environment and safety on our roads. Madam President, I would like Can the Minister see that it will be more expensive for all those in rural areas who need a car and cannot yet afford an electric car? In this transition, we shall not further burden the people who need to come to work, want to be good taxpayers and help to create good welfare in our country.
i-d630173e4b73466c-478	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl says that the government has ordered this investigation and that is why it is on the table. But the Moderates have also ordered this investigation. After all, the Moderates were on the Glesbygd Committee, and one of the proposals there was that the travel allowance should be converted into a deduction based on distance rather than cost. The travel allowance was to be made travel law neutral, and that was the mission to the investigation. This was the Moderates with and suggested, and if it is to become a reality, it must be investigated. It would be good if the Moderates reminded themselves of what they themselves proposed in a committee and also urged the government to investigate. The point of preferential cars is that it should not be the same taxation whether you collect money as a salary or as a car. But it has turned out that, as the system has developed in recent years, it has become more profitable to pick out money as a car than as a salary. This means that there is a tax subsidy in having a preferential car. This gives a very poor distribution profile. Most car pickers have a high income, which means that the receptionist is subsidising the director's car. It's bad. Of course, the original idea that preferential cars should be fiscally neutral should apply. That is why we are doing this rescheduling so that ordinary people will not subsidise the managers' preferential cars. Edward Riedl says everyone's in favour of the green transition. But in their budget, the Moderates are making very large cuts to climate policy while investing a lot in releasing more. There are 3 billion cuts in direct environmental and climate policy.
i-d630173e4b73466c-482	Madam President, I would like If you try to make really long hopes, you can try to get things together. The rural inquiry that was carried out, and which, as I know, all parties in practice put up for it, was about everything from locating state jobs from the Stockholm region out into the country to facilitating and improving opportunities to live and live in the whole of Sweden and above all outside our major cities. What this government has done since then is that it has made investigative directives that have been filled with completely different things. It is a desire to reduce car driving, a desire to include environmental aspects as a reason for making significant reductions, Madam President, in the possibility of deducting hundreds of thousands of people who use the car to and from work. They do so not because they find it fun but because they have no other options. These are two very different things. It can be good for the listener to remember it. One study was about facilitating and improving opportunities for people outside the cities. This government has decided to turn on those who live outside the cities and their chances of getting some money left in their wallets are they go to and from work and go to work. Madam President, I would like I think the minister never answered my question. At least I thought I'd try to set it, because that's how this instrument is designed. Ministers come to the Riksdag and answer questions from the MPs. Madam President, I would like I would like to know what the Minister means by being able to live and live throughout the country. Does this continue to mean increased costs and taxes for people who work and live outside our cities? Is that what the Minister of Finance is saying? Or does she think there'll be lower costs for them outside our cities?
i-d630173e4b73466c-487	Madam President, I would like The Moderates of the Rural Committee supported the final report. The final report proposes a distance-based travel deduction. You want to save, if I remember correctly, 2 billion on the travel allowance. The Moderates were behind that. Perhaps in the next interpellation debate Edward Riedl would like to come here and lecture the moderate member of the Rural Committee because he is not here to support what the Moderates on that committee proposed. The question of what I meant by that it should be possible to live and live in the whole country I answered already in the first post I had. The point I was trying to make is that in order to secure the long-term opportunity in Sweden to live and live in the whole country, we have to change the way we travel. To continue as it is now is to lock people in a solution that is not economically sustainable. It will be expensive, but it is also not sustainable for the climate. That's why we need to reset the entire fleet of vehicles. That is why, among other things, we are now tightening up bonuses – malus that more of the new cars sold should be climate-smart and then end up in the second-hand market that many people on regular incomes are part of so that they can also have climate-smart cars for the next decade.
i-d630173e4b73466c-492	Madam President, I would like Eric Palmqvist has asked me how the work on producing a final proposal for a new travel allowance is progressing. Eric Palmqvist has also asked me what view the government has on the effects of significantly increased commuting costs for Sweden's employees. As I pointed out in my answer to a previous question about the travel allowance from Eric Palmqvist, the government's view is that it should be possible to live and live throughout the country, even where public transport is missing or is inadequate. The report of the Travel Deduction Committee has been referred, and many valuable comments have been received from the consultation bodies. To obtain more information on how people living in sparsely populated areas without access to public transport are affected by the proposal, the Government commissioned Traffic Analysis to conduct an in-depth analysis of the consequences of the Committee's proposals. Traffic analysis has submitted its report which, together with the Committee's proposals, is now being analysed in the Government Office. In order to be able to take a position on the future of the regulatory framework, there are many aspects that need to be taken into account. The proposal will then be presented.
i-d630173e4b73466c-495	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Minister for his reply. The question of whether or not to be in its current form is a matter of concern. Maybe it's not that strange. With the policy of the Government of the Government of the State and, it must be stressed, even previous governments have imposed a heavy financial burden on the country's vehicle owners. Vehicle owners who, among other things, and not only, need their vehicles to get to and from their jobs around the country have seen the cost of car ownership increase. Given this development, it was perhaps not a surprise either, not for me at all, that the proposal for a new travel allowance presented by the investigators in 2019 would be another financial blow to refined commuters who lack alternatives to the car when they are going to get to and from their workplaces. The proposal was met with massive criticism. If it was the criticism or rural minister Jennie Nilsson's statements last spring that the proposal did not correspond to what was the political order that made the government not proceed with the proposal, I leave it unsaid. However, I note that this was the case, and many feel a certain relief from the government's decision. I also note that the Government has not come forward with any proposal for a reduced travel allowance in its 2021 budget. That's good. It is my hope that the proposal ended up in the wastebasket or rather in the document destroyer and that the time spent since then has been used to produce a proposal that does not make hundreds of thousands of families losers. Madam President, I would like With the proposal presented then, and as many people are very concerned that it will be presented again with extremely marginal changes, it is estimated that 200 000 – 300 000 commuters would lose the right to deduct travel expenses. Other estimates show that a not at all unusual rural family with two adults who have 60 miles [100 km] of work and who lack public transport would lose up to $25,000 a year if the proposal had become a reality. I would therefore like to express a certain amount of gratitude both to all those who de facto brought about a change by expressing their criticism and to the Government for failing to proceed with the proposal. Having said that, Madam President, I feel that I am representing many people here today who are very concerned about what the Government's proposal, which has not yet been presented, will contain. I therefore intend to give the Government the opportunity to present here and now briefly what directives the Government gave for the further investigation, not least for Traffic Analysis and how the Government itself views the significance of the deduction for the country's workers who have no alternative to car work commuting.
i-d630173e4b73466c-503	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a large, elongated and to some extent very sparsely populated country. This makes the car a necessity for many people in sparsely populated areas to get to work. Having a working travel allowance is important in order to maintain the possibility of having a high level of employment in Sweden, which is a prerequisite for us to be able to finance welfare. That is exactly why the government, when we received the investigation proposal on our table, gave the commission to Trafikanalys to do a deeper analysis of just how this affects people living in sparsely populated areas. Now we have that basis, and we analyse it carefully. Of course, the possibility of work commuting in those parts of Sweden where there is no or bad public transport will be an important factor that we consider in the further preparation work.
i-d630173e4b73466c-505	Madam President, I would like I have pointed out earlier in this House that I am one of those who believe in signal politics, and I choose to do so even today. I think, or rather I am sure, that the signals sent out by their political positions are sometimes more important than the actual effects. Therefore, Madam President, I believe that a policy which, time and again, is aimed at hitting all the country's car owners in a country where large parts of the population need the car – not just to get to or from their place of work but to shop, to drive children to leisure activities, to greet relatives and friends or even to give birth to children in the nearest maternity ward, and to travel 10 to 200 km away – is a policy that is harmful to the country and is pushing the people forward in further urbanisation despite all the fair words that the whole country should live. This applies whether it is about bonuses – malus, reduced speeds on rural roads, increased fuel taxes or environmental rules that threaten the existence of smaller land stations. So what we are debating here today is the risk of a reduced travel allowance. Of course, we have not yet seen the final proposal for a new travel allowance, so we should not anticipate that debate. After all, I want to believe in the Government when, in her previous speech, she says that it should not be designed in such a way that it hits the economy of Swedish rural families as hard as the original proposal of the investigation would have done if it had been realised. Nevertheless, only the threat of a future reduced travel allowance is only one in a series of government signals that you who choose to live outside the big cities, you are simply to blame yourself. The fact that the Finance Minister and I do not share the same view of things is no surprise. In that respect, I believe that the Government can agree with me fully. However, I do not think it would have had to stay there, because some things are just a bit of common sense. And to be honest, in political everyday life, we see many reports hammered through without any reservations because there are no lines of conflict. The question, however, is why it does so on this issue. I am thinking – and now I am thinking freely and speculatively, Madam President – that in my own constituency of Norrbotten, which is one of the last heavy bastions of Social Democracy, it is surely not reduced speeds, increased fuel taxes and reduced travel deductions that make their local party friends rejoice. Nor is it likely in Västerbotten. Jämtland Härjedalen, Västernorrland, Dalarna and Värmland – so we can continue. The question is therefore: Do you sit in the government so deeply with your hand in the eco-partisan cookie jar that you are prepared to turn the people out in Sweden's countryside to take part in that dry and useless four-and-a-half-percent cookie whose content is a really bitter story for people with working taste buds?
i-d630173e4b73466c-513	Madam President, I would like As I said, this proposal is something that has come to the table of the government. We have an in-depth analysis and we will continue to analyse this. Then it is not obvious that a distance-based travel deduction by definition needs to be something that is bad for sparsely populated areas because there are often large distances there.
i-d630173e4b73466c-514	Madam President, I would like I'll try to tie this bag together and at the same time point out a few things. Sweden is a country with a relatively small population, at least in terms of its surface area. The country is characterised by a few metropolitan areas and the smaller the cities with a smaller central town and a lot of surrounding land – what we call rural areas. Much of the common prosperity we see today has been created, and is still doing so, by people and companies that do not live and exist in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. One can rightly say that Sweden's economy and position as an export nation largely depends on all the everyday heroes who step up in the morning to drive harvesters in the forest, manage the blast furnace in the steel mill, be a process operator at a paper mill or work in the stowage in an export port. Similarly, we stand and fall with all those who take care of our children and the elderly and all those who maintain welfare and ensure that Sweden can be the modern export nation that we strive for. I think that all the people who work early mornings, late evenings and weekends all year round deserve a decent travel allowance – a travel allowance that does not make hundreds of thousands of people who have chosen to live somewhere else in our beautiful country than in the metropolitan regions economic losers. It is my hope that the Government will share that view and feel the same humility that I feel about the great deeds these people are actually doing together for our country. Madam President, I would like It is also my hope that the Council of State here today in this House will seize this opportunity and promise all those who are anxiously waiting for what the government will present for proposals that this will not impose yet another financial burden on ordinary working people. Such a commitment, if anything, would be a Christmas present to the Swedish people worthy of a minister.
i-d630173e4b73466c-520	Madam President, I would like Eric Palmqvist said earlier that he believes in signal politics. I'm a little more for real politics. Let me just say a few things that the government has pushed through to make it easier for people living in sparsely populated areas. Among other things, we have introduced a special rural deduction, where you get a special tax reduction if you live in sparsely populated areas. In addition, we have expanded the government service through service offices. We have carried out efforts to relocate the activities of public authorities in order for more to be in sparsely populated areas. We are introducing a reduction obligation that can create many jobs in rural areas. If you look at the jobs now being created in the northern part of Sweden, you can see that many of them can be attributed to the green transition, which the Swedish Democrats in almost every parliamentary decision and every possible button push is against. They are against us turning into a climate-smarter society. Just take new investments with 400 billion and 3,000 green jobs in Norrbotten or Västerbotten, where Northvolt's battery factory now means a very big development! The future is green, and we must ensure that the whole country can be part of that transition.
i-d630173e4b73466c-524	Madam President, I would like Sofia Westergren has asked me if I intend to make any changes to the bonus – the Malus system or to evaluate the effects of the tax increase shortly, given how hard the new vehicle taxes hit people who depend on the car. She has also asked me whether I intend to take any action in view of the fact that the Malus system risks countering the switch to lower-emission cars. The Swedish Parliament has stated that Sweden will have no net greenhouse gas emissions in 2045 and that greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport, excluding flights, will decrease by at least 70 per cent by 2030 compared to 2010. To reach the target, the conversion to a fossil-independent vehicle fleet needs to be accelerated. BONUS – the Malus system is one of several important instruments for achieving this goal and aims to increase the proportion of environmentally friendly light vehicles in new car sales. Bonus – the malus system means that n yproduced vehicles with no or low CO2 emissions are rewarded with climate bonus at the time of purchase while vehicles with high CO2 emissions receive increased vehicle tax during the first three years of operation. In the budget proposal for 2021, the Government estimates that the bonus – the malus system needs to be strengthened by increasing the maximum climate bonus for pure electric cars from 60 000 to 70 000 SEK and raising the Malus supplement at the same time. Technology development in the automotive industry is now rapid, and Swedish companies and individuals show a strong willingness to follow developments. So far this year, almost 70 000 new climate bonus cars have been registered, which is almost twice as many as the corresponding period last year. More than one in four new passenger cars sold are now rechargeable. Rapid technological development and high climate targets for the transport sector require a policy that is both responsive and adaptable. B onus – the malus system, as well as other environmental management, will need to be continuously analysed and adjusted if necessary.
i-d630173e4b73466c-530	Madam President, I would like Bonus – malus was introduced in 2018 and is intended to promote climate-smart cars and tax penalties for vehicles that are worse for the environment. The system has shown weaknesses and is heavily criticised. For many groups, there are no electric or gas-powered alternatives for this type of vehicle. It can also be very expensive. The battery pack and gas equipment are heavy and take load capacity. Bonus – Malus affects the larger passenger cars and light trucks the hardest. They are the ones who have a total weight of up to 3.5 tonnes and are allowed to drive with a regular B driving licence. These vehicles may cost up to SEK 35 000 per year in vehicle tax for three years. In most cases it costs around 25 000 kroner or more. The penalty tax is entirely independent of whether the vehicle rolls only a few miles or 25 000 miles per year. I give four examples here where the range of climate bonus cars in the form of electric cars, charging hybrids or gas cars is severely limited. The examples are the craftsman's car, the car that will accommodate the family's perms and the motor home driver's and the horse owner's vehicle. If drivers raise the competence of their driving licences to C, they will not be subject to criminal taxation and will be able to replace their vehicles with heavier ones, with a total weight of more than 3 1⁄2 tonnes, and will no longer be subject to criminal taxation – something that is significantly worse for the environment. Driving around with heavy battery packs or gas equipment is not an option for this group, as their vehicles need to have maximum load capacity within their total weight of 3 1⁄2 tonnes. In addition, the range of rechargeable vehicles and gas vehicles is very limited for this type of car. Madam President, I would like In view of this, I ask Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson whether she sees that there are no vehicle alternatives for these four examples and whether the Minister, if she concludes that there are no alternatives, can see that it affects these groups disproportionately.
i-d630173e4b73466c-535	Madam President, I would like I will not interfere in the debate very much, but I would have put an interpellation to the Minister for Finance, who was answered earlier today by the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action. That is why, now that we are on the subject of bonus- malus, I am going to take this opportunity to put my question to the Minister for Finance. What has happened to bonuses – malus is that those who earn less and cannot afford to buy these expensive electric cars are involved in financing subsidies for those who earn a lot and can afford to buy the expensive electric cars. That is one effect: that money is transferred from those who do not have to those who have. The second effect is that those who live in the countryside and at home in Norrland, where I am from, buy the least electric cars. That's where the least of the electric car subsidies end up. On the other hand, they pay the penalty taxes. It is therefore a transfer not only from the one who earns a little to the one who earns a lot but also from the countryside and from Norrland to the big city. These are the redeployments that take place within the country. What is problematic, Madam President, is that a large part of this money also ends up in Norway. I would very much like to hear the view of the Minister for Finance. Is it reasonable that such a large part of this penal taxation in rural areas, in Norrland and on those who earn less ports in Norway? I know that the government has begun work to try to plug this slightly, but how much drainage in the form of climate aid to Norway is the Minister prepared to accept? It is hardworking people who commute to and from work and who cannot afford to buy expensive electric cars, who pay this climate aid to Norway. It would have been interesting to hear the Minister's views on this.
i-d630173e4b73466c-540	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl is now asking me questions which he has asked in an interpellation to Isabella Lövin and which she has answered earlier today. In fact, I do not know what the order of such a situation is in Parliament. I have not been there in my six and a half years as Minister of Finance. I think I'll wait to answer those very questions. I do not know how the order in Parliament or the Government Office is in favour of such a situation where one does not accept the minister who has answered the question. Sofia Westergren asks about bonus – the malus system and cars within certain categories. She says that you can get up to 45 000 SEK in higher tax with bonus – the malus system. Malusen is paid for three years, and then you go back to ordinary taxation. We have looked at the emission levels required to end up at SEK 45 000 in taxes and which cars are in such an emission range, and it can be good for listeners to know that it is thus about cars that cost up to SEK 1 million. It is not ordinary domestic cars that are involved, but it is millions of cars that can get this kind of tax. If you want to add 1 million and then choose to buy a car that emits a lot of carbon dioxide, you can get such a high tax, but if you want to add 1 million, there are a lot of more environmentally friendly alternatives to choose from. I have also been asked what applies to light trucks. If you go into the pages where it is listed which different cars there are, you get in the category light trucks 128 hits on transport cars that are eligible for a climate bonus. I'm guessing there's still more people who don't get hit by a malus. There should be alternatives for craftsmen. As far as the transport of horses is concerned, I understand that many horse carts can be driven by an ordinary passenger car that does not get any malus. That is the information I have received from the Government Office. I will say, however, that I am certainly not an expert on horse transport. If you have a minivan and need to rebuild it to have a wheelchair in the car, I understand that there are also minivans that do not suffer from malus. So you don't have to do it if you need a minivan. As for campers, there are fewer options. Motorhomes are also used in a different way from ordinary vehicles. Therefore, we have made a change in how to set off and on motorhomes so that you only have to pay vehicle tax during the periods that you use the motorhome. With this change, the malus will be significantly lower for the motorhomes.
i-d630173e4b73466c-547	I would like to assess this so that Mr Riedl has the right to ask the questions he is asking because they concern the issue under discussion. Then the Minister for Finance has the opportunity to respond on the basis of his conditions.
i-d630173e4b73466c-548	Madam President, I would like Now we are discussing which cars are affected by malus where there are a limited number of cars and you need to use the load capacity within the total weight 3 1⁄2 tons. It is therefore dependent on filling the cars with content and still being allowed to drive them with a regular driving licence, so-called "B" licence. Lars Beckman has asked Minister of Social Affairs Hallengren a question about changes in car support due to bonuses – malus. It is good that the President has now examined the question and said that we can ask different ministers similar questions. In Sweden there is support for people who need a car due to a functional variation. Car support can be provided for those who have a permanent disability and major difficulties in moving or travelling collectively. The aid is of a one-off nature when buying a car. Bonus – Malus will hit this group hard. When you have bought a car, it is the first three years that you are taxed at these high levels, perhaps about $5,000 a year for three years. That's almost $100,000. The question asked by Mr Beckman was what measures the Minister intended to take to ensure that people with car support are compensated for increased costs due to increased vehicle taxes. The answer the minister gave was that in most cases smaller cars are not only cheaper but also more fuel-efficient. For a family who feels they need to buy a vehicle affected by malus, it is not an option to buy an electric car, for example. The alternative is to get a smaller car. Now I would like to take this opportunity to ask Minister Andersson the same question and add that it concerns a family with two children sitting in each of their per-mobiles. Permobils, I've learned, are pretty heavy units. What will this family's coming year look like for them to live an active, independent and independent life? They feel they need a larger car with a load capacity that does not disappear in a battery pack. The family economy does not hold a fine of SEK 35 000 per year for three years. We heard earlier the Minister say, Madam President, that the bonus is increased by SEK 10 000. But we also see that the malus is already large and is expected to be further strengthened. So we have different models that should be burdened with perhaps up to 1 000 percent. I would also like to inform you, Madam President, that there are vehicles carrying horses. Then there are also smaller horse trucks that can be driven with ordinary B-licensed. This is all because you have to load a horse. It is not even possible to load two large horses in such a car, because then you risk getting overloaded. The total weight is simply over 3 1⁄2 tons.
i-d630173e4b73466c-558	Madam President, I would like I can tell the Minister of Finance that it happens quite often that I am not satisfied with the answer I get from the Minister, and it can be in the nature of the matter because the Moderates are no longer in government, but instead it is Social Democrats and environmentalists who do. For that reason, however, I did not think that my question, which the President agreed with, was far too far from the subject. We are talking about bonuses– malus, and I do not think it would be unreasonable for the Minister of Finance to have an idea of the penalty tax that has been imposed on hardworking people who cannot afford to buy expensive electric cars. I wonder if it is a problem in the eyes of the Minister for Finance that this money is actually not just being redistributed from those who earn a little for those who earn a lot and from those who live in Norrland and rural areas into those who live in the cities. To a very large extent, this money ends up in Norway. I think that a finance minister can have an idea of this. I can only say for information that I have been involved in many debates where ministers have not answered questions at all, so that is also a way of dealing with it. But I would have thought, and certainly also those who listen, that it would be interesting to hear what the Minister's opinion is about bonuses– malus. So it is the very high vehicle tax on ordinary cars that is redistributing from the one who earns little to the one who earns a lot. The benefits from those who live in Norrland, in the countryside and outside the cities to those who live in the cities and can already afford to buy these cars. But a very large part of this money also ends up in our neighbour Norway as some form of misplaced climate aid to a country that actually has better economic opportunities than we do. It would have been interesting, Madam President, if the Minister for Finance could tell us whether she has any idea that this is reasonable or not and how much of this she is prepared to accept.
i-d630173e4b73466c-563	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl says that bonus – malus goes from those who have little to those who have a lot. Well, the whole idea of bonus – the Malus system is that it should be cost-neutral for public finances. This means that the bonus is paid to those who receive it from those who pay a malus. On average, those who buy a malus car, such as one that has a really high malus, are people who have a high income. So it is people who can afford to buy expensive SUVs that give a bonus to those who can afford to buy expensive ones, because they are often electric cars. There is a big difference between the environmental car bonus that existed under the alliance government when ordinary people – nurses, warehouse workers and cashiers – were allowed to participate in financing an environmental car bonus for those who could afford to buy new environmental cars. Now it is those who buy gas-sucking SUVs who pay it instead. It is a significantly better distribution profile than when the Moderates ruled. As regards access to cars for families who need two per-mobiles, please come back. I am not aware of how much a per-mobile weighs, nor of which cars can handle such weight. To answer such a specific question, I need to ensure that the Government Office collects material. However, there is always the possibility to buy a used car, because then you do not suffer from malus.
i-d630173e4b73466c-567	Madam President, I would like This became a very good bridge over to my last post. I heard the Minister say that it is a better option for those who cannot afford to buy a used car. Bonus – the Malus system is heavily criticised, and where there are no alternatives, the investment in a new, environmentally friendly vehicle is missing. A vehicle that is bought new often has the latest technology regarding both safety and the environment. The result is that we do not get these new cars rolling on Swedish roads to the extent that we could have. The Swedish Parliament has decided that Sweden's domestic transport will reduce its emissions by 70 per cent. I see a problem with Sweden risking having an older vehicle fleet within these groups, because there are no alternatives. It will not help to achieve environmental objectives, because we have groups with limited opportunities to have bonus cars because battery packs and gas systems simply weigh too much. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Minister whether she shares the view that new investments may not be made if there are no vehicle alternatives for certain groups and that this will lead to an obsolete fleet of vehicles on our Swedish roads.
i-d630173e4b73466c-571	Madam President, I would like We have a very rapid development now in terms of vehicles and the possibilities to build vehicles that emit less and less. These are electric cars and charging hybrids as well as conventional vehicles. This is a development that is taking place through the free market. What we politicians can do to influence which cars are developing is to have clear governance through economic policy. That's what makes it look completely different now with the new cars coming out compared to what it looked like five, ten or fifteen years ago. It is thanks to a conscious political choice. Here in Sweden, our bonus – the Malus and our vehicle tax system has clear elements of changing. But we also see the policy in other countries that are heading in the same direction and that it has an effect. Here, a combination of private companies, innovation capacity and political governance works, and this means that we have good opportunities to achieve our goals. But it is based on this clear political governance. I can only say that if the Moderates' budget motion had gone through, we would not have gone at the forefront in terms of modernising Sweden and being far ahead in green development. On the contrary, we had backed into the future, and that is not good for the long-term economic development of any part of Sweden.
