i-90dc744eaa67130d-0	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me whether I intend to work to ensure that Swedish consumers get origin information about fuel at pump and not only on the fuel companies' websites. Let me first agree with Jens Holm that the origin marking of fuels can serve important purposes in shaping consumers' choices. More information about the origin of fossil and renewable fuels can help consumers to make more environmentally and climate-smart decisions when they think. This is why the government has proposed that fuel suppliers report on environmental information that contains two parts: climate impact and country of origin. As far as climate impact is concerned, the European Commission has had no objection to the government's proposal for regulation, but in the case of country of origin, the Commission has objected to the requirement that such information be provided at the pump. The government has for a long time been having a discussion with the Commission to find a solution. The Government notified the draft Constitution in July 2019 and answered further questions in August 2019. The Commission issued a detailed opinion in October of the same year. In the light of the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Commission questioned the origin of fuel at all, but especially at the pump. At the same time, in view of the government's determination of its response to the Commission, informal discussions took place with the Commission. In this context, the government referred, inter alia, to origin requirements in other areas, including food. The conclusion of that discussion was that pump marking was not possible in relation to existing case law. In other areas where information on origin is requested in the EU, such as beef, there are harmonised rules applicable to all Member States. In these cases, the EU has therefore taken a joint position to make the information available to citizens in a certain way. This is not the case for fuels. On the other hand, the government found some support to be able to make requirements for origin information on fuels on web pages with a new provision in the Renewables Directive that actually applies only to renewable fuels. We are obliged to fulfil the obligations arising from Union law. Taking further action for the government's basic proposal may mean that it will take time before we have any origin marking or any marking in place at all. In addition, there is a high risk that the Commission will proceed with an infringement case against Sweden. I do not see, therefore, that Sweden can currently introduce a national requirement for the origin marking of fuel at a pump. On the other hand, we will introduce a new and clear climate label at a pump, where consumers will be able to easily access information about what is fossil and renewable, and how these fuels affect the climate. Sweden takes precedence over other countries in this area. We are not going to remove the focus from this main issue. We should not allow a hopeless and lengthy conflict with the Commission on country of origin by pump to prevent us from getting the important information on climate impact in place. Consumers who want to know more will also be able to get more information about country of origin and other information on the web. Environmental information on fuels should be made available to consumers as a whole and not only in abbreviated form. It is because the government has fought with the Commission that information on the country of origin will be readily available on the web. It's no secret that the government would've wanted the original information to appear at the sales outlet. If origin labelling is brought up to date within the framework of, for example, the European Green Deal – the Green Deal – I think it is worth returning to the issue. It would be extremely positive that not only Swedish citizens but everyone in the EU is informed of the origin of fuel at pump in order to make more environmentally and climate-smart choices when they refuel their vehicles.
i-90dc744eaa67130d-12	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Environment and Climate Action for the answer to my interpellation. That was a fairly detailed answer, for which I would like to thank you very much, particularly in terms of communication with the European Union. It is difficult for us Members of Parliament to get full insight into this; it is something that the government manages. This is an important issue because we know that the transport sector accounts for one third of Sweden's total greenhouse gas emissions and that we urgently need to reduce these emissions. We also have a target of reducing these emissions by at least 70% by 2030. It is, of course, the fuels used in the transport sector that cause these emissions. It is not only about the impact of diesel and petrol on the climate, but also about the origin of these fuels, that is, how these fuels have been developed. It is about the local environmental impact, how workers and indigenous people have been treated and so on. There are plenty of examples of absolutely terrible circumstances. This applies, for example, to the way the indigenous people were treated during Shell's enlargement in the search for more and more oil in Nigeria, to fracturing in North America, and to how to deal with gas and oil in Siberia, Russia. We also know that many countries in the Middle East are dictatorships from which we import oil. Therefore, the origin is important in addition to the climate labelling of fuels. This is, of course, an issue that we have been discussing for quite some time. At least for four years, the government has had suggestions on how to produce such a label. So has the Swedish Energy Agency. The marking at the pump could look like the paper I'm now showing. Then you would see that petrol – in this case – has a very high climate impact. You could then see the origin, i.e. where the petrol comes from. This could be compared to electricity, which one sees has no climate impact at all. One can see, as on paper I now hold up, that this electricity comes from the Nordic countries and that it comes from renewable energy production. This could be a very important factor in further removing fossil fuels from Sweden and causing us to draw attention to the origin and climate impact of what we think in our vehicles. Now the Government has announced the introduction of a climate label for fuel, but it will enter into force on 1 October 2021. I would like to remind you that this is the third time, I would like to recall, that the government is delaying the introduction of the label, and I do not think that is quite okay. As for how the label should be made, I think it is very important that it is present at the pump. The Minister for the Environment and Climate Action then says that in communication with the European Commission, they have said that such a label cannot be made at a pump. However, I have looked at the opinion that the government has received from the European Commission, and there it is a clear criticism of origin labelling. But I can't see them saying it absolutely can't be done at the pump. I would therefore like to ask: where does the EU say that labelling must not be made at the pump?
i-90dc744eaa67130d-21	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for this important debate! I certainly fully share Jens Holm's view on this issue. That is precisely why the Government has put forward the proposal that there should be origin labelling and climate labelling and that it should be readily available at a pump. The climate crisis is already here. As Jens Holm points out, because of the dialogue we have had with the Commission on the objections they have had to postpone the introduction of the label. I think it is important that we have a climate label in place, which was the main objective of the whole proposal. On the basis of the fuel producers' replies, it is estimated to be in place by October next year at the earliest. Climate labelling is an absolutely first step. Then there is the information on origin. It will be easily accessible by a reference at the pump to where to find it. Today, almost all citizens have a smartphone and will quickly get into a website where you can access the information. The government had a discussion with the Commission on the importance of the renewables directive's requirement that geographical origin information on renewable fuels should also apply to fossil fuels, and we got this through. However, the Commission then refers to a case-law that does not allow a source information to be provided if there is no relevance in terms of the environmental impact of the product. There is, of course, nothing to prevent fuel producers from voluntarily providing this information. That is why I think this debate is so important, and that is why I want to continue to make this proposal so that we can get this information on websites. Then we also want to get away from the use of fossil fuels. The government's priority and goal is for us to become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. We have set up an investigation to set an end date for the sale of fossil-powered cars and for the sale of fossil fuels at all. We're in a break time. We have a climate crisis, and we also have a Corona crisis. There's a lot going on right now and changing. One thing that is being discussed, of course, is the dependence on global value chains, and the dependence on oil is, of course, a huge factor of uncertainty for many countries. When I was a child and young, most villas had villa oil in their heating systems, and I am sure that no one today lacks the villa oil. I believe that there will be exactly the same development as regards the dependence on fossil fuels in our cars. You'll feel a great relief the day you don't have to. With the climate label, we provide a first opportunity for greater awareness among those who will refuel which fuels have a lower climate and environmental impact than others. In this way we can also benefit, for example, Swedish biogas, which has a very low climate impact.
i-90dc744eaa67130d-29	Madam President, I would like I would like to start with the question of how labelling should be made. Should it be at the pump where the consumer is at the time of refuelling so that it can be seen clearly and cannot be avoided? It is the same as when you buy meat in the store, where you see if it comes from Sweden or if it is imported from Brazil. Or should the label appear on a website that you must actively search for? I'm pretty sure that if this information is located on a website, nine out of ten people will not find it, but it will be the most interested who will seek it. In addition, the information should be on the fuel company's website, as I understand it, and it is not entirely certain that the information will be very easy to find there either. I would like to ask the Minister whether she does not think that it is much clearer, simpler and better consumer information if you can find the label at the pump, that is, at the time of purchase. I think the Minister thinks so, because it has also been the Swedish line. But then the Minister says that this is what the European Commission has said no to. I have read the detailed opinion from the European Commission in autumn 2019. Of course, they say that origin marking can be discriminatory against other countries, that it is contrary to Article 34 on free trade and so on. However, I do not see them clearly saying that the origin marking must not be at the pump, but their criticism is, of course, against the origin marking as such. I would like the Minister to be clear here and to tell you how the European Commission has said that Sweden must not have origin marking at a pump but must only have information on a website, because I do not actually find that information, which I think is important for this debate. I would like the Swedish Government to insist on Brussels to allow us to make the label at the pump, because that is the appropriate consumer information to provide. I would also like to ask the Minister why, for the third time, you choose to postpone the introduction of the label. First, it was intended to be introduced on 1 January 2019. Then it was postponed until 1 January 2020 and then 1 May this year, and now you are saying that the label will be introduced on 1 October next year. The Minister says that this is about the time for the fuel companies to adapt, and I have also read a press release from the Minister where she says about the same thing. But the fuel companies have known for four years that this is happening. And it is no secret that the fuel companies do not want this detailed labelling of fuel, so there is reason to believe that the fuel companies want to delay its introduction as long as possible. My question to the Minister is: why have you listened much more to the fuel companies than to the environmental movement and the consumer movement, which want nothing more than to have a very clear consumer label on our fuels? Why cannot we introduce labelling, as planned, on 1 May this year or at least as soon as possible? Why wait more than a year?
i-9tY4CgEqzVRYTghA4fYbxS	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for further questions! I think, just like Jens Holm, that the best thing would be a clear information at the pump. However, during a long and intensive dialogue with the Commission, it has unfortunately emerged that the Commission considers it to be contrary to the Treaty and not compatible with the EU's internal market. Here we have found an entry point dealing with geographical origin labelling of biofuels, as indicated in the Renewables Directive. Sweden has successfully argued that it must also apply to fossil-based fuels. We have managed to get to the point where the Commission has accepted that the information should be available online and that there should be clear references to it by pump. I think this is acceptable so that we can finally launch this important information reform. The overall reform and the work we are doing is about eliminating fossil fuels at all. Here we work to screw in the reduction obligation so that we get more and more biofuels into petrol and diesel. We work with support for biogas, which we have just made in our budget. There will be additional support for biogas, which is a Swedish, locally produced and highly climate-smart raw material and a biofuel. We are also working on an investigation to set an end date for the sale of fossil fuels at all. Everything strives in that direction. Then, of course, it is extremely disturbing to look at oil production and the environmental impact it has around the world in various geographical areas. We all remember Deepwater Horizon, where five million barrels of oil were pumped over three months in the Gulf of Mexico. It was oil that was supposed to be originating from the United States. Then there are major disasters that have happened in Niger Delta in Nigeria. And we all know how sensitive the environment is in the Arctic, where oil that is likely to be originating from Norway is pumped up. I really find it hard to see that there would be any oil that we see as substantially much safer and better. It is possible that this is the case, but that is the discussion that the Commission has had. With regard to human rights and violations of them, the EU can make conditions in its trade agreements, and there Sweden is pushing for something essential. As far as the question of why we have listened more to the fuel companies than to the environmental movement is concerned, we have not listened to our authority. The information that should be available at the pump is not entirely clear, but the proposal from the Energy Agency that I am now holding is very similar to what Jens Holm showed. It's about showing the climate impact per unit of energy. There is also a clear URL that you can access with your smartphone if you want to see the country of origin. There is also the share of renewables. It is precisely the design of the technical parts and getting the information on the pumps that is expected to take time.
i-90dc744eaa67130d-41	Madam President, I would like I asked a question that I think is relevant in this context, but I did not get a very clear answer. In what way or when and how has the EU told Sweden that the information should not be at a pump but on a website? As I said, I have read the correspondence, at least the correspondence that can be found, between the Swedish Government and the European Commission. There I cannot see that they are focusing on the fact that the origin marking at the pump must not exist, but rather on the general reasoning on origin marking. I could be wrong here. Maybe I don't have all the information. That is why I ask the question, because I think it is important. I think it would have been good if Sweden had fought for the information to be available to the consumer at the time of purchase, because it is then that you reach all consumers. Then I agree with the Minister that the main focus is to eliminate fossil fuels altogether. There are marginal differences in how extraction is carried out. It's terrible in every way, so it's gone. I believe that labelling can speed up the transition. I also believe that if Sweden makes such a label it can then spread around the world, for many countries are looking at us in this context. In view of this, I would like to say that I think we can get the label faster than just over a year. The government could introduce climate labelling now, as soon as possible, and then it will take the origin marking a little later, once the issue with the Commission has been cleared up. I would like the government to move forward a little faster than has been planned.
i-90dc744eaa67130d-45	Madam President, I would like Of course, we would like to see such a label, and it would be good if it could be seen jointly at European level. On the basis of the Commission's objections, this is the way forward. As regards what information has been passed on to the government and how this has happened, I understand Jens Holm's question, but there is a dialogue at the level of officials. This has been done with DG Clima, DG Trade and DG Energy. There are many directorates involved in this. It is a legal and technologically complex issue, and then the government has finally landed in that we have come as far as we could without the risk of going to the European Court of Justice with an infringement case. Here we have not assessed that it is important enough to have the information printed just on the pump when we can now get the reference to the information on the web. I agree with Jens Holm that all transparency is good and that it would be very good if you could go ahead and show this kind of information all over the world. Then such a question could be pursued within the framework of the Green Deal. It may well be that we can gain more understanding and a positive attitude to this in the light of the Corona crisis. Once again, our dependence on fossil fuels, viewed from the EU, is not sustainable. I believe that many people realise this and that we need to promote domestic production of fuels and renewable energy in order for us to be safer in the next crisis.
i-90dc744eaa67130d-49	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me what I intend to do to ease the situation for our country's tenants during the current pandemic and whether the government intends to take seriously the Tenant Association's proposals for relief during the current pandemic and recommend that the Swedish Real Estate Association follow the proposals for relief for the tenants that the Tenants' Association has put forward. I would like to begin by emphasising that we are in an extreme situation with a virus outbreak that has serious consequences for society as a whole. The world economy and the Swedish economy are expected to enter a recession with falling bnp. The high level of notice reported shows a fall in employment. Many have become, or risk becoming, unemployed. The government, together with the cooperation parties, is working hard to limit the effects of the coronapandemine and mitigate the consequences for citizens and businesses. For example, the government has presented a crisis package for jobs and transition, which means a temporary strengthening of unemployment insurance, a more active labour market policy, more places and more distance learning in universities and higher education institutions, more opportunities for vocational training and the abolition of credits. The Government has also presented measures that make it easier for companies to borrow and that reduce costs for companies, support for certain industries and a substantial addition of SEK 22 billion to regions and municipalities. These are exceptional measures to ensure that people do not lose their jobs or contribute in various ways to maintaining the income and ability to pay of those who do. Finally, I would like to stress that the Government's ambition is, of course, to prevent people from falling victim to homelessness because of the ongoing coronapndemine. We are closely following developments in the housing market and we are in a situation where we do not exclude any measures. We have a dialogue with the Tenant Association, Property Owners and Sweden's Public Benefits to get a picture of what efforts may be needed, and I am pleased that landlords are considering, or have already implemented, measures to prevent tenants from being evicted.
i-90dc744eaa67130d-54	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the answer and the explanation of what the government is doing for the housing market but also for the labour market, and especially for investments in companies. As the Minister states in his reply, many are made known and laid off under the coronapndemine. Many of them live in rental dwellings. Many of the wage earners, regardless of their form of employment, are now without income. A large part of them live on the margins and have problems paying their rent. Most people who work in the hotel, restaurant and tourism sectors, but also in the cultural sector, are alerted. The Tenants' Association already warns of mass homelessness. Unfortunately, we have not yet seen any concrete proposal from the government as to what it is doing for tenants. On the other hand, the government has taken a great deal of interest in the banks facilitating the right-of-occupancy process. That's right and good. But it is also expected by the government that it makes concrete efforts and not just for a dialogue with the Tenants' Association. Like the Minister for Housing, I've been informed that the Tenants' Association is getting a lot of calls. Many people are very concerned about what their situation will look like. In view of this, I have asked some questions to which I believe I have not been given an answer. Will the government, for example, set up a government fund to facilitate and support tenants who will suffer from this international crisis, the covid-19 pandemic? And will the government make other reliefs similar to those made for the rightholders, i.e. that the amortisation requirements have been released for some time to come? That's good. I do not mean that these bets are bad; I absolutely should not say that. But we have 3 million people living in rental housing, and many of them are insecure jobs. Many are also women and single people, and many live in already vulnerable areas. In order for us to prevent evictions and dismissals of tenants, the government must invest already now and not wait and see what will happen. This was not done when it came to the banks. It strengthened the banks and strengthened the companies but not the commons and not the tenants.
i-90dc744eaa67130d-58	Madam President, I would like I thank Amineh Kakabaveh for raising this question. This is an incredibly important issue. It is clear to all of us that this is a health crisis, where covid-19 has hit our country hard and the rest of the world hard. At the same time, it has led to a difficult economic situation, and many companies are experiencing major difficulties. If the government had not acted, there would have been a great risk that very many companies would have gone bankrupt and had to warn or dismiss many people who would then have lost their financial security. We have had to act uniquely quickly and with uniquely large measures in a very short time. We have already presented reforms in the order of SEK 110 billion for just a few weeks to ensure that we can really counteract these effects and ensure that we can take responsibility for keeping the Corona epidemic down and for taking care of everyone who gets sick. But not least, we have done this in order to ensure that businesses can be relieved and that companies can cope with this situation and, for example, through short-term lay-offs, short-term work, to enable people to remain in work but to fall in working time. The state goes in there and pays a large part of the cost, so that people can actually get a livelihood and manage to pay, for example, their rent. These have been absolutely decisive measures. If we had not taken these measures, we would have had a much more difficult situation now. Many more people would have sat with a great deal of concern about how they could manage to buy food for their children, be able to pay the rent and keep their home. As it has been such a hugely fast process, we must take things step by step. We have to start with the most urgent, and then move forward towards what can wait at least for a while. We have seen that the rental market is something we are also concerned about. Of course, it is crucial that the economic and health crisis does not also lead to a homelessness crisis in the next stage, as many people lose the security they have in terms of their own housing. It is essential to build a good life. The measures we have taken have meant that very many people will now be able to actually keep their homes and pay their bills. However, we are not satisfied with this, but we will continue to work towards meeting the effects that we are now seeing from the Corona crisis. In fact, we have already acted in advance to start facilitating precisely the risk of eviction. For example, we commissioned the county administrative boards in the regulation letter for this year to support the municipalities in their work to counteract evictions of families with children. It is an example of how the state, together with the municipalities, can be helped to take a great responsibility for people not to end up in the hugely difficult situation to get rid of their housing. It is particularly important at the moment when there is also a health risk. If you cannot manage your hygiene and ensure that you can keep a social distance, there is a risk that you will also get sick. That is why it is particularly important. We have also had a dialogue with the parties to the rental market. We have made contact with the Tenants' Association, and have been in a distance meeting to avoid spreading infection, to get a common picture of the situation and to show together how we can help each other in our different roles. There are landlords who, at this time of crisis, have taken very positive initiatives to counter evictions. For example, the future in Gothenburg and Gavlegårdarna in Gävle are some that I want to highlight and that have made very good efforts to help their tenants. We also want to continue talking to the parties to see how we can best help to ensure that no one gets rid of their rental apartment. That is the objective of the government.
i-90dc744eaa67130d-66	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his report. I and many people appreciate these rapid efforts in the labour market but also efforts to stop evictions, which would otherwise happen, which makes people feel safe now. Our system states in the law that if you do not pay your rent, you get a reminder, and then you will at least get warnings. These efforts are therefore reassuring. The examples raised by the Government are municipal housing companies which, in fact, have not received incentives, are already helping their tenants. Which companies have helped some employees without state support? The investments made are very good. They are made in companies where many people have secure jobs. However, I am talking about a group that is insecure in the labour market and is already having a tough time paying bills. Now many children are also at home and you have to pay extra for food and other things. You also have the rent and all other extra costs due to the coronapdemine on your neck. That is why there is every reason for the government to make a real effort now. Calls are good. But I mean we can't wait. People go homeless. Then we will hold talks and make various efforts. With regard to the proposal to set up a fund, this is not just about the Corona crisis. We do not know what will happen next year or in two years. Therefore, it is good, for a preventive purpose, that the tenants, the commons and others feel that there is support for a future that is safer and stronger for the country's tenants. Banks receive incentives in the form of tax incentives for those who own their homes, and that is a good thing – but why should one not have the same investments, directly, instead of waiting and discussing? We don't know what's gonna happen in a month or two. We do not know how many people can come back to the companies that have already been supported, because everything is so uncertain. Even if it's gonna be all right in a year and everyone who's had a job gets it back then-- what are they gonna do for a year? How can you guarantee that they can pay? Are they going to social services? How do you strengthen social services? Will the government, for example, provide more housing supplement or increase housing allowance? That would be very good. I wonder whether the government will implement these proposals.
i-90dc744eaa67130d-72	Madam President, I would like It is true that the rental law says that you have to pay your rent in order to keep your contract, but there are also safeguards in the rental law. There is, for example, a inertia built in so that those who cannot pay their rent can still get a chance to recover their contract if you come in with measures and show that you can actually pay their rent in the future. There is also a requirement for the landlord to report to the social services before a contract is terminated, so that there is an opportunity for the municipality to enter and provide support to the tenant. It is important to remind you that we have provided historic support to the municipalities – only this year we have paid SEK 22 billion to the municipalities and regions in order to be able to make efforts to meet the effects of the Corona crisis. This money can be used in many different ways; for example, you can lower the requirements for returns in the municipal housing companies and in this way allow them to be more generous towards the tenants, who can then be deferred with the rent. The money can also be used to strengthen the possibilities of social services to help people who find themselves in a financially vulnerable situation and to support them so that they can just keep their rental contracts. If you manage to get people to keep their rental contracts even in this extremely difficult situation, that is something that all parties benefit from. Of course, those who have the contract and who retain their social security in the form of their home earn it, and the landlord gets a tenant who can continue to pay rents in the coming years, that is to say, long-term income. The municipality is also given the opportunity to help people quickly and effectively, rather than risk ending up in a situation where people need support and help for a long time and at high levels. There are therefore strong reasons for all parties to try to help each other to solve each unique situation. Of course, it is the parties to the rental market who have the main responsibility to try to resolve the situation. When you as a tenant find that you find it difficult to pay your rent, the best thing to do is to contact your landlord and try to get to a negotiation. They say: Now I have these difficulties-- can we help each other to resolve the situation? The experience is that many landlords actually try to be helpful, because they want to maintain contact with the customer that the tenant actually is. I would also like to make it clear that we in the government are not ruling out any measures at this stage. It is a uniquely difficult situation, and we must be prepared to do everything in our power to counter the negative consequences of the Corona crisis. It includes looking at many different measures, such as whether the state can take a more active role in providing resources. We have already paid a great deal of money to municipalities and regions, but as an example, we have also gone in with money to companies to lift them the fixed costs under their contract with the landlords – because it is such a large expense for the companies. In order for companies to continue providing their employees with wages and financial security, we have set aside money to help landlords to be generous. I think that we must be prepared to look at many different measures in order to help people to maintain the social security of housing. At best, however, it is a limited time when we have this extremely difficult economic situation. My call to all parties – municipalities, regions, landlords and Tenants' Association – is that it is now time to help each other. Now is the time to try to stretch out hands and help each other solve the situations. My clear contribution is that the state is absolutely prepared to do its part in finding the solutions.
i-90dc744eaa67130d-78	Madam President, I would like It is very positive that the government does not exclude anything, that is, there is no doubt as to whether there will be any action. Nevertheless, I must stress that the municipalities and regions have been in need for a long time; they were on their knees even before the coronapendem. They would therefore need twice as many billions to cope with health care, care and the deficit that many municipalities have admitted in recent years' cuts, sales and so on. It's important to remember that. They needed the money. Now, however, it is a completely different situation. Now it really is a world crisis and a health crisis for millions of people in the world. In Sweden, several thousand people are affected by this, and we must ensure that no one gets rid of the best and most important security they have, namely housing. If you're in a situation where social services come in, it's serious. Social services will then demand that you sell the car and other things, and then people get rid of a lot of other security. I am a social worker and know what it feels like to come to social services, but the law says this. I therefore hope that the Government will review the housing allowance and the housing allowance as soon as possible, ensure that the municipalities receive more reinforcement and set up a rental fund or a state fund to help.
i-90dc744eaa67130d-81	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Amineh Kakabaverh once again for raising an important question. It is worth recalling that there has never ever been such a large addition to municipalities and regions as the government now does. It is money that will be very useful. However, I share Amineh Kakabaveh's view that it is a difficult situation to be dependent on support for living and on the municipality and social services, and that is precisely why we have made enormous efforts to ensure that people retain their jobs and their financial security. For those who then, in the worst case, end up in unemployment, we have reduced the requirements for the unemployment fund so much that we can actually have that security of supply. Many more, therefore, will now be covered by unemployment insurance, which is also important in order to relieve municipalities and give people the opportunity to keep their contracts. We're working on a broad repertoire from the government. We need a dialogue to know which measures are most effective in helping people in this situation, and we already do. We also have an active housing policy, which means that a great many more homes are being built – especially small rental apartments with a lower rent level than would otherwise have been the case. Of course, it helps to get a well-functioning rental market. We have also taken many steps to help people who are already in homelessness, because it is also a hugely vulnerable group in this situation. We have contributed to municipalities and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare as well as non-profit organisations. We work hard, every day and every night, to find solutions so that the crisis can have as little social impact as possible. It also includes, of course, looking at how we can help tenants to keep their rental contracts and maintain the security that the dwelling provides. If we can make great efforts now, we have the opportunity to help people also in the long term – and thereby help Sweden out of the crisis.
