i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-2	Mr. Old President! The spread of the Corona virus is a global crisis and a major challenge for Sweden. First and foremost, of course, it is a major challenge for public health, and in the country many efforts are now being made to prevent the spread of infection too quickly, to strengthen health care and to protect groups at risk. The economic effects are, of course, also clear, and it meets the Swedish state with strong measures to support fundamentally viable Swedish companies that are now experiencing major problems. Short-term lay-offs reduce companies' wage costs. The government will lift the costs of sick pay. Opportunities for liquidity enhancements are introduced through the tax account. The Riksbank is now starting its lending of up to SEK 500 billion to the companies via the banks to ensure the credit supply. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority has made a decision to release a space for new lending of even larger amounts. Now it is also necessary for the banks to assume their social responsibility so that fundamentally viable Swedish companies do not have to fail unnecessarily. But today's extraordinary amending budget is specifically about aviation. In recent times we have all seen how the virus and the measures taken against its spread have hit Swedish aviation companies hard. The extraordinary situation requires that the credit guarantees proposed in this proposal can be issued as soon as possible. Mr. Old President! There are many who have a great deal of anxiety. Uncertainty in the outside world and in Sweden needs to be met with political cooperation, with determination and with stability. The government is closely following developments and, of course, does not exclude any more measures. Thanks to broad cooperation here in the Riksdag, we can act quickly and with great effort to support both citizens and companies. It is a united finance committee that supports the government's proposal. Now the whole of Sweden is working together to get through this together. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-6	Mr. Old President! Sweden is now being tested, both human and economic. I know that many of you who follow this discussion are concerned– you may be worried about your relatives, for yourself and for your jobs. Unfortunately, it will, with great probability, get worse before it gets better. Everyone must now help each other, and we will do this together. You can rest assured that we in Parliament and government will do everything we can to ensure that Sweden gets through this crisis. Mr. Old President! The most important thing right now is of course to reduce the spread of infection and to care for the sick, but the infection also affects Swedish companies and Swedish jobs. It's night black. It's like a horror movie. It's like a state of war. These are descriptions I have received just the last week in my conversations with many, many entrepreneurs, industry actors and trade union representatives. The proceeds have disappeared. The carpet is pulled away for entire industries. It's a difficult time. Therefore, we – the parliament and government – will do everything we can to now make the right decisions that support people, companies and industries in a very vulnerable situation. Mr. Old President! Thousands of people have been told that their jobs are at risk of disappearing. Others have already had to quit their jobs. The Moderates support the rescue packages presented so far by the government. They can save Swedish jobs, and they can save Swedish companies. But it will take more. Today we are going to decide on credit guarantees for Swedish airlines. Sweden needs to operate air transport now, but also when this crisis is over. In my contacts with different parts of the aviation industry, it has become very clear that they urgently need targeted support if they are to survive at all. Their revenues have fallen dramatically, and they often have no collateral. We are here today to act urgently and to do so jointly. Mr. Old President! Sweden is now being tested, both human and economic. I am convinced that we will overcome this crisis. The Swedish people are now making sacrifices and with great determination for Sweden to get through it. You buy food for people who are at risk and who should not go out among people. Every day and night those who can go to work. The nurse takes care of the sick. Police enforce the law. The engineer ensures that we have fresh and clean water coming out of the tap. The truck driver drives food out to the store, and the shop staff make sure the store can keep open. The bus driver makes sure that the doctor can actually get to work, and k onsulten works from home to reduce the spread of infection. We're all helping each other now. We must keep the wheels of the economy and everyday life rolling as best we can. Finally, Mr. Old President! Sweden is also being tested politically. V i in the Swedish Parliament, fewer than usual, gathers to quickly face the crisis that has now struck with force. Today we are taking one step, but we will have to do much, much more. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-17	Mr. Old President! Sweden and the world are in a very serious situation. The most important thing right now is of course to secure life and health, but the work to secure the Swedish economy, Swedish companies and Swedish jobs is also ongoing day and night. Several measures have been taken to ensure liquidity and to raise costs from Sweden's employers. We can already see that the scope of these measures is historic. We can also see that further action will be needed. Mr. Old President! However, we should not be fooled. If this crisis continues, it will be something we all bear in the form of further notice, bankruptcies and other kinds of difficulties that we as a society must go through together. Sweden has very strong public finances and therefore has very good opportunities to act, but not even our strength can parry all the negative consequences of a world economy that in many ways is in free fall. Mr. Old President! The essence of what we do these days is to secure central social functions. Our air traffic is clearly one of those that needs to be secured. With what we know today, the package we are deciding on today, with a credit line to the country's air traffic, is well balanced to give this social function a breathing space and to give the companies in question the opportunity to continue to operate. However, as with everything else, no one can guarantee each individual flight departure, each individual route or even each individual airline. It is also clear that we will have to follow this part of society forward in order, if necessary, to take further steps to secure this very central function of society. Mr. Old President! In the knowledge that we have the largest part of this very hard work ahead of us and in the assurance that we will manage this if we continue to work together, I call for approval of the bill.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-24	Mr. Old President! We have gathered together in different ways. It is good and a strength in a very difficult situation. We agree that we will do everything we can to prevent infection and protect risk groups where many have diseases or are elderly. We will do everything we can to stop the spread, to keep people in their jobs and to keep viable businesses alive. These are reasonable and perfectly logical starting points in a situation like this. Around this we have gathered. The measures presented so far have been considered reasonable and logical at the present stage and have also gained a great deal of support. I also believe that we agree that much more measures will be needed. We can see that the society we have built is fragile in many ways. We have far too few employees in welfare. We have privatised in a way that has caused us to break the infrastructure of welfare, which makes society more fragile. We do not have as robust safety nets as we would need in the form of health insurance and unemployment insurance, for example. To this we will have to come back, because it is really needed. It was needed before the crisis, and it will need even more during the crisis and also in the discussions afterwards. Today we are debating the aviation crisis package. It's kind of hard because you want to change. At this point, however, it is the crisis that has been left to control. From the Left side we believe that there should be a plan after the Corona for how to reduce flying by phasing out subsidies and more for aviation and offering sustainable alternatives. Our position is that air travel, both domestic and international, must be reduced for climate reasons. We therefore believe that in the future measures will have to be introduced to phase out subsidies and public aid for increased flying. But these are measures that we need to introduce in an orderly manner. Therefore, in the crisis situation that Sweden is currently in with regard to the Corona virus, we support the Government's proposal for a temporary emergency package for aviation. Even after the crisis, domestic airlines will be needed. We need to travel both in the country and abroad. We need fire and ambulance flights and more. We also want airline employees to have decent working conditions and salaries. It is also important, therefore, that such companies have the chance to cope with this crisis. An organised transition is needed to cope with the climate crisis. We'll have to get back to that after the Corona crisis.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-33	Mr. Old President! The Corona crisis is now breaking into Swedish society with full force. People feel anxious. Health care faces major challenges. Entrepreneurs and people at their jobs are worried about what is waiting around the corner. Politics in Sweden must be prepared to do what is necessary to secure Swedish jobs and ensure that we can now gain control of the situation. Such an important part, of course, is to stand up in order for us to continue to have an aviation industry. When we get out of the crisis and return to normal, there will be airlines. That is why the bill that is now on Parliament's table is very important, as it ensures that the basic social function of aviation will also be a part of Swedish society in the future. Mr. Old President! This is a time for political gathering. It is not a time for party political bickering. I welcome all the proposals that come from the parties in this House in the Swedish Parliament, and I welcome the fact that together we take a joint responsibility for bringing Sweden through the crisis that we are currently experiencing. With this, I call for the proposal to be approved.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-38	Mr. Old President! The pandemic we're in affects us all. It affects us through concern for loved ones. It affects us through concern for the job. Regrettably, entrepreneurs are concerned about their activities at the moment. Cash flow in many companies has slowed down completely. It is clear from the environmental and cooperation parties that we will need to see the work to deal with the crisis at different stages. Right now we are in an emergency phase, where we are taking emergency measures to mitigate the effects. The most important thing in the short term is that as many people as possible can keep jobs and income. We can do this by supporting fundamentally viable companies in various ways so that they can keep their employees and remain with their products and services even after the crisis. The very first measures were of a general nature and were aimed at ensuring that the companies could be offered loans and liquidity. Now we are entering a stage where we need to do more sector-specific measures. Different industries face different kinds of challenges. A first such measure is the one we are dealing with here today: targeted support for the aviation industry, which was the first to see the restrictions imposed in Sweden and in other countries. The rest of the transport industry is also very affected. Many in shipping are now working extremely hard to get goods into Sweden. Solving manning issues in shipping is now very difficult, and I know that many are working hard on it. The bus industry is severely affected, and it is important to remember that the commercial bus industry is closely intertwined with public transport. We need to continue to follow this, and we will have to make more targeted measures for other parts of the transport industry and for other parts of society as well. Today, Parliament is taking a step in this. I look forward to the fact that here in Parliament we continue to talk about who should be the further steps. Then there will come a time after Corona, when the Swedish economy will get a real new start. Then I see good opportunities for this new start to be characterized by the goals that the Riksdag has set for example linked to sustainability and climate. We will have to do this later, as has already been said here in the speaker's chair. Here and now it is crisis measures and gathering, and I am very proud to be part of a parliament that can gather in this way. I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-46	Mr. Old President! I stand here as the representative of all parties in Parliament on the Education Committee. It is a strength that, in an extraordinary situation, we can get together and agree on proposals for decisions and also speak with one voice. I would therefore like to begin by expressing my warm thanks to all parties and, above all, to the group leaders, who have been constructive both in talks with Minister Anna Ekström and in the committee work during the weekend and the days thereafter. This has greatly contributed to our being able to vote in full agreement this afternoon. We need to stay one step ahead. The law we are to decide on this afternoon is a measure that is needed for us to have access to the right tools if schools need to be closed. We are not there yet, but if we end up there, the principals need to know that there is a law that gives them both opportunities and obligations. I would like to emphasise that it is important that we listen to the recommendations of the Public Health Agency and act accordingly. That is how we usually deal with normal situations, and that is how we deal with crises. The Education Committee proposes that the Riksdag decide on a new law on the temporary closure of school activities in the event of extraordinary events in peacetime. This law allows school leaders or the government to temporarily decide that preschool units, school units, recreation centres or other activities under the School Act can be closed locally, regionally or nationally on the basis of the recommendations of the Public Health Agency or disease control doctors or if many of the staff are ill, which makes ordinary activities impossible. However, the law also imposes an obligation to have care open to children who have guardians who work in socially important activities or those children who, due to physical, mental or other reasons, need special support in their development. The law is proposed to take effect on 21 March 2020 and is based on a committee initiative from the committee. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-51	Mr. Old President! We will now debate the European Commission's work programme in a so-called review report. This means that we and all the other committees have read and analysed the European Commission's work programme and then have a debate on its content. The debate itself and the decision taken by Parliament today will have no meaning whatsoever or influence on the content of the European Commission's work programme, but it is a way for Parliament to create a debate on the EU and EU issues. The Committee on Foreign Affairs therefore proposes that the Parliament add the statement to the file, i.e. closes the case. In these coronatides it may feel a little less prioritised to debate these issues, but as Queen sang: The show must go on. For my part, I would therefore like to highlight the so-called subsidiarity principle. It is a principle that is often heard about in the European context. What, then, is the principle that hides behind this long name? Well, the principle of subsidiarity means that decisions should be taken as close to the citizen as possible in order to gain the best possible understanding of local conditions. It's a pretty good principle on paper that I think many of us agree with. If a municipality can decide on one thing, why should the EU interfere with it – quite simply? The problem with the principle of subsidiarity, apart from being difficult to spell and a difficult word to pronounce, is that it is rarely seen to be applied. Instead, the EU has the ability to soak up the question in order instead to regulate and decide on these at European level. This means, for example, that this Assembly, the Riksdag, loses some power to the EU institutions further away from the citizens, but we never feel that power comes back from Brussels to the Swedish Parliament. It is perhaps not surprising that a political level above another political level believes that it is better suited to make political decisions than the level below. In the Swedish debate, we have seen proposals for national health care and education rather than for them to be managed at regional and municipal level. One thing that is currently under discussion at EU level is increased supranationality through the decision-making processes of the common foreign and security policy, called the CFSP, so that no one can understand what it is all about. Instead of all Member States having their own foreign policy and working together in the EU once one agrees, we have seen in recent decades attempts to find a common foreign policy for the EU. Politics has become watered down and a somewhat toothless European policy. One challenge that has often been faced is that a single Member State of the 27 can stop common wordings and opinions against which it is opposed. This has been particularly true for Hungary, but other EU countries have also used the tactic of being counter-versive to change the views of the whole of the EU on one issue – often on a completely different issue from the one being opposed. How, then, do the European Commission and the Swedish Government want to resolve this? Well, the proposal is to move even more power from Sweden and other Member States to the EU and Brussels. It wants to introduce what is called a qualified majority, that is to say, it is enough for two thirds of all countries to think equally in order for the EU to decide that this view applies to all EU countries. The system of qualified majority voting may result in Swedish foreign policy not being determined by what you think at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Stockholm or in the Swedish Parliament. Mr. Old President! All power is based on the people, and the parliament is the people's main representative. But what if those in charge of Swedish foreign policy are not even elected by the Swedish people? What does Sweden do on the day that the Visegrád countries, which are more and many times stronger than Sweden and our neighbouring Member States, decide on a foreign policy that is not in line with our values? All these questions would be answered by the supporters of the proposal, but so far the answers have been thinned. I was before I entered Parliament an official in the service of the EU bureaucracy. My task was to manage EU aid at the most local level on the basis of local conditions. It was considered that my local knowledge was important in order to be able to make the wisest decisions – in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. In reality, however, there were only words on one piece of paper. My decisions at the local level were then reviewed, in the true EU-bureaucratic spirit, by a higher level, first at the county administrative board in Karlstad and then at the Board of Agriculture in Jönköping. When they wanted to tighten up and increase the uniformity of the country and in the EU, it resulted even more in local conditions having to push their feet for a tightening of the regulatory framework. Once again, the fine words about the principle of subsidiarity were not in reality. The principle of subsidiarity became a principle that I have never seen when it comes to reality. In this report, the Left Party has a special opinion on two issues in which our opinion differs from that of the majority in committee. There is also a reservation on the issue of the conference on the future of Europe. Our representative democracy is based on elected representatives in national parliaments, such as the Riksdag, not on a statistical sample of the population. The method of EU conference has been tried before, and I myself was secretary in a group work at a conference. The results were, to say the least, meagre. In these coronatides, it is probably particularly wise to put ideas about big meetings between citizens on the future, whether or not they have any real impact on European policy. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-63	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the reservations to be rejected. After all, this debate takes place a little afterwards and often has a slightly broader EU perspective than the Commission's work programme in detail. Mr. Old President! Firstly, a few comments on the future conference of the European Union. It is important to strengthen democratic legitimacy within the EU. A future conference could be part of this. However, it is important that the conference becomes part of the whole basis for future decisions. National parliaments must continue to be important participants in the design of greater transparency, democratisation and participation of European citizens. The principle of subsidiarity is enshrined in the Treaty to the parliaments, and it must be respected and valued in the same way as it is now. It is good that citizens are becoming more active between the elections to the European Union, but the current order of decisions should continue to guide us. New views from the citizens are of course a good complement – it is from the voters that we politicians get more nourishment for decision-making. The work programme contains four priority strategic areas: Mr. Old President! It is important that we protect citizens and the freedoms enshrined in the Treaties. The EU's internal market promotes mobility thanks to these freedoms. The free movement of goods and services and of people is a foundation within the EU and should continue to be so. The EU is the world's largest economy and accounts for over 20% of the world's gross domestic product. The unity of the EU-27 will ensure this, because, despite the fact that EU countries are often very different in terms of political traditions and cultures, the EU still manages to reach agreement on important decisions on a daily basis. It is a unique force in these times when nationalist currents are trying to create unrest and polarisation across Europe. It is therefore particularly important that the EU-27 should also come together for a proper review after the phase-out of the coronapndemine. After all, no one could have foreseen the magnitude and speed of the pandemic at all, but there have been very different approaches among the Member States and often not fully effective or reasonable positions with completely closed borders between EU countries, the introduction of national export bans within the EU despite the fact that it is contrary to the Treaties and so on. The next few years will be critical of the EU's economic base. It is urgent that all EU countries take responsibility over the next few years to curb the negative effects of the pandemic. It is about ensuring that European citizens have jobs, that the welfare of all citizens is guaranteed and that the internal market is further strengthened. It is important to promote innovation in synergy between EU countries, not least in relation to the UN's sustainability objectives. It is also important for the EU to take further steps towards an equal labour market in terms of both hours worked and to increase the number of women in senior positions in companies and boards. Here we Social Democrats support the Commission's proposal for a directive on gender balance among non-executive directors of stock exchange companies. In a report by EIGE, the European Institute for Gender Equality, the overall results show that improvements in gender equality would lead to a large increase in the number of jobs that would benefit both women and men, up to 10 1⁄2 million additional jobs by 2050, many of which would be filled by women, a strong positive development of GDP per capita that would improve over time and an increase in the EU's GDP per capita of up to almost 10% by 2050. Almost 10% is a lot, especially in these times when we really need to strengthen economic development. Mr. Old President! When it comes to building a climate-neutral, green, fair and social Europe, the EU is well placed to take the lead in a global perspective. After all, the EU is a leader in the Paris Agreement and acts uniquely as a coherent Union in order to meet the global and vital climate goals. It is therefore important for the EU to pool resources within the EU in order to promote climate neutrality between countries. Some of the countries have longer distances than we in Sweden, Denmark and Finland, for example, and depend on old, fossil fuel-intensive energy systems, which require fast and economically burdensome decisions. In this context, the EU must jointly review the different funding and support mechanisms so that all EU countries can make an urgent contribution to achieving the intentions of the Paris Agreement. It is also important that countries with tough conversion decisions contribute with economic priorities and not rely solely on EU solidarity. Mr. Old President! We need an equal and social Europe. The welfare models are national competence, but the EU has jointly agreed on the social pillar on the initiative of Stefan Löfven and the Swedish Government. The pillar is based on three principles: equal opportunities and access to the labour market, fair working conditions and social protection and social inclusion. The EU institutions, the Member States, the social partners and other stakeholders are jointly responsible for ensuring that the principles and rights of the social pillar are implemented. The EU institutions will create the conditions and set out the direction for the implementation of the pillar, if necessary through legislation, while respecting the responsibilities and different circumstances of the countries. We Social Democrats welcome this. As in other parts of the EU pillar, it is important that EU citizens are guaranteed rights in the Member States based on the above principles. Just as the principles of free movement are guaranteed, it is perfectly reasonable for citizens to have the right to good and reasonable working conditions and welfare. Mr. Old President! Finally, something about promoting Europe's interests and values in a global context. The EU has built a strong and successful common foreign and security policy for several years. In times when several of the great powers have wavered or only had self-interests in mind to influence the global world order, the EU has repeatedly worked to promote peace and security before instability and war. It is therefore important and urgent that cooperation and solidarity between EU countries be maintained. It is also important that the EU continues to work towards including and linking more countries on the European continent to the EU. North Macedonia and Albania are ready for accession talks. Here, the European Union in the Community must take rapid steps to make it happen. It is also important that the accession talks with Serbia and Montenegro do not stop and take place in such a way that the will of both sides is positive and forward-looking. The Eastern Partnership is important for the EU and the partner countries. It has created new opportunities for trade and economic exchange, and the future is positive for further new cooperation initiatives. Mr. Old President! Together, the EU and its Member States are the world's largest donor and donor in humanitarian crises. The European Union accounts for just over half of the world's aid, while the United States contributes 20%. In the future, it is important that the EU continues to be a clear and active donor – especially when other, formerly major donors falter, start looking more at targeted aid efforts and try to reduce multilateral aid efforts. Both humanitarian and development aid shall be allocated primarily multilaterally and fairly linked to development needs. For us in Sweden, the principles of feminist foreign policy are important. Equality between women and men is a fundamental objective of Swedish foreign policy. The fulfilment of women's and girls' fundamental human rights is both an obligation within the framework of international commitments and a prerequisite for achieving Sweden's broader foreign policy objectives of peace, security and sustainable development. An increasing number of countries within the EU share this value, and it is my hope that the EU, as the world's largest donor in growing unity, has the above principles as a beacon linked to the UN's sustainability goals.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-86	Mr. Old President! At a time when completely different issues are on the agenda and almost paralyses the whole world, we must not forget that there is a time after the Corona virus. The Commission's work programme is not just anything. It will affect almost half a billion people living in Europe. It is an agenda that is set, which is important for continuing to create development for the Union. The Moderates believe, Mr President-in-Office, that priority should be given to substantive policy in order to solve real problems. The focus for the EU in the future therefore needs to be on improving policies in areas such as migration, climate and environment, law enforcement and competitiveness, to name but a few, rather than putting a great deal of effort into rather navel-looking discussions on insti tutional issues. That is where we agree with the government. However, there is no discussion of the EU's long-term ambitions as leading and democratic power in the world. According to consistent forecasts, by 2050 the EU will fall to fourth place in the League of Growth. This must be taken very seriously, and neither the EU as a whole nor its Member States should lose focus on the efforts to build knowledge, skills and research at the best level in order to withstand competition from other parts of the world. Safeguarding and developing Europe's competitiveness is the best policy for the future, because without competitiveness, the other objectives of the Commission's work programme will only be an empty hope. Mr. Old President! The conference on the future of Europe is the second part of the opinion. This is a conference designed to strengthen democracy in Europe and give citizens the opportunity to make their voices heard. It will start in this year and run for two years. In this context, the Moderates want the conference to have the following priorities: a stronger Europe in the outside world, the rule of law, common migration policy, internal security and law enforcement, environmental and climate policy and competitiveness. But let us make it clear that Europe has more important things to deal with than countless more seminars and big meetings. There is, of course, nothing wrong with discussing and trying to revitalise the debate on the future of Europe. We welcome the initiative for a conference on the future of Europe. But it is also important to be careful that this is not just a dissociation club. Another round of discussions on the idea of alienation of ordinary citizens risks even leading to this becoming a reality. It is therefore important to press for national parliaments to play a role in this conference. They usually have more and better ground contact than the European Parliament. Mr. Old President! The future of Europe is not always the same as the future of Europe, even if it is closely linked. The conference also needs to take into account the roles of other organisations. The EU is, and will remain, the main arena for joint European cooperation, but the roles of the other bodies of cooperation must also be part of the organisation. This should avoid duplication of tasks and responsibilities. For example, the Council of Europe with the European Court of Human Rights should be the main body for promoting and guaranteeing human rights. In this respect, the EU does not need to develop its own regime in which the Charter of Rights becomes directly binding in the Member States. At the same time, NATO should remain the guarantor of European security, so European defence efforts must be directly complementary to those of NATO. The Union is created by and for the Member States. Member States are represented in the EU context by their governments, but the role of national parliaments can also be clarified. Mr. Old President! That is why this conference must not be the start of an 'A' and 'B' team in European cooperation. No parallel decision-making bodies, such as a European Parliament, should be created. Indeed, the inherent inertia of EU cooperation has its own value. Safeguarding the functioning of the rule of law in all countries must be a clear priority. The same applies to the implementation of the Union budget and to the exercise of the rights of Swedish citizens in one country in all Member States. It is simply difficult to create a true representativeness in forums such as citizens' dialogues, when input is determined most by those who engage. The conclusions of the conference should not therefore, of course, trump the policies shaped by the ordinary European elections, where representativeness is simply much better than can be achieved through civil dialogues or the like. The conclusions resulting from the conference must therefore be strictly consultative.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-101	Mr. Old President! European cooperation is currently facing perhaps the most complex challenges ever – this could be said even before the crisis we are in today. Our common future stands and falls largely with Europe's capacity for new thinking, pragmatism and, above all, the desire to break old destructive patterns. The dogmatic attitude of certain social-liberal parties, both in Europe and to some extent in this House, concerns ideas of an ever-closer Union with an ever-expanding influence in the EU area, the ambition to regulate in detail at EU level everything from summer time and straws to minimum wages and migration policies, an ever-growing administration with accompanying cost increases and uncontrolled and unlimited mass immigration from developing countries. Mr. Old President! This policy has come to an end. The European elections were an indication that a new, reform-friendly wind is blowing across Europe. Real change is inevitable, and it comes. Unfortunately, however, the priorities that are necessary to secure the future of European cooperation are not reflected in the work programme that we are discussing here today, but the realisation that business as usual will not be able to continue, I believe, when the legislative proposals are to be further developed. There is a great deal to be said about this work programme, but for time reasons I shall confine myself to a few areas, starting with the social pillar. It is a clear example where the European clout must be countered in the gate. These are the proposals for common unemployment insurance and minimum wage rules. As far as the social pillar itself is concerned, it is, firstly, a somewhat odd construction. It is so-called soft law, which is not legally binding. On the other hand, it is claimed by some to be politically binding, which is a rather strange way of working. The fact that something would be politically binding means nothing at all in EU law. As far as the issue of minimum wages is concerned, there is not yet a strong proposal, only a consultation process with the social partners where the Commission has announced its intention to take action. The consultation document that we have received does not indicate any legal basis, what type of act it would be or what exactly the measure itself would be. At least the main objective is to regulate minimum wages in some way. All clear-minded people understand, of course, that it would be completely insane to leave the right to decide on minimum wages to the EU, and the parties behind this work therefore tend to refer to Article 153(5) of the Treaty, which deals with the right to legislate in this area and its statutes: ..................................................... To the untrained eye, therefore, it may appear that the Union is explicitly not entitled to legislate in this area. It should be remembered, however, that the EU is an institution that does not have the habit of complying with its own rules. There are a great many examples of this. The second area I intended to focus on in this debate is migration policy within the European Union. The government's plan for order and order in migration is based on two pillars: the so-called Turkey Agreement or the Turkey Declaration, and the hope of a redistribution mechanism that forces other Member States to accept more migrants. The Turkey agreement was an ill-considered ad hoc solution to a problem which has long been understood by everyone to be permanent. The agreement meant that Europe was outsourcing its border guard to an authoritarian, Islamist and hostile semi-dictatorship and that the EU was caught up in a permanent negotiating disadvantage, giving Erdo a free opportunity to invade its neighbours, start wars in Syria and knock down the domestic opposition without the opportunity for the EU to react. The EU knew from the outset that Erdo中an wanted to use migration as a weapon to blackmail, but nevertheless chose to play along. We opposed the agreement from day one on the grounds that it puts the EU at a disadvantage, that Erdo中an is not a reliable partner and that the issue of migration needs an effective and permanent solution. It is time to resolve the migration crisis once and for all, which means abolishing the rules allowing for residence permits after irregular entry and a transition to a voluntary quota refugee system instead. But what does the Commissioner responsible Ylva Johansson do? Well, she continues to waste her own and our time in inciting and threatening the forced redistribution of migrants, even though everyone with the slightest bit of reality knows that it is a dead horse that will not be resurrected. And thank God for that! Then there is the conference on the future of Europe. Europe Day on 9 May would have been the start of the so-called conference on the future of Europe, but what I understand from media data is the plans changed today. It remains to be seen when there is a conference on the future of Europe, so I will skip it and thank you for me.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-114	Mr. Old President! This is the newly elected Commission's first work programme after the European Parliament elections last spring. We have been waiting to see which path the Commission is going to take. There were many of us who felt that 2020 and the 2020 work programme would be marked by Brexit. We've become used to it. This was the case when Britain decided to leave the Union on 31 January. This entry into the year meant that we thought that in future there would be a lot of focus on how to shape our cooperation as 27 Member States and find contact points with the UK. Let me say on our part that it is an extremely important task to try to find a good solution to Britain's leaving Europe. The result depends very much on how we move forward in areas that are our priorities, such as free trade, transparency and good economic development on our continent but also globally. It is important that we do not forget this mission where we are now. Who could know when we started the process of the Commission's work programme that we would now be in an environment where the focus is entirely on the coronavirus and its management? Let me say, Mr President-in-Office, that even in this situation there is reason to emphasise the value of our having a structure in place for cooperation on our continent. The channels are open, and we have Council meetings, albeit in new forms. It is a way of resolving matters on the basis of the agreements that we have. Now there are many who discuss and say: Look, now borders are being re-established! It is two miles of our freight traffic to get past with the new border controls. Or they will be standing for 24 hours, and we will not get the goods that we have ordered to meet the health care needs when it comes to handling the corona virus. However, in this situation we still have a structure in place in order to be able to take the discussions and resolve the issues. I think we have reason to remind ourselves of this when we now see the effects, both on what closed borders can mean for our trade and on our openness and on how we can find ways to achieve solutions. There is every reason to highlight this in a discussion on the 2020 work programme. We will face more challenges, but at least we have a structure for discussions and solutions on this continent. We know there will be some time after the Corona crisis. Who knows-- something new could happen. At least we have effective crisis training now, you can say. Of course, the challenges we have now will also affect the work of the Commission in the coming year. It does not end with the actual handling of the virus, but we also have the economic consequences. But here too we have the ability to jointly gain stronger muscles through interaction rather than acting entirely on our own. I hope that there will be a strong focus on this in the work on our continent and within the European Union also in the future. As I said, the work programme adopted by the Commission on 29 January is now on the borderline of Brexit. We have studied it and sent it to other committees. Seven of the committees have spoken to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and that is, of course, welcome. I note that, broadly speaking, we have a consensus in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and this is based on what we have supported in the past with regard to the European Council's strategic priorities for the next five years. The Commission points out a number of interesting points: the European Green Party, a Europe equipped for the digital age, an economy for people, a stronger Europe in the world and the promotion of European lifestyles. This way of life has been rather controversial, but it is basically about the rule of law, democracy, openness, tolerance and equality – what we believe should always be there but which we know is threatened. On this basis, it is also a new investment in democracy in Europe, which is actually challenged, not least by Russia and China. I think it is crucial that we have a common vision here in Parliament. We almost do, but not entirely, because there are parties that deviate and want to make foreign policy national again. But take the discussion with China! Would we be stronger alone, or are we stronger together? From the point of view of the Center Party, the answer is simple: we are stronger if we can form a common position. We want decision-making to be made more effective also in the field of foreign policy, and we hope that the outcome will be this. We also want to see the ability to have MR tools. We are talking about a Magnitsky legislation and we would like to see this at European level. Mr. Old President! A lot of other things have come up. As far as the conference is concerned, let us see: it will certainly be needed. We need a fresh start, a fresh start. I hope that the signals that come from different national parliaments about the important anchoring and discussion of this will be taken on board. I assume you'll have to think about it there. Finally, I have a few comments on committees. For example, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has unanimously raised the issue of not moving forward with the proposal on minimum wages. I would also like to underline what the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture has said and which we also emphasise in the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs: that new initiatives and regulations must not have negative consequences for countries that have gone ahead in the reform process. With this, Mr President-in-Office, I call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-127	Mr. Old President! We live in changing times. The work programme that we are debating today was adopted by the European Commission on 29 January. A month and a half later, the conditions, as we know, are completely changed. The spread of the Corona virus and the pandemic with which the world is struggling today are unparalleled. Personal tragedies and lamenting concerns are mixed with economic decline and pompous political leadership. Against this background, the Christian Democrats want to highlight the importance of international cooperation and the central importance of the EU. No country is able to deal with the present situation on its own. The way forward is more solidarity and more responsible cooperation, cooperation capable of delivering solutions to cross-border problems, whether organised crime, climate change or life-threatening viruses. The citizens of our country, in Sweden, and in the rest of Europe have the right to make demands for effective cooperation, especially in times of crisis. Therefore, it does not stand to let national self-interest and short-termism govern decision-making. That is why political leadership is needed that is willing and able to live up to the Union's values of human dignity and of solidarity with the most vulnerable, even if they are beyond the borders of its own country. Mr. Old President! In the work programme, the Commission sets out the policy priorities for the coming year and the initiatives to be expected. Shifting policies are addressed here. The starting point is the six policy objectives formulated by European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, including on the so-called Green Deal, on a Europe equipped for the digital age, on the economy of people and on a stronger Europe in the world. These are key areas. The Christian Democrats mainly support the content of the work programme, but in some respects make a different assessment from that of the Commission. This applies to the social pillar, where the proposed instrument on minimum wages runs counter to the self-determination of the Member States, as we see it, and threatens the Swedish model. This is the Green Paper, where the wording on renewable energy should be changed to fossil-free energy so that the future need for electricity can also be covered by nuclear energy. This applies to the forest strategy of the work programme, where the EU's key actions risk weakening the conditions for sustainable Swedish forestry. This also applies to the view of the EU budget and the importance of preventing EU tax and shock increases in Member States' contributions. Mr. Old President! Basically, politics is about ideology and human vision. For the Christian Democrats, this means highlighting the importance of personal freedom combined with social responsibility and solidarity with the most vulnerable – in other words, the values that have been the basis for European cooperation for decades. This is important, not least in relation to the outside world. Whether it be the war in Syria, the dictatorship in Iran, the development in Russia or the persecution of the world's Christians, the EU has an opportunity to make a difference on the basis of its values. That is why the Christian Democrats are in favour of a Europe that speaks with one voice in foreign policy and which always prioritises human rights. Combining the vision of cooperation between Europe's countries with a vigilance on subsidiarity is the specific mission of Christian democracy. There is no doubt that the European institutions need to be more aware of and also to understand that there are limits to what the European Union should be doing. Without this understanding, the foundations of the European idea are threatened, but also the peoples of the European Union. Confidence, knowledge and participation are key factors in maintaining and increasing support for EU cooperation. To this end, the proposed Conference on the Future can make an important contribution. Ambitions to reduce the distance between citizens and decision-makers in Europe should always be welcomed, although it is the elected parliaments that ultimately represent the citizens. Mr. Old President! The fate of Europe is the destiny of every European state. So formulated once Konrad Adenauer. Europe is free and independent states, but at the same time a cohesive entity. Safeguarding this will be one of the major challenges of the important and unusual time ahead. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-141	Mr. Old President! In times of crisis, too, something good comes. For example, we are now at last having joint talks and important discussions on the challenges we are facing. In the same spirit, I hope that in the future we can continue with discussions on problems and challenges that we have in Swedish school. Regardless of the Corona, we have major problems and disadvantaged areas. We have a number of good motions from all parties that have in principle been rejected in bulk with reference to investigations and measures taken. That is a pity, because there are many good and necessary proposals here. They could have facilitated the situation we are in. The bonuses are about the school's values, gender equality work, the fantastic potential of leisure centres, security and studyo, where there is much to do, to name a few. Today, however, I would particularly like to mention a motion of censure on the Moderates' reservation 3. This exercise is about the digitisation of the national tests. Here we Moderates have come forward and proposed a faster digitisation of the national tests, greater resources to make it work, more adapted national tests that are digitised, centrally corrected by external authorities and adapted even to children with different functional variations. Mr. Old President! If this exercise had been read, discussed and, at best, approved, one of the problems we now face, when we start home schooling and some schools are forced to shut down certain subjects, would have been solved. To hold talks with all parties about important things for our future is to show leadership and to be able to discuss with everyone at difficult times about various proposals that can lead to something good is to take responsibility for Sweden's future. I look forward to having discussions in peace and quiet about Swedish school and our future.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-149	Mr. Old President! We Swedish democrats naturally agree with all our reservations, but for time winning, I only ask for reservation No 4. At a difficult time, now that we are facing a major pandemic affecting everyone in society, I hope that we will jointly help each other through this crisis. Our school has been wrestling for several decades with, among other things, problems with order. Too many schools and classes do not provide the necessary studies to enable students to have a successful education. It is time for us politicians to put our foot down and help. The fact that pupils, teachers and other school staff do not get the good working environment that they deserve brings enormous problems. Students don't feel well and find it difficult to assimilate, teachers don't feel well and maybe quit, fewer students train as teachers, and so on. The list of problems that arise is long and can be made even longer. We are making proposals here that will improve the current situation. Those students who create the greatest problems, those who commit serious crimes at a young age – unfortunately, they are – and are under investigation and investigated for crimes should not be in school. These pupils will carry out their schooling elsewhere, which may also take the form of home schooling with the support of teachers. It is important that it is the police, social services or other relevant bodies that decide this. If it turns out later that the students are innocent of what they have been accused of, they are, of course, welcome back to school. In our exercise, we clearly describe the changes required in the school law and, of course, would have liked to hear it. Those students who at times perform messy, rowdy or too loud, we want to offer on-call class or on-call school. Here we refer to students who repeatedly disturb others and impair the common working environment. Students may be in such a class for a longer or shorter period, perhaps a few hours. This determines the teachers with special competence responsible for the on-call class or on-call school. Emergency classes or equivalents already exist in a few places today, but we want to give this opportunity to all teachers throughout the country. Asking a student to leave the classroom today is not entirely unproblematic from several points of view. On the one hand, the regulatory framework is unclear, as many school leaders have experienced – this is made clear in another report – and, on the other hand, the teacher should be able to fulfil her supervisory duty. The ability to supervise an entire class is considerably complicated when a student is asked to leave the classroom without having a receiver there. In order to further strengthen the seriousness of school order, we want to introduce order review from year 1. For the vast majority of teachers, this will be a "okay" to report. In a few other cases, of course, after warnings from the teacher, a few lines will be written to be served on the guardian. Attending at school is a prerequisite for successful schooling. It also shows in some form the student's sense of duty and judgment. Therefore, we also believe that the student's absence should be reported in the comprehensive school's final grade. I would like to conclude my somewhat shortened speech by giving some advice to students for a successful schooling: 1. Be present at school! 2. Don't mess with your schoolmates and teachers, and behave upbringed! 3. Always do your best! If you follow as a student this increases the opportunities for a successful schooling significantly.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-163	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 10 in the report. That is also the reservation that I have chosen to focus on in order to reduce the debate as much as possible. Mr. Old President! Of Chapter 2 Section 36 of the School Act states that pupils in comprehensive school, primary school, special school, Sami school, upper secondary school and upper secondary school must have access to school libraries. This provision applies to both public and independent schools. Nevertheless, there are schools, mainly independent, which still do not have school libraries as an integral part of the school but refer to the nearest public library, which in some cases is many miles away. The Left Party believes that school libraries should be an integral part of the school and that all schools should have school libraries with trained staff. Although the scope of these libraries may, of course, vary, library buses or urban libraries should not be enough. These should be seen as complementary activities to the integrated school library rather than remuneration. We therefore believe that the government should come back as soon as possible with a proposal that strengthens pupils' rights to school libraries. The school libraries will give students access to a rich range of media and both fiction and non-fiction. A library where well-trained library staff work together with the educational staff can attract and satisfy children's and young people's literacy, curiosity and research interest, as well as help them to orient themselves among new media and in the flow of information online. The research shows that this approach also raises students' study results. Unfortunately, the staffed school libraries have become fewer, according to statistics from the Royal Library. Only 37 per cent of Swedish students today have access to a staffed school library. Access to school libraries is statutory but not staffed. At the same time, children read less today than a number of years ago. Reading and discovering literature is crucial to each child's reading comprehension, writing, and critical thinking. School librarians have a key role to play when it comes to opening doors to literature and media. The Left Party therefore believes that it is important for all children and young people to meet knowledgeable staff at a school library. We believe that there should be a requirement for school librarians in the school law. We also want Parliament to support this. In addition, Mr President-in-Office, I would just like to thank all the school staff who are doing their very best in the situation that has arisen in these very strange times. I am also pleased that we have agreed on the solutions that have so far been presented by the parties in committee. I hope that will continue to be the case in the coming weeks.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-171	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Christian Democrats' motion 2019/ 20:3188 motion 22, but of course I support all our other proposals in our motion. In this debate we are discussing fundamental questions about education. The committee's report is indeed beginning with a chapter on the values of schools. We can be proud of the values set out in the school law and curriculum. The school law's portal clause states that the education must also convey and anchor respect for human rights and the fundamental democratic values on which Swedish society is founded. ..................................................... The curriculum deepens this: a person who works in school should also promote respect for each person's self-worth and respect for our common environment. The inviolability of human life, the freedom and integrity of the individual, the equal value of all people, equality between women and men, and solidarity between people are the values that the school is to express and convey. In line with the ethics of Christian tradition and Western humanism, this is done through the individual's education of justice, generosity, tolerance and responsibility. ..................................................... In the curriculum, it is also stated that a colan's task is to allow each individual student to find his or her unique character and thereby be able to participate in society by giving his or her best in responsible freedom. There is obviously a lot to work with among students and unfortunately also among teachers. A report from Sweden's Christian Council, SKR, which includes most Christian religions, recently showed that half of the young people surveyed experience violations at school. The most striking thing is that in a quarter of the cases teachers violate. I spoke yesterday with the leader of one of the Christian student organizations that collaborated in the SKR study. She pointed out that what many students find most difficult to handle is just when teachers and other adults question and mock their faith before the class. Mr. Old President! To be mocked, dumbed-down and questioned by one's teacher, who is dependent on him, also in front of his classmates, should not have to be subjected to in a society that has signed up to human rights and freedoms. The worst of all is perhaps that students in the SKR survey have stated that no one has cared when they have turned to school for help. Obviously, in our Swedish secular society there is a great ignorance and lack of understanding of believers. There is a need for extensive training. Everyone who works in school must be able to deal professionally with the fact that there are people with different philosophical and religious beliefs, as well as other minority groups. They should be treated with respect, even if you as a teacher or student do not share this conviction yourself. This is something we need to come back to in the further work. Mr. Old President! I'm moving on to another subject. It is important, both for the rule of law and for the general sense of law, that grades are equal in all parts of the country. Today there are examples of talented, ambitious students who have changed schools and have suddenly found it much harder to get as good grades as the old school. There are also examples of the opposite, that some students go to schools that are known to be generous in giving high grades. That's not how it's supposed to be. Grades should be equal in value, regardless of which school you went to. In the Christian Democrats' Committee motion, we highlight the importance of all schools having systematic quality work to ensure equal rating. We want to use the national tests as a benchmark. This in turn requires that the national tests are corrected externally and not by staff at the student's school who may have a self-interest in being able to show good results. Digitisation of the national tests would facilitate, and we assume that the National Agency for Education will soon get to such a national platform. The Christian Democrats therefore want to commission the Swedish National Agency for Education to develop a model for how the grades should be correlated with the results in the national tests, not at individual level but well at group level for each school. Whether it is our motion in today's debate. I request the approval of reservation 8.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-181	Mr. Old President! This is a comprehensive report. One of the most important areas in the report is the section on study and safety. Liberals want in particular to highlight the importance of crime prevention and prevention. We have seen increased health and safety problems in schools. Violence and threats are increasing in schools, not least against the staff, both teachers and principals. But bullying between students is also a problem. Even if we see that some knowledge results are going in the right direction, we could unfortunately see that the proportion of pupils experiencing bullying is increasing in the SCB's survey on how it stands with bullying among students. This applies not least in the ages of 11, 13 and 15 and both boys and girls. It's going the wrong way. Students still bully each other. There is abusive treatment, bullying and harassment. What is particularly serious is that it is still trivialized in a lot of schools. So you don't take it and think it's part of everyday life and the culture that can prevail in a particular school. We must state by all means that this is not acceptable. Liberals have presented a motion to stress the importance of continuing to work to prevent bullying. The report by the Committee on Education and Training refers to the investigation mission given only a few weeks ago in the framework of the January agreement. But there is a great focus on violence and threats to pupils or to school staff. We believe that it does not really cover what we are asking for. That is why we will be calling for the approval of reservation 6 in the report, in order to emphasise how important it is to have procedures in place. If you have order procedures, it should be crystal clear that you should act immediately when students are bullied and that it should not be trivialized. Based on the School Inspectorate's skull survey and other measurements, we also see in general that although order procedures exist, they are not always known at the school. It also emerges from the surveys that although the order practices are known, they do not always lead to consistency. If you are to protect the most vulnerable students, those who are subjected to bullying, you must have clear procedures of order. Then the adult world – student health, principal and teacher – must act directly in the smallest incident. And if this goes so far, you have to turn off or move a student to another school, even if it is against the student's or the guardian's opinion. It is the one who is being bullied who will be allowed to stay in school, not the one who bullies. In all my years as a school politician, I have not heard of a single case where anyone who is being bullied is allowed to stay. Usually it is the bully who stays, while the victim of the bullying is allowed to move to another school or even to another municipality in the worst case. We can never accept such a system.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-189	Mr. Old President! I have to admit that it seems a little strange to be standing in this Chamber today when the situation is as it is. At the same time, it becomes clear how important social functions are and that they affect people in their everyday lives. School and education play a very central role here. A week ago, my party colleague Linus Sköld and I received a group of students from the Cathedral School in Skara. It was a fantasticly committed and lively group of students who had won a prize, this year's teamwork. They were motivated by the following reasons: a good collaboration with school management and staff with trust and mutual respect. During the year, they have jointly launched an initiative to highlight and actively work on equal treatment issues at school. This is to prevent violations and discrimination and promote a safe and friendly school. ..................................................... Why am I bringing this up, Mr. Old President? It is so important to show that responsibility and influence are interrelated and that participation, mutual respect and common guidelines create security and thus also studyo. Today we are debating report UbU 11. It deals with a variety of exercises. Many of them have had a simplified treatment. I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject all motions for resolutions. For me as a social democrat, the common sense is extremely important. In a strong society, you should know that the school is there for you and your child. It is important to emphasise that all schools should be good and that knowledge and education should always be given priority. No students should have to change school because they do not get the support they need. The widespread school segregation must be broken and equivalence strengthened by more well-trained and qualified teachers throughout the country. It takes a lot of investment. For me, this will always be more important than major tax cuts and privatisations. Mr. Old President! The school has a big and important mission. The school will promote gender equality. It should shape and convey equal rights, opportunities and obligations for all people, regardless of gender. In accordance with fundamental values, school should also promote interaction between pupils, regardless of gender. Everything should be done within the framework of science and proven experience. It is positive that a number of measures have been taken in recent years to strengthen the school's core values and the staff's competence in these matters. In 2018, the Social Democratically led government decided to clarify the school's gender equality mission in the curricula for all areas of school. The corresponding proposals for changes to the curricula are available for upper secondary school, upper secondary school and adult education. They are currently being prepared within the Government Office. Mr. Old President! Last week the issue of security and study was debated. These are very important issues, and they are also affected in this report. Let me be clear that we can never accept mess and fights in school that make teachers stop and students can't concentrate. We must take a concerted approach to this for the benefit of each student and teacher. Therefore, we will continue to invest in principals, teachers' leadership, improved pupil health and more special teachers and special educators. Safety and education at school is a prerequisite for learning and development. At the same time, more than one student in three reports that the students are failing and as many as 40 per cent of the teachers that they experience a lack of clarity as to what powers they have to intervene in order to maintain security and education. Of course, it's serious. That is why, in accordance with a Social Democratic electoral promise and the January agreement, the government set up an investigation a few weeks ago, just as Roger Haddad mentioned earlier. The mission is to develop a national plan for security and study. The directives for the investigation are excellent. The investigator should take a broad approach and look at both preventive and disciplinary measures. Mr. Old President! There is much to be taken on board by the motions involved in the report, but naturally I do not have time to take up everything. Finally, however, I would like to highlight the importance of the recreation centre for our children and students. I have the privilege of knowing one of the world's best recreational educators. It is a teacher who, in different contexts, supports his fellow teachers in the classroom and motivates, stimulates and contributes to children's development by providing them with tools to find answers and form themselves by being creative and thinking differently. In addition to being in the classroom, it is also the adult person with whom children play, jump up on their knees, let themselves be scratched on their backs and get loving hugs off. It is a leisure teacher who by telling about and using the material they find through play and lust in the forest next to the school creates motifs and works of art that have never been seen. It's something new and fun every day and year. It is a leisure teacher who contributes to new knowledge of other cultures and allows children to enter a fantasy world through singing, dance and theatre. I'd say it's a multi-stakeholder. There are a lot of recreational educators who are just as amazing as the one I'm talking about. They want more colleagues, and they want the opportunity to give more children the chance to have meaningful leisure time after school as part of the overall school day. Since the Social Democraticly led government took office in 2014, efforts have been made on leisure homes. Since 2015, a state grant has been made to employ more staff. Leisure homes are part of Collaboration for the best school, but more needs to be done. In 2018, the Government appointed an investigation tasked with identifying and analysing which areas of development exist and also proposing measures to increase quality and equivalence so that the leisure home's compensatory tasks are strengthened. I very much look forward to the proposals that will enable us to continue to develop this important activity. Mr. Old President! Who, then, is this amazing recreation teacher that I spent a few minutes talking about? It's my mother, leaving her job this fall when she retires. Her passion and motivation in life is to contribute to children's happiness and development. She is not alone in this drive. It is our duty to work to ensure that everyone who works in the school is given the right conditions to be able to carry out their important task. It is at school that the basis for the future is set.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-204	Mr. Old President! Sweden is a knowledge nation. It is the result of a long tradition in which we have invested in both education and training, which is the basis for growth and prosperity in society. We Moderates want a high international quality of our higher education institutions. At the same time, we want to use resources efficiently so that both students' demand and labour market needs can be met. To better steer towards the highest quality of education and excellence in research, we Moderates want quality evaluations and a national ranking list of programmes and courses. We also want to see a new resource allocation system that rewards quality. We are concerned that Sweden's quality of education has fallen over time and also that our funding has fallen behind. Instead, we reward quantity more than quality. A question of the highest topicality today, when higher education institutions have switched to or are increasingly turning to distance learning, is something that we Moderates see a great need for, namely the development of a comprehensive digital strategy for the digitisation of higher education institutions. We want to commission higher education institutions and universities to develop a strategy on digitisation, modern IT infrastructure and online education. Work on online education, known as MOOC, needs to be strengthened both in the current situation and in similar crises. It must also be strengthened in order for Sweden to be able to compete with universities and universities in the world. Finally, Mr President-in-Office, today I would like to endorse Moderates' reservation No 5, which deals with a digitisation strategy for higher education institutions.
i-8mTyaqnSaRm2WQfDMUuCqL	Mr. Old President! I support our reservation No 1. Mr. Old President! We currently have a serious pandemic that also affects students in different ways. Courses and higher education institutions will close down their physical activities and switch to distance learning instead. At present, these are very wise decisions. We are in a serious situation, as everyone knows. This is likely to cause problems in some educations, but I think the universities will have to solve this as they go. Some students and staff will do well, others less well. I'm sure we'll have to count on that at the moment. This is where we're all being put to the test. The government has also talked about proposals that make it possible for students who, due to the circumstances, miss points still get a secure livelihood through CSN. It is a very long-awaited measure for the country's anxious students. Many of these will sleep better once this has been clubbed. I studied my higher education at a distance myself, and I think it worked out very well. I think this is gonna work out. I will briefly address some of our other proposals in the report. There were some motions about the replacement system in this block. Generally speaking, we believe that the compensation system and the government's objective, moreover, promote quantity over quality too much. That's a bit of what Kristina Axén Olin was into. The steering and resource inquiry, Strut, presented a proposal in which the government and higher education institutions would discuss themselves up to the number of places on various courses and then sign a contract. This would result in a more adequate distribution of courses at national level. Having said that, we do not believe that the requirements for entering higher education in general should be reduced. Students must, of course, have a reasonable chance of passing the courses too, without the drop-out being too many. Here we have an excellent example in teacher education, where students come in at extremely low points through the university test. We know that dark clouds pile up on the horizon in the shape of serious lack of teachers. Despite the lack of teachers, teachers who manage to get through the education must be able to do a good job with our students. It should be possible to ensure the quality of teacher training without reducing the number of study places. After all, we have a crying shortage of teachers today, and it can be even more excruciating in the future. In order to attract more students to teacher education, we in SD are convinced that we need to improve the working environment for the teaching staff rather than constantly throwing government money after the teachers who work in messy classes. Another important measure to ensure reasonable throughput and to ensure that future teachers are able to cope with their important work is that fewer teachers are admitted through the university test and that more are admitted through grades or admission tests. It is a simple but effective measure that does not have to cost very much. Mr. Old President! There are proposals both from us and from other parties to concentrate teacher training on fewer places of study. I think it is a way to test whether there are universities that fail to maintain the quality of education. According to a survey by UKÄ, there are shortcomings in half of the country's teacher training. The survey was conducted by UKÄ in 2019, and the report concluded that there were shortcomings in the degree goals and too little qualified staff. Against this background, we believe that it is time for the government to take measures to ensure the quality of our teacher training. It is basically about our students' future in a highly competitive world.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-219	Mr. Old President! We are debating the university today, but I would like to start with a huge thank you to the whole sector in view of the current situation in the country. I would like to thank all the teachers who are currently changing their courses to distance education and other forms of examination in order to be able to deal with the new situation. I would like to thank all the students involved and contribute to the smooth functioning of this transition and flexibility. Not least, I would like to thank those students in the medical professions who make themselves available to assist in the situation we have. I would also like to thank those chemical students who have now started production of hand alcohol in order to be able to contribute to the health care system, which is very lacking today. However, I would also like to thank the government for its cooperation in this situation for putting in place regulations that allow students to feel confident that the livelihood they have will continue even if the situation would be different in the future. It is a difficult time when society is being tested. The flexibility we are currently seeing is impressive and fantastic. This is something we really need to take on in the future. Mr. Old President! The report deals with sports concerning the university. Of course, we in the Center Party support all of the proposals we have put forward, but we only ask for the approval of our Amendment No 2. Higher education is an important function of society. It provides students with both education and education. It contributes to the emergence of new knowledge and innovations into society. It helps companies and the public sector to obtain the right skills to meet the challenges they face. Higher education is simply crucial to the development of society. Higher education in Sweden is basically very good. But of course it can be improved and developed. It is against this background that we have tabled our proposals from the Center Party. We want to strengthen the quality of higher education. We want to ensure that education and training meet the needs of the labour market to a greater extent, both in education and by increasing student participation. We want to create better opportunities to study and work in parallel. We want to reward higher education institutions based on quality. Over the past week, the focus has been on the crisis and challenge we are now facing. But on Monday the admission to higher education also started in the autumn semester of 2020. It closes on 15 April and is important for many students who will make one of their absolutely biggest choices in life. It is a major investment in terms of both time and resources for the individual to choose which education to attend. For the Center Party, we want to make it easier for students and students to make as well informed and balanced choices as possible. We therefore have proposals to make it easier by creating a better system for those students who are considering the courses. For example, in our neighbouring countries Denmark and Norway there are better systems, where you can learn from previous students' experiences and have the opportunity to see what the labour market start-up looks like for different educations. This would be well worth getting in place. Teacher education is a subject of constant discussion in higher education. A number of studies are currently under way to strengthen teacher training. We from the Center Party also want to ensure better teacher education by facilitating independent teacher education at a higher education institution that aims to be a leader in both education and research facilities – a Trade for Teacher Education simply. Mr. Old President! I would like to emphasise once again the work that is currently being done at higher education institutions among teachers and students and that enables educations to continue in the extraordinary time that we are currently in. The teaching institutions are important social institutions that are often accused of being rigid and inflexible. The development of the past week has given me and all the other rebuttal evidence – when it is required, the universities can actually be very flexible and make sure to change. I am very impressed with that, and it makes me incredibly proud of Swedish higher education.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-228	Mr. Age President and Fredrik Christensson! I would just like to ask for the right reservations, unfortunately, because in both of my speeches I have managed to frustrate them completely. I support the Moderates' reservation No 7 in the UbU11 and reservation No 13 in the UbU15. ( AGESPRESIDENT: It is not possible to make a request in a previous case when the club has fallen. ) Then there is reservation 13 which I would like to endorse in this debate.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-231	Mr. Old President! Today's healthcare, Sweden's development and competitiveness, is yesterday's research. Communicating knowledge is one of the most important tasks at our universities. Access to competent university teachers and researchers, a stimulating working environment and student social security are therefore important. Higher education and research must harness all the interested talents to keep Sweden competitive. It should be possible to study at college or university regardless of whether you come directly from upper secondary school or if you are a single parent of young children, and whether you are raised in an academic family or in a work home. Christian-democratic higher education policy is therefore based on knowledge, quality, choice and security. Mr. Old President! We Christian Democrats defend the autonomy of academia. It is important to think new, free and at times uncomfortable. Excellency shall be drifting. Competition for external Council funding is an important driver for Sweden to be a leading knowledge nation. At the same time, targeted resources are needed to create a safer working environment for researchers and lecturers to be able to conduct high-quality teaching and world-class research. As a researcher, I feel a great frustration about the low level of job security in academia. The strongest research glow can be extinguished by anxiety and ignorance if you will continue to be employed next year or not. Many people have to finance all or a large part of their own salary through external research grants. It is grants that are being applied for in increasingly tough competition, often run for a short period of time and that will be sufficient for one's own salary and doctoral students' salaries as well as costs for research. The effect is that a disproportionate part of working time is spent on applying for research funding instead of actually conducting research and teaching. In the absence of appropriations for a period of time, dismissal from permanent employment is not unusual on the grounds of lack of employment. It is therefore important to create a more appropriate resource allocation system within the higher education institutions. We are now waiting for the government to proceed with the Steering and Resource Investigation, Struten, but we Christian Democrats believe that it should be considered to give a larger funding allocation directly to the higher education institutions. However, it is a requirement that a share of the basic grant is used to ensure clear career paths with merit positions that take into account research and teaching qualifications and mobility. I would therefore like, Mr President-in-Office, to support the Christian Democrats' reservation 7 in paragraph 2. But there are other ways to strengthen employment security at our universities. Researchers at universities and higher education institutions have deep knowledge of the subject. Therefore, after completing basic educational education, they could remedy the acute shortage of teachers in upper secondary school. There are now several obstacles for those who want to keep research in parallel with a job as a secondary school teacher. In accordance with the Higher Education Act and the Higher Education Ordinance, a clinically active researcher at a university or higher education institution can at the same time maintain a position as a specialist doctor or psychologist in health care. It's called a combination job. However, the state pension agreement only allows for a combination employment if the service is tied to clinical tasks. Researchers who are not clinicians, therefore, do not have this opportunity. If, on the other hand, combined positions also include services that are not strictly related to clinical tasks, researchers might be able to work part-time as secondary school teachers. It would strengthen the link between upper secondary education, higher education and research. More PhDs could stay within academia and conduct strategically important research part-time, without concern about the risk of being made redundant for a period of fewer awarded research grants. We Christian Democrats believe this would be an investment for Sweden as a nation of knowledge.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-243	Madam President, I would like Corona is now spreading concern over Europe, the world and Sweden. Human suffering is the greatest and the worst. There are thousands of deaths in Italy alone. And more people will lose their lives – also here at home in Sweden. At the same time, large parts of the world have closed. The global economy has drifted, and many are worried about companies that can fail and employees who lose their jobs. It goes without saying to me that the Government and the Riksdag are now working closely and confidently together. We talk to each other. We trust each other. We have different roles but a common goal. That attitude will guide me and my party in everything we do against the ravages of the virus – including, of course, in this House. This is also a Swedish tradition in times of crisis. We work together to solve problems. Let's put political contention aside. I am convinced that the Social Democrats had offered the same support to a bourgeois government. The Moderates are therefore available to cooperate in the Riksdag and the Government to take Sweden through the crisis. It's a force for our country. But we have more in common. Both Stefan Löfven and I are now listening carefully to our local representatives, who are fighting hard in the country's municipalities and regions. I am deeply impressed by all the women and men who make sure that municipalities and regions are now standing on their feet 24 hours a day. Government and parliament thus cooperate. Even the national and local need to go more hand in hand. The Government has given the National Board of Health and Welfare a clearer mandate to coordinate and assist all regions – that is very good. My question is: what other needs does the Prime Minister see today when it comes to strengthening cooperation between us in the state and those who bear the difficult local responsibility?
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-249	Madam President, I would like I very much appreciate the dialogue we have between the parties at this difficult moment. It's a trial for the whole country. I assume, then, that the people demand that we demonstrate our ability to act. We must make the decisions to be made. But it is also a question of providing security and of providing stability. This is particularly true of cooperation between the parties in the Riksdag. I can already say here and now that I very much appreciate the cooperation that our ministers have with the respective committees to deal with the issues that need to be dealt with as quickly as ever. I really appreciate that. Leadership must be developed at many different levels. It's us as party leaders. It's government. They're MPs. They're government agencies. They're government managers. There is constant dialogue with the authorities. What resources do they need? And how will they now best show leadership to also contribute to stability and security? Not least the county administrative boards have a very important task. I will have a conversation with all county governors about how county boards can support not least the municipalities and, of course, the regions. Above all, I think it is municipalities that will need support in terms of how we should ensure that home care works as well as possible, but of course also as safely as possible. We have some basic tasks: we will make sure that we limit the infection as much as possible. We will ensure that resources are available in health care and health care. We will ensure that we minimise the impact on social activities. We will ensure that we minimise consequences for both citizens and businesses. With as much information as possible, we will try to allay our concerns. And not least, we should make the right decision at the right time. That is the strategy that the government is following, and we would like to do so in good cooperation.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-255	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I share the analysis. You can go one step deeper. The National Board of Health and Welfare has attended the two party leaders' meetings that the Prime Minister has invited – it has been very good. They have now been given an extended mandate to do things nationally as well. If I understand it correctly, there is still a risk that we cannot have staff in exactly the right place around the country. Are there possibilities to supplement the task of the National Board of Health and Welfare, so that on the human front too they can have greater powers to look after the whole kingdom?
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-257	Madam President, I would like The National Board of Health and Welfare normally has a coordinating function to ensure that emergency medical preparedness is in place, and it is constantly being followed up. Now the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has been given an extended mandate to also coordinate when it comes to equipment, for example. They should be a central national purchaser, but they should also coordinate so that we get the equipment where it is most needed. The National Board of Health and Welfare does not have a mandate to transfer staff between regions, but it is the decision of the regions. The assessment by the National Board of Health and Welfare, in their coordinating role, is that there is preparedness between the regions. If necessary, redistribute resources so that those who need them most also get them. We are, of course, following this extremely closely, because it must work.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-260	Madam President, I would like We're all working very hard right now, especially the government. I would like to start by thanking the Prime Minister in particular for taking the time to come here today to answer our questions. I assume that the government has available estimates and forecasts as to how the spread of the disease will continue in our country. I then focus on our country, Sweden, and wonder: How many calculate the government will suffer from the corona infection? And how many estimate the government will die as a result of such infection?
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-262	Madam President, I would like When we look at what will have to be done, it is clear that we are also thinking about the next step and the next step. However, those responsible for assessing the spread of the infection and possible deaths are the expert authorities. There are different scenarios. It looks different in the outside world. The number of deaths per hundred thousand or so varies – quite substantially indeed. I would therefore like to leave this to the expert authorities. On the other hand, we will ensure that those who need health care receive health care. One assessment is that it is about 10% who will need healthcare – it is not the same as intensive care. That is why we must ensure that the resources are out there. For this reason, we decided to notify regions and municipalities that current accounts are now in force. This must never be caught up in money and financial resources. The additional costs incurred by the regions in this regard are borne by the State. This must never be a bottleneck. There is also ongoing planning for how to scale up staff. For example, in Sunday's Agenda, we heard the Chief Medical Officer in the Stockholm region tell us how a certain number of intensive care places today can switch up fairly quickly with an additional 50 percent and in a little time even more. That coordination is ongoing so that we know there will be medical resources. That's what matters. However, we must always take altitude because this is a virus that has not existed before. That is why it is extremely uncertain. This means that no one can say with determination that this many will suffer and this many need medical care. We're gonna make sure we take altitude because it's gonna get worse than it is.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-269	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. Could the Prime Minister consider answering this type of question with clarity and clarity? I believe that many are calling for such leadership right now. Therefore, if the Prime Minister would like to consider doing so now or in the future, it would be appreciated by many at this difficult time.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-271	Madam President, I would like Again, no one can say with determination, since this is a new virus. Different scenarios can be made, and of course we do – what could be needed in the future? That is why we are reviewing and now the National Board of Health and Welfare is commissioning intensive care to coordinate it so that it is there the day it is needed. The government is prepared to make decisions every day and wants to do so on the basis of what the expert authorities and deep knowledge say. We should also remember that this is a moving matter. The situation can change from today to tomorrow, and it can happen quickly. Then we must be prepared, and that is why we are constantly having dialogue with the expertise. That is what we should make our decisions on.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-275	Madam President, I would like Sweden is in a very serious and strained situation. The effects of the pandemic hit our entire society hard and place great demands on all of us to act with reason and action to reduce the spread of infection and at the same time ensure that important functions of society have the best possible conditions to carry out their mission. This is of paramount importance for human health and also for welfare, the economy, jobs and Sweden's companies. In this work, Madam President, I feel that there is a broad political consensus. It is in many ways positive to see that a country's political leadership in times of crisis and concern is able to see what is important for the good of the country and not for the good of each party. I feel that, as representatives of all parties in Parliament, we are constantly receiving and receiving the necessary and relevant information about the situation from the government and that all parties have an insight into how the work is progressing. It is extremely important that we manage to maintain a broad consensus on these issues also forward. It is in times of crisis that political leadership is being seriously tested. For Sweden and the rest of the world, that time is here and now. My hope is that the political leadership in Sweden is based on responsibility, ability to act and constructive consensus also forward. Does the Prime Minister share that hope?
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-279	Madam President, I would like I can say yes right away. I can say that we are there with the very dialogue that we need in order to be able to speak clearly to our people and to say that there is broad cross-party cooperation here. Now, party political dividing lines have to be set aside for a while to focus on just that. That is what gives us the power to act, that is when we can make decisions and that is when we can inform the public that this is now the case: this is what we are doing to limit the infection, to ensure that health care has the resources and to limit the consequences for both citizens and businesses and so on. That is how we stand in this strategy and in the questions that people want answers to. I said earlier that I appreciate our cooperation very much. We have our party leaders' meetings, and I also feel that the ministers are working very well with the committees, which means that we are being treated quickly so that we can act quickly. We have a good basis, we listen to the expertise and when we make decisions we do it quickly and decisively. That's exactly how it's supposed to happen. It must also work between politics and the authorities. That is why we have a continuous dialogue, and I know that the authorities also come to Parliament to report on their activities and their work. In his question, Ulf Kristersson mentioned that the national, regional and local must be properly connected so that one knows what the other does and that nothing falls between the chairs. From a national point of view, we shall clearly send the message to the local and regional level, which will have to stand there in the day-to-day work, that you have the resources. We will ensure that you have both financial and human resources, as well as the legal support that is needed to do the best possible. We stick together in Sweden. That's how Sweden works.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-285	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. Me and the Center Party will continue to contribute to our country meeting and dealing with the very difficult situation that we are now in in the best possible way. I also hope that the broad political consensus that we now see can last even in the times when we adapt society in order to return to normal. We will learn lessons from this so that we can equip Sweden even better to increase our preparedness for upcoming difficult situations. Because this is neither the first nor the last time that this is going to happen.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-287	Madam President, I would like This is a very important message from Anders W Jonsson. We must also prepare the population for a long time. I have previously called it a marathon; it is at least a long-distance race. This is not going to go away in two weeks and not in four weeks, but it is about a long time that we must now endure and share with the people the decisions and communication that are needed to ensure as much security and stability as possible. This is an extremely special situation. It will not be as usual, and that is exactly what we have to change to: this is something other than the ordinary everyday lunken. Eventually, of course, we should see what we are going to do in the next phase, once this is over. It may also be that we get a slowdown in the spread of the infection but that it then takes off again. That is why we must be so ready for this to take time.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-290	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister Stefan Löfven! The spread of infection quickly puts our society in a deep crisis. It is a crisis for those affected by the infection and ill health. It is also a very rapidly developing economic crisis that affects people in their everyday lives. The main objective of the Left Party in this situation is to work closely with the government so that we can implement a strong and at the same time calm policy with measures that are needed. We appreciate the close dialogue we have with the government, and we look forward to it continuing throughout this process. It is time to focus on what is important to our country. It's time to put some other things aside. We welcome the supplementary amending budget that has been put on the table today by Parliament, and we support the proposals that are there. It will be very helpful for many companies in Sweden to survive this crisis. At the same time, a great many people are now leaving their jobs. Thousands of people every day in Sweden are now told that they no longer have a job to go to, that they no longer have a livelihood. The first to go are often those who have precarious jobs, who work for hours, who do not have an open-ended job. Many small businesses are left powerless to see their life's work merge in front of their eyes and their livelihoods cease. These people deserve more support. They're going to need financial help. The Left Party has proposed that the regulations of the unemployment fund be amended and that the so-called working conditions be halved. This would mean that thousands of people who today do not have the right to receive unemployment benefit would be able to obtain basic financial security. We also believe that those outside the unemployment fund need special support, and we will come back with proposals on this. I wonder if Prime Minister Löfven is prepared to review the possibility of changing the working conditions of the unemployment fund.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-297	Madam President, I would like I think Jonas Sjöstedt is doing an absolutely correct analysis. You can divide the question into different parts. One is to deal with the infection, and another is the economic consequences. We're already seeing them. This is a dramatic increase in notice, and that is why we are pleased that we have been able to present early on what can make it easier for companies not to engage in redundancies. Short-term lay-off was an important message for many companies, as was the liquidity support. Companies will be free of sickness pay for the first period, and we have also removed the withdrawal, which means that people can be at home instead of going to work because they cannot afford to be at home. That kind of information is extremely important. We will continue to look at what more needs to be done. Now we have quickly received general support for businesses and for individuals. We will also have to do more for different industries. We see, for example, that the cultural sector is suffering tremendously and is having a very difficult time. This also applies to the tourism industry and others. It is also quite right that some people have less protection, not least because of precarious employment relationships. We are reviewing several proposals so that they too are protected. Those who are the toughest in a daily situation in a situation where there is no crisis are in danger of getting even worse when there is this kind of crisis. Yes, we are looking over various possibilities so that they too will be protected. By today we have decided to seek authorisation from the Riksdag so that parents who need to be at home to care for their children can do so even when the children are not actually ill. If we need to close the schools, there should also be financial protection.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-302	Madam President, I would like I thank Prime Minister Löfven for his answer. I welcome all the measures taken by the government. I think they are necessary, and I think they save many jobs and many companies in Sweden that would otherwise have failed in this situation. I also welcome the announcement that we are looking at various forms of support, for example for cultural life and the tourism industry. They will certainly be needed in the coming time. I also think it is a positive message that the Prime Minister sees the need for us to do something for those who are now rapidly losing their livelihood, perhaps thinking about how to pay the bills next month's shift. The Left Party is, of course, prepared to make proposals and discuss ideas and opportunities. A good idea is to strengthen the unemployment fund and allow the insurance systems that exist to reach more people. I hope the government is considering that possibility.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-306	Madam President, I would like I can only agree that we must protect those who are the toughest and the worst hit where security systems do not turn out to cover everyone. Let us look broadly and of course not exclude the unemployment fund, but there may be more things that need to be done to protect as many people as possible as well as possible. This is an important message in society. Otherwise, we will increase the anxiety, and then we may increase the panic in society. We are not going to do that, but we are going to make sure that we create as much stability and security as we can.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-309	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister for the good climate of dialogue and cooperation that prevails during this for our country, for our world, for this dramatic situation. We may disagree on a lot, but not on the fact that the Swedish government and parliament must now gather together to find the best possible way forward. The Christian Democrats have put forward a number of proposals, and we are very grateful that the government has listened and acted on some of them. We welcome the fact that SKR, Sweden's Municipalities and Regions, takes a national responsibility to improve 1177 and that the National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with ensuring that the availability of protective equipment to healthcare professionals is ensured throughout the country. At the same time, I am concerned about the burden on health care organisations. I am concerned about the country's patients and the health professionals, who are currently pulling a huge load for all of us. We have long been pushing for the state to take over responsibility for health care from the regions. The time for reorganisation is not now, but we must ensure that there is clarity in who has the ultimate responsibility to look at the whole of care. Yesterday's announcement that the National Board of Health and Welfare is given a daily inventory of the burden on health care is welcome and something that we have been proposing for some time now. However, we have also proposed that the National Board of Health and Welfare be given a mandate to allocate health care resources among the regions. If one region has excess capacity on ventilators while another region lacks one, one body must have a mandate to ensure that the ventilators end up right. My questions to the Prime Minister are therefore: is it possible to wait for such a decision? When can we expect such a decision?
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-314	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to acknowledge the thanks of the government in terms of dialogue and cooperation. I appreciate it very much. It is obvious that in such a situation one should not believe that a group is sitting on all knowledge, but here we are helping each other. That is why we are grateful for proposals that we can prepare and see what we can do about them. More needs to be done for 1177. It is clear that even more capacity is needed there. There are ongoing discussions with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions on this issue. It is clear that the burden on health care is a very important issue. That's why we're taking heights because more people are going to need care and more people are going to need intensive care. That is why we need to look forward and what can be the next step. For this reason, the National Board of Health and Welfare was commissioned to be a national purchaser of medical equipment, protective equipment and the like. There is a national procurement here, and it is already in progress. We also know now that some Swedish companies are changing their production in order to produce more protective equipment. That's nice, too. The equipment will be ultimately distributed by the National Board of Health and Welfare. They are in constant contact with the regions, and they believe that cooperation and dialogue exist within the regions so that redistribution can take place there and also between the regions. Equipment is one thing. On the other hand, it is the responsibility of the regions to work with staff. In answer to a previous question, I say again that the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's view is that this dialogue is so good between the regions in Sweden that there is openness and readiness to distribute what the regions are to decide on.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-321	Madam President, I would like I have every respect that the work is difficult and complicated, but health care is a central command height in the fight against covid-19. Don't let it fall. Therefore, these messages are welcome. I think that many lessons can be drawn from how the countries of the European Union have acted. They say they are willing to cooperate, they try to cooperate in some parts, but when it comes to the situation, there is a great risk that everyone with individual lines also within the country, 21 individual lines, will choose to make decisions for themselves. What would it do to give the National Board of Health and Welfare a mandate to also be the individual body that can move health care resources to where patients and citizens most need them? I appeal to the Prime Minister to give us a national operational medical general.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-324	Madam President, I would like First of all, few decisions are ruled out by the government. We should not rule out that we can end up in very difficult situations. The regions and the National Board of Health and Welfare, which have the coordinating function, say that this dialogue exists. The National Board of Health and Welfare has been given a larger mandate to distribute equipment. They also say that the decisions taken by the regions work so that they are prepared to transfer resources from one region to another if necessary. We see that the situation in the country is different depending on where you live. Should there be a tough situation where we see that now there is a lot of strain in the whole country, everywhere, we are not alien to reconsider and make new decisions. We have to do that almost every day, every week, every month so that we know it works, because it will work. Impact of the Coronandemin on culture, the media and sport
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-327	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister for the efforts he is making during this very difficult time. Liberals will continue to be a constructive party here in Parliament, and I welcome the fact that other parties are too. After all, we Members of Parliament are closely following developments, both on a local level where we come from and in the respective areas that we work with here in the Riksdag. Of course, as chairman of the Committee on Culture, I see what is happening in this area in particular. I see concerts cancelled. I see plays that are repeated but never meet an audience. I see empty theaters and empty museums. I see sports fields where the cheers have stopped. I see newspapers whose advertising revenue is now falling steeply. This at a time when culture is needed more than ever – to reflect our time, to help us understand, to challenge the idea and to sometimes make us forget everyday life for a while. My question is therefore how the Prime Minister views the long-term consequences of the very serious economic crisis that Swedish cultural life, the Swedish media and Swedish sport are currently in.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-332	Madam President, I would like Of course, the situation with this new virus will also have a major impact on the cultural sector and cultural life, just as it does for society as a whole. It is obvious that it hits hard when the audience suddenly just doesn't come, and it goes fast. The revenue is falling very dramatically. This affects not least smaller operators. Cultural life in general will be affected. We are already seeing this with bankruptcies, redundancies and premonitions. We see that many cultural creators disappear from one day to another. We have dealt with some of this – those who have businesses can benefit from the decisions already taken. But we will have to do more. We do not all meet with the general decisions, so we will have to do more. For me, it is important that the cultural sector remains in place. We will have an impact, but we want to make the most of it.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-336	Madam President, I would like I thank you for your answer and I think it is good that the Prime Minister sees the seriousness of this for the cultural sector but also for the media sector, where advertising revenue is now falling steeply and many newspapers that are already in trouble have an even tougher everyday life. How we deal with an acute crisis affects Sweden in the long term, regardless of the area. My view is that an unwise policy in this area will suffer permanently. Society gets a little less nuanced, a little less colorful, a little less curious and a little less formed, and it will do great damage to Sweden. I believe that the Prime Minister will be able to see further efforts in this area. Is that clear?
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-339	Madam President, I would like Yeah, that's right. Although we have been able to help some with the decisions made so far in terms of liquidity supply, short-term lay-offs and so on, it does not hit everyone. It meets far from everyone in the cultural sector. Often the players are smaller, perhaps alone, and for them there are other things that need to be done. What exactly is to be done for us is a good dialogue on, including with the various trade unions and cooperation organisations in the cultural sector.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-342	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Prime Minister about the consequences of the Corona crisis for many Swedish jobs and companies. There are many examples of it hitting hard on restaurants, hotels and travel companies. I was going to highlight an example. It is a company located just outside Kristianstad, a hotel and restaurant facility called Bodelsson by the Sea. They have lost bookings of 132 000 SEK in just a few days, they now report. The owners have their home in the same building, so if it wants to be really bad, they lose both work and business and even their home. They may be forced to walk from house and home. The crisis has, of course, major consequences for many employees and companies, and it is extremely important that Swedish companies and employees are not left in the lurch because of this crisis. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore what further measures the Government intends to take for companies and employees now affected by the crisis. How do we allay the anxiety that people feel?
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-346	Madam President, I would like We do not leave companies and employees in the lurch. That is our message. That is why we had to make decisions very quickly and start the day by dealing with the liquidity situation so that we do not fall on it because there is such a dramatic decline. I am pleased that we were able to make decisions about and also implement the short-term lay-off so quickly. It will help many companies. We already have many agreements on that basis, and the message from those who have now concluded agreements is that this saves tens of thousands of jobs. It's important in itself. What we have also done in terms of liquidity enhancement and removing the cost of sick pay from companies also makes it easier. All sectors will have their specific problems, and the pace of progress varies in different sectors. We need to see this industry for industry, and that is why we are in this dialogue with the respective sector and industry – in order for us to know that we are doing the right thing.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-352	Madam President, I would like The pandemic is serious and exposes our society and the world around us to a serious crisis. It really tests people, businesses and organisations and society's economy. We in Sweden have lived in safe conditions for a long time. It is possible that we Swedes feel a little newly awakened when crises come, but now the crisis consciousness manifests by people buying home goods that they may need if they get sick or have to stay at home. It is basically very good that people take their own responsibility and also help each other. I think that the crisis awareness we now see is a great asset, as we in Sweden have said that we want to strengthen civil defence. How does the Prime Minister view our civil defence and preparedness?
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-355	Madam President, I would like People are now making invaluable efforts around our society. We see a strong society that we need. Maybe that's the most important thing we have for resilience. That is why we need to strengthen civil defence so that total defence is strengthened. We identified it in the 2017 National Security Strategy and have moved on to strengthen civil defence. There is also broad political agreement on the need for this, for unfortunately the civil defence was dismantled for a long time. Independently of government – it is not a party policy issue – it has been so for a long time. The reconstruction has begun, and the Swedish Civil Protection Agency has a special role to play in this. We will add more resources for civil defence, and we will have to rebuild a strong civil defence for a long time. In this moment, I think everyone sees that need.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-359	Madam President, I would like As the party and group leaders' questions here show, there is a clear picture that we in Sweden are now standing together. It's important. In distress, the friend is also tested. As Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I can inform you that Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde has kept us informed about how we are trying to safeguard cooperation and cooperation between the Nordic countries and the Baltic countries. At the same time, we are seeing severe pressures. The trade shows great inertia. Goods get stuck at the border. We are also all subjected to a state criticism and a disinformation campaign in which there are even countries that question the free debate that is taking place in the Nordic and Baltic countries. It is therefore important that we protect the special Nordic-Baltic relationship. Once things will hopefully return to normality or at least become more normal. How do we maintain and protect until the special and very special relationship that exists between the Nordic and Baltic countries?
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-363	Madam President, I would like I fully share the view that it is the Nordic countries and the Baltic countries that we have good cooperation with, not least when we meet in the run-up to EU meetings. In fact, sometimes Ireland and the Netherlands also want to join us, and we are happy to invite you to do so. All ministers have regular contact and dialogue with their counterparts when needed, as I have with my counterparts to keep each other informed. Now it has turned out that we have made some different decisions. However, there is no dramatic difference in the assessments, and it may also be that the countries are in a slightly different state. However, I share the view that what we are doing now also has significance for the future. That is why I would like to broaden the perspective a little to include the European Union. There we have concerns about the lack of coordination. We must correct this so that, when we come out of it at some point, we have not destroyed that community but have made sure to strengthen it.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-366	Madam President, I would like We have been able to follow news reports on how criminal fraudsters target the country's elderly during the Corona crisis. It can be anything from trying to get into older people's homes and claiming to be a health care professional to contact the elderly and claiming that they are corona infected and should follow instructions to receive care. At a time when society should be united, there are people who exploit the chaos to enrich themselves or just destroy. In Sweden, penalties are determined based on how reprehensible an act is considered to be and how seriously society views the act. Crimes that are committed during crises and that sabotage society more than usual should be considered worse than if they were committed under normal conditions. There is therefore reason to wonder whether those who take advantage of the crisis are facing the consequences they actually deserve. My question to the Prime Minister is whether the government is willing to investigate a specific penalty that takes this into account.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-369	Madam President, I would like I fully share the anger and disappointment of people who are taking advantage of this situation for fraud against older people. Firstly, we must inform very well about this and, secondly, ensure that the police, which are an important part of crisis management and also take steps to be able to function as well as possible, can act in such a situation. Whether or not to review penalties is not a priority right now, but right now it is a matter of limiting the spread of infection, ensuring that health care is given resources, ensuring that the consequences are limited for people and so on. Then I do not rule out such a review a little later.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-372	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister and also the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the work they have done against the Corona virus. Very many Swedes, about 600 000, live and live abroad today. Tens of thousands of Swedes are also travelling abroad. Many of these can get home with their travel company or in other ways even if the situation is difficult. However, others are trapped in different countries due to the fact that travel bans have been issued for both entry and exit – in this case it applies to exits from the countries in question. Some Swedes are even forced to sit in a forced quarantine following decisions by the authorities of other countries. Worst is it for the about 175 Swedes who are in prison somewhere outside the Nordic region.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-375	Madam President, I would like The picture described is exactly what we have on the table and working with. As described by Håkan Svenneling, the travel companies are already making efforts to bring people home. In addition, all embassies are alerted and should have a very strict watch on what is happening in the country and what is needed for consular support and assistance. We also have a discussion with the Nordic countries. In situations where this cannot in any way be resolved by the individual or otherwise, we must be prepared to help each other to resolve it. It feels very good that we in the Nordic countries can have this cooperation. We are currently in the process of such a case, as I know, in which we are working together precisely to resolve the situation of our citizens in other countries.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-377	Madam President and the Prime Minister. First, as Vice-Chairman of the Education Committee, I would like to express my thanks to the Prime Minister and Government Minister, who have worked closely with us on the situation we are in. I hope that this afternoon we will take the decision to give the government the opportunity to take a national decision to close schools in extraordinary situations. Unlike upper secondary and higher education, this is a large proportion of the population – 1 million pupils in comprehensive school and half a million children in preschool. There are scenarios where in an emergency we may be very close to having to make a decision to close in the near future. I am keen that we from the Riksdag are involved and able to take part in the information, but I would also like to ask the Prime Minister what readiness you have and how you are currently working towards the school leaders so that they can handle such a situation as best they can.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-380	Madam President, I would like I can first of all note that the responsible Minister, Anna Ekström, also bears witness to a very good cooperation with the committee. It's extremely valuable. There is no question of such a general closure. However, we are already seeing that pathogens at some point have decided to close schools. So that possibility already exists, and that is how we want to behave: it is for reasons of disease protection that we should do this. According to the expert authority, we are not yet there. However, we still need to prepare for this, and that is why we are asking for this opportunity in that case. Then, of course, the principals must have the best possible support to deal with such a situation. However, it is also the case that we get a lot of parents who can no longer go to work. This is one reason why we should be careful with such a measure. It needs to be analysed extremely carefully, because there are many socially important functions that would then be affected.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-385	Madam President, I would like The food sector has a social role to play, and it is important that food security works. All farmers, food companies that process raw materials, grocery stores and everyone else in the food chain are helping us to get good food on our tables. But right now we are in a whole new situation. In the concern people have about the risk of contracting the coronavirus, many people are preventively bunkering food. Many shelves are gaping empty in the shops.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-388	Madam President, I would like It is, of course, part of the strategy that assumes, for example, that we must alleviate the consequences for citizens and others. It includes food, because it is clear that this is absolutely crucial for people. Responsible Minister of State, Minister of Rural Affairs Jennie Nilsson, has met actors from all over the food chain, from primary production to grocery trade. They say very clearly that there is no shortage of food in Sweden. The flow continues to work, and we basically have a good food supply. This situation has not affected this. Having said that, we are still following this closely; we must see if we are going to have such a shortage. But we do not, and I would urge people to remain calm. There is no need to panic-buckle stocks of food. However, you should have what the authorities recommend, but it is something quite different.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-391	Madam President, I would like We will take care of our elderly and weak in this crisis, but we will also work for our children to build Sweden strong again. The regional and municipal airports are now closing down the route one by one. My nice and well-kept airport in Trollhättan is doing it now on Monday. Regional airports are important for the labour market but also for total defence. Fire and ambulance flights and defence flights must be able to operate all over Sweden. Regional airports must be sustainable during the crisis.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-394	Madam President, I would like As far as the last question is concerned, I think the discussion is already under way. I am not entirely sure, but I think I have heard that there is a discussion going on. That is quite right: we see that the whole transport sector, not least aviation, is being hit extremely hard, and it is moving fast. Passenger transport, taxi movements and ferry services are affected. The responsible minister – the Minister for Infrastructure – has a discussion with the industry and the sector about what might be needed for the different parts. It also looks a little different in the transport sector. Again: the government does not start by excluding measures, but it is better to start looking at what may need to be done and to do so in dialogue with the sector so that we know we are meeting the right ones. One thing we are following closely is to have a dialogue with those who are actually concerned. Then we know it's right. We're not going to start by excluding anything. We are fully aware of the importance of airports.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-398	Madam President, I would like Only last Saturday, Prime Minister Mikael Damberg said that it is not appropriate for Sweden to close its border. However, as with so many other things for the government in recent times, it quickly had to change, and when the EU decided on a ban on entry into the Union on Tuesday, Sweden followed. However, the entry ban does not concern asylum immigration, which is meant to continue as usual. Yesterday, the day after the ban was proclaimed, 79 people applied for asylum in Sweden. Among them was the largest group of citizens in the hard-pressed country of Iran. In this connection, I would like to ask the Prime Minister: is he considering limiting asylum immigration to Sweden in the future in connection with Corona?
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-400	Madam President, I would like In fact, when it comes to closing the border, we did not follow it, but we are part of the decision. Each nation must decide on this. It's about the outer border. In fact, the whole of the EEA area is covered, to ensure that it has better surveillance and also to make it work better throughout the EEA, because we have too much problems with that. So it was a way of dealing with this. This includes derogations that are made for citizens who may live in a third country and who wish to enter or for family members or whatever it may be and other exceptions. All EU countries stand together for the right to seek asylum. It is still there, and that is what applies.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-402	Madam President, I would like In these coronatimes, many physical work meetings are replaced by digital ones. This also applies to important health care interventions. The government has announced 650 million over three years for broadband expansion in rural areas. 136 million will be announced this year. Only four regions will be able to benefit from this money this year. Region Jämtland Härjedalen is not part of these four regions, and the county is different from other sparsely populated areas by people living scattered throughout the region and that commercial operators are often uninterested in building broadband without community support. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency believes that 22 billion are needed to reach the government's broadband target and that 650 million over three years is not enough.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-406	Madam President, I would like It is precisely the expansion of broadband that is an important part of ensuring that the whole country can operate and, as I say, not only survive but also grow and develop. That is why support for broadband has been increased. Now it turns out that some of the operators have not delivered what they would. It has taken too long, and therefore higher requirements will now be imposed when aid is granted for delivery within a certain period of time. That's how we have to move on. I cannot anticipate the budgetary procedure. This will be included in the forthcoming budget proposal, but I will not anticipate it. We intend to stand up for the goals set. This will be crucial for the development of different parts of the country. You should have the possibility of broadband and good connectivity.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-411	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister and Government, for the efforts at this difficult time! The Corona virus and the measures to prevent its spread hit Sweden's workers hard. Many are now being given notice of dismissal, and others will have to go down in wages. Especially hard hit all with insecure employment and freelancers. Many of them may be without livelihood soon. My question to the Prime Minister is: what is the government doing to support those who have precarious employment in this difficult situation? Does the government see the need for specific measures for this group? Finally, does the Prime Minister, in solidarity with Sweden's employees, want to reduce the fees paid by the ministers and members of parliament to a basic monthly amount and allow the surplus to go to efforts to help those in particular need of support as a result of the Corona outbreak?
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-414	Madam President, I would like That's absolutely right. It is a tough time for many wage earners. That is why we want to act as quickly as possible in order to be able to give as positive a response as possible to many employees. I am therefore pleased when I hear the reports of agreements that are concluded in order to implement the short-term lay-offs. It is said that we are saving tens of thousands of jobs through this, and that is a good thing. As I said to Jonas Sjöstedt, not everyone has the same security system, not least because different forms of employment apply. Then we must think of those who are in the most difficult situation, even when it is a normal situation. They risk getting even worse in this type of crisis. We are therefore looking at how, for example, we can broaden different types of support schemes so that they benefit these people.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-416	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for coming here to answer our questions at the time we are now in. Many companies are grateful to receive the support package that the government will decide on. But there is one group that is still a little worried, and it is they who have family businesses or one-man businesses. An important part of the business support package is short-term lay-offs. I sit on the Transport Committee, and there are many companies in the transport sector that operate as small family businesses or one-man companies. They are exempt from the Short-term Work Act. My question to the Prime Minister is this: is the government prepared to change the derogation so that even the smallest companies can benefit from the aid?
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-420	Madam President, I would like As I said earlier, we only introduced general support because they needed to be put in place quickly. Then we can save tens of thousands of jobs. In addition, we must look at sector by sector at what more needs to be done, because it is different in business and look at the groups that are not hit by protection today and what more needs to be done for them. This work is ongoing so that everyone can get decent protection during this tough time. This will require a review of the regulatory framework and a readiness so that we can temporarily change the regulatory framework to deal with the situation. This review is therefore ongoing. I cannot give you detailed information about what it may be, but many people are affected if we are not prepared to do so.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-422	Madam President, I would like Like what my colleague, Fredrik Christensson, previously did, I would like to address all students and teachers at higher education institutions and universities around Sweden. You are truly absolutely fantastic who are working on but in a different way in the extraordinary circumstances that we are in right now. I also want to say something to you who are a student on a programme and don't know what happens with internships and with teachers who are not used to handling distance learning on digital platforms. It's difficult and uncertain right now. But our society has shown that we are coping with great pressures, and we will be able to cope with this too. However, we will need to arm ourselves with both patience and flexibility for the coming months. Madam President, I would like Work on the research bill continues during the spring, where the Liberals participate in discussions with the government on the design of future proposals. Sweden should remain a strong, and not only strong, but one of the most successful nations in research, development and innovation. I would like to say a few words in general, and this is mainly about the Liberals' view of quality. We want to further strengthen quality throughout the entire education chain, from youth school to college and research. Higher education or courses that do not pass the quality standards cannot continue. We owe it to today's and tomorrow's students that the courses they choose to study are high-quality and well equipped for the labour market. Madam President, I would like I call for the Liberals' reservation 21, which relates to increased research opportunities for teachers' students. We will stubbornly continue to call the teaching profession Sweden's most important profession. But then there is also a need for increased research opportunities for teacher students. The teaching profession is not a static profession, but it also needs to be developed. The resources for this are currently at a very low level and would need to be increased in the future. Another part of teacher training, and with the teaching profession, which needs to be developed more, is internationalisation. This is an aspect that we often and gladly talk about and investigate in general terms. But the fact is that teacher education is the education in Sweden that has the lowest proportion of international contacts, students and exchanges. Teacher training should be encouraged to increase internationalisation. Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to extend warm thanks to teachers and students at Sweden's higher education institutions and universities.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-430	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to start by thanking the sector for the very good work we are seeing at the moment in terms of change. Sweden is in a special situation, and that of course also affects this debate and perhaps also the desire to debate things that may seem a bit petty in this context, which of course they are not. But today there are other things that come first. I am going to focus on a few things that are particularly important to us Social Democrats. It is about education as a tool for meeting the societal challenges we face but also as a tool for strengthening people's freedom. Education can be so much. But right now we are focusing on higher education. As a social democrat, I am pleased and proud that my party has been a driving force and an important part of the expansion of higher education and also enabled for greater freedom and new life chances for so many more. But we still have a lot to do. The recruitment to higher education is still high. Those who from their homes have the tradition of continuing to study, and thus know how to do it, go to higher education. Those who do not know do not even seek, and least of all representation we see among men with working-class backgrounds. That's not good enough. Wider recruitment will therefore always be one of my most important issues to pursue. I, who myself was the first in my family to take an academic degree, also know that it is quite easy to learn the codes. It's not that hard once you've started. And you actually have something important to add when you come from a underrepresented group. It is therefore always worth fighting for wider recruitment. Today we talk a lot about digital meetings and tools. I have taken both of my degrees via distance training, and I feel: Yes, something is finally happening, even if it happens in a crisis situation. I've been going on about this for so many years. It is so important that you do not have to move to participate in higher education. Because there is a great risk that you will not come back home where you lived. Me and a lot of people with me are proof that you can study remotely and stay where you live. It is important if the whole of Sweden is to live. This is particularly important for our professional training courses, such as teachers, nurses and others. We will have a great need for welfare professions with a higher level of education throughout the country. Therefore, education must also be accompanied and offered in such a way that people can live and live throughout the country. That's exactly what we see they're doing right now. But we're not just going to train for work. Education also increases the level of education in our society and thus strengthens democracy, which we must defend every day. Formation has its own value for me as an individual to understand myself and the world around me. It is always important, but perhaps even more important today when we see that both human dignity and democracy are actually being called into question in some places. Higher education is a core component of our community-building. It's an investment that's paid off well. Our country is one of the world's most innovative countries. If it had been as usual, I would have said that unemployment is low and that our economy is good. It is right now. But what is happening in our country and the world around us is affecting the economy and unemployment for the worse. The world has agreed to meet the UN's 17 sustainability goals. I believe that this work must permeate everything we do, not least as a tool for promoting equality and good health for all. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-439	Madam President, I would like The country's universities are closed. It was on Tuesday morning that the Minister for Higher Education and Research announced that the Swedish Public Health Agency is calling on Swedish universities and colleges to discontinue all campus education with corona spread as a reason. Preparedness to switch to distance teaching via digital platforms is available at higher education institutions. Several universities, including the universities in Stockholm, Uppsala and Gothenburg, but also the universities in Dalarna, Kristianstad and Halmstad, had already announced before the announcement that they were ready to go to digital education or had already done so. This is an extreme situation with more than 400 000 students affected. Concerns about my own economy, if my education is discontinued, have been well dealt with at an early stage by the government. Students should be allowed to retain the student grants that are decided upon. Reimbursement claims shall not be sent to students who lose their places of study. We have also been told that the number of weeks or semesters that each student has the right to receive student funding should not be adversely affected if an education is discontinued. Of course, however, there are still concerns about their own training and the quality of their training. This is something that the higher education institutions, departments and course managers at each department will have to work on now. But the message so far is that there should be readiness. Students should now be able to focus in peace and quiet on their further studies. This is an important principle, not only in times of crisis but also in more normal times. Everyone must have the right to education and have real opportunities for higher education. This is something that the government and the Green Party have been pushing for a long time and which we are prioritising. We will remove structural barriers and increase opportunities. We do so through active recruitment policy. The whole country's coming. We have universities from north to south. But we also develop distance learning and the pedagogy of distance learning. The increase in the number of places in higher education continues. Last term of office, the MP-S government raised the study funds. Student housing also continues to expand at a fairly high rate. In my own constituency and municipality of residence, the City of Stockholm, a number of major construction projects are now under way, often with over 100 new student apartments in each, and not least in the new Campus Albano, which is being opened in stages from this year onwards and which will provide around 1,000 new student apartments in the near future. In this way, we lower the thresholds to higher education and create opportunities. Of course, it is extremely important for the quality of education to be included. There are no shortcuts here. No new sites should be unfunded. On the contrary, in several subjects, not least in humanities and social sciences, more teacher-led lessons are needed. Students need access to teachers to a greater extent than they currently have. Unfortunately, for quite a long time now, we have seen a erosion of the economic conditions for conducting education and planning and providing courses of high quality for the students. We need to raise funding for humanities and social sciences in order to ensure the quality of education. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say a few words about the motion that I myself have written and which is included in the basis of the report. It is exercise 1512, which deals with students' psychosocial health and work environment. What I am asking for there is partly a national survey of our students' mental health and partly a clarification of the student health's mission so that it becomes equivalent and works in a similar way at all our universities, because unfortunately that is not the case today. I also write about the students' possibility of sick leave and rehabilitation need to be improved. Students are a group that unfortunately feels pretty bad, seen all over the group. We know that students have a higher degree of mental illness than the corresponding age groups among the working population. There are certainly a number of reasons for this, which should be addressed. But we need to know more, get a better knowledge base in order to be able to put in place the right measures. I will not be in favour of the motion. I don't have to, because the government has since I wrote the motion last autumn done a lot. CSN was commissioned by the government at the end of the year to focus in particular on the students' mental health. At the same time, UKÄ, the University Chancellor's Office, was tasked with identifying the equivalence of student health at the country's higher education institutions. These are good measures so far. Now we wait for the results and then see how to move on from them, because mental illness really needs to be met and treated now. This does not only apply to students, even if they are a risk group or whatever one should call it. This is also an issue that concerns quite a few parliamentary committees. The situation and work situation of teachers and researchers also need to be addressed in some way. Our universities are not very good employers, unfortunately. The proportion of permanent, short-term and part-time contracts is far too high. You can go through an entire research life without permanent employment with stacked certids, temporaries, temporary scholarships and grants. It's not a good situation. I think it is important that we increase the basic appropriations. But then those resources must go to job security, not primarily to increased research funding for already established researchers. Basic research will continue to come largely through the research councils. I think that is important, at least when we talk about the state part of the funding. Finally, I would like to say something more about the humanities. It is needed to question and analyse our history and our time – important not least in times of crisis that we are in right now. Humanities is needed to create resilient, resilient societies that can stand up when structures are threatened, when democracy is threatened. It is needed to ask the new and relevant research questions and, of course, many other things. As I mentioned earlier, funding for humanities has been eroded for a long time. There is widespread ignorance and, to some extent, incomprehension of the importance of the humanities. We need to get away from that. We need to build a stronger platform for humanities at our universities in terms of both research and education. There is interest and there are students, and they are interested, so let's just do it. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-bed2ca0eba32bd3a-455	Madam President, I would like In fact, it is my colleague Ilona Szatmari Waldau who usually represents us on these issues, but I am replacing her during this debate. Madam President, I would like As mentioned earlier, the Swedish Public Health Agency and the Government have called on universities to move to distance learning in order to avoid a rapid spread of the Corona virus. But while we are working on the emergency measures, we need to look forward to improving for higher education institutions and higher education in the future. There will also come a time after the corona that we need to think about. Some of those studying at our universities today come from countries outside the EU and the EEA. Since Sweden introduced fees for these, only those who come from families with financial resources can study here. The Left Party believes that it is positive that students from all over the world can come to Sweden to study. It enriches the Swedish university and contributes to increased quality. Since the introduction of the fees, we have seen a sharp decrease in the number of foreign students, although it has started to increase slightly again, probably due to the currently low krona rate. When a student pays a fee and thus can be said to buy an education on the market, it is common that he/she is not satisfied with his/her education in Sweden and wants his/her money back. A judgment from the Supreme Court also says that students who pay a fee should receive the fee back if the teaching is considered to be substandard. The Left Party believes that tuition fees should be removed and has therefore proposed the creation of an investigation. The mission shall be to propose how the fees for non-European students can be removed. Students with disabilities are less satisfied with their education, have a more negative experience of their studies and feel less at home in higher education environments than other students. This is shown by a report from the Swedish Council for Higher Education (UHR). Many universities have appointed coordinators for accessibility work and work to prevent and eliminate both physical and economic barriers. However, the proportion of higher education institutions that have action plans has unfortunately decreased. Another important aspect is access to good quality educational support. Pedagogical support can include adapted examinations, extra supervision, interpretation or literature on adapted medium. It is now also threatened by a lack of resources. In connection with the budget, the Left Party proposed a further SEK 1 000 per student. This would give the university additional resources to increase support for students with disabilities. In view of this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 12, which contains proposals for students with disabilities and proposals on tuition fees and hidden costs – all for a college for everyone! In 2019, the mandate for gender mainstreaming was completed in higher education institutions and universities. The gender equality authority, who was in charge, assessed that any continuation of the mandate after 2019 could be crucial to halt or not work on gender mainstreaming. The Left Party believes that gender equality work is an important part of a college for everyone. It is not sustainable for women to be disadvantaged. That is why we have proposed that the project Gender mainstreaming in higher education institutions and universities should continue.
