i-88d270f75eed5364-2	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation in the report. As we have said before, we are in favour of the government's extension of the conversion aid. We also welcome the fact that the government is finally making sure to give priority to individual companies that have been hit hard during the pandemic. We are also pleased that the government chooses to extend the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal. Although much of what is being dealt with in the report is good, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight some things that we believe can be done better. We believe that the government is showing clear tendencies to act too slowly and without the power of action that a government should demonstrate at a time when the country is in crisis. Prime Minister Löfven went confidently ahead of the 2014 elections and promised that the Social Democrats would ensure that Sweden received the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. It was a promise that didn't really go the way it was supposed to, I guess. With enormous migration, ineffective integration efforts and segregation, it is also no easy task to fulfill such a promise to our voters. The fact that the government will use the pandemic as a pretext for unemployment in the forthcoming election movement is a prophecy that will in all likelihood be fulfilled. And although the pandemic is, of course, the reason why unemployment has run out recently, I would like to take this opportunity to remind the Swedish people that even before the pandemic we had an increasing unemployment and an extremely segregated labour market, in fact the most segregated in Europe. The reason it looked like that doesn't require any deeper analysis. Rather, it is the effect of a series of bad decisions. Everyone also knows that subsidised employment conceals a large part of unemployment. And then one should know that this development was going on during a long and stable boom. The creation of four out of five jobs in SMEs is a fact. Then it should not be so difficult to figure out where we should invest the resources in the amending budget. We believe, as I said, that the government's extension of the conversion aid is positive. However, we wonder why August is not covered and why the government chooses to provide support in the form of a stairway during the transition phase. In our view, the condition that the total net turnover should have decreased by more than 30% should apply for the entire support period. Furthermore, we believe that the aid should also cover the month of August, not least in view of the situation of the tourism industry. It is also strange that the government's argument that companies should reschedule in a time of crisis is a fact of life. The government cites a few examples of activities that could be re-scheduled: a restaurant that needs to sell a larger part of the food as a take-over, and a taxi business that can switch to deliveries and manufacturing companies that switch to the production of, for example, medical supplies. Of course, it is reasonable that many businesses choose to switch. Maybe it's just a survival instinct. But there is a limited number of activities that have the opportunity and potential to reset. This testifies, therefore, to the inability of the Social Democratic Government to understand how entrepreneurship works in practice. It is also positive that the government has chosen to comply with the committee's demand to target support to individual traders. Another example of action could have been an extension of short-term lay-off for individual companies, but in essence we support the government's proposed support model. However, we believe that the condition that the total net turnover should have decreased by more than 30% should apply throughout the aid period also during this point. During the initial phase of the crisis, the government promised to abolish the withdrawal of the withdrawal, something that we in the Swedish Democrats were pleased about, looked positively at and supported. However, we were disappointed when it turned out that this was not the way the government had communicated. The amount was flattened, which in practice meant that the withdrawal of the withdrawal date was not at all the case. In the long run, it meant that people could not be at home in the way intended. The fact that the government subsequently chose to fulfil its promise and increased the flat-rate amount is to be welcomed, although it does not deserve to be called the abolition of the withdrawal. We recommend that the government make a proposal that the state should replace the full withdrawal during the pandemic. Otherwise, we support the Government's proposal to compensate employers for sickness pay costs beyond the normal level. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to mention something about the outdoor organisations, which have also been severely affected during the pandemic as well as the rest of society. We in the Swedish Democrats would prefer to see a distribution of resources between the funds, because support for outdoor organisations is completely without financial aid in the Government's proposal. Swedish outdoor life serves our civil society well. That is why we believe that the government should distribute differently.
i-88d270f75eed5364-15	Madam President, I would like Wash your hands, keep your distance and take care of each other! I don't think that can be said too many times in these times. Madam President, I would like I thought I'd keep it short. I think it is good that the increased compensation in the unemployment fund should be extended and that the changes made to the regulations should be maintained. I am also pleased that this is in the budget for 2021 and 2022. If there's one thing you should realize, it's that people don't get out of work because they want to, but because they actually lose their job. Then they must have financial security. You've lost your job and you don't really know how it's gonna go. We can all be there one day. Then you want there to be food on the table, that the children can continue to live their lives and that you can stay. It is therefore important to have a reasonable remuneration in the unemployment fund. It should be permanent. It is also good that the contribution to abolishing the withdrawal of the withdrawal is maintained. We were out early with the unemployment fund and that you should remove the withdrawal. We were partially heeded. It is regrettable that the withdrawal of the Karen Day, the withdrawal of the withdrawal, or the way in which it is to be expressed, was not removed, but compensated for a certain part of the loss of income that people have. That means they don't get that much money in their wallets. A caretaker receives about SEK 480. It is this particular group that has a very difficult time being at home when they get sick. If you have a low income, it is very tiring to lose compensation for a whole day. Of course, 500 crowns is better than nothing. But that's not what they said it would be. After this pandemic, I might think the reasonable thing to do is to realize politically that people shouldn't be at work when they're sick. It has consequences not only for the individual who wears off his own strength, has a lower immune system and may even become ill to a greater extent. It also affects the others in the workplace. It can even be in a business where you work with elderly sick people or children, so that there is a very large spread of infection. Therefore, it is reasonable to permanentize the deleted – or how to say – Karen's Day. People shouldn't have to go to work when they're sick. It is important that people on low incomes can simply afford to be at home. The second point I would like to make is that it is a good thing to compensate for cultural and sporting life. The National Sports Federation has made its own good distribution, giving priority to children's and young people's sports and the loss that has been there. I was myself recently and met the sports association at home. You were very happy about the money that has come, and you were very clear that you need more money. Compensation had been paid for perhaps 10 - 20 percent of the loss of income. It has consequences in society and in children's and young people's activities. It's good that there's more money coming. I want to lift that up. The third point I want to make is the support for individual traders, which we have highlighted and for which we received a majority in committee. This meant that the government would come back with special support for individual traders. It is a group that has been hit very hard in this crisis. Now there is support in place. It took the government a very long time. That is why the Moderates took a new initiative in committee, which was welcome. There are many people who have gone very badly during the crisis. It was absolutely necessary to obtain the aid. It is regrettable that it has taken so long, but now it is here. The last thing I want to mention is that we have re-trained. The conversion aid is to be extended. There have been many good and important support for companies in the crisis to save jobs and healthy businesses. But you cannot simply continue to extend aid without limiting it. I do not think it is reasonable for Volvo or other such large companies to receive compensation from taxpayers for a turnover step. They have own owners with a lot of capital. The taxpayers should not have to go in and protect. There are companies that have it much tougher. There should have been restrictions on conversion aid and not just let it go to all the companies out there. I just don't think that's reasonable. You have to be more afraid than that of taxpayers' money even when there is a crisis. One day, all this will be paid for. Then it is the assistant nurse, the caretaker and the others who are allowed to carry the heaviest load. They're the ones with the lowest incomes. They are the ones most affected when there are cuts in welfare, which I think it unfortunately does. Madam President, I would like I call for the Left Party's reservation to be approved.
i-88d270f75eed5364-30	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Christian Democratic reservation which has been given No 3 in the report. Madam President, I would like The pandemic is far from over. We have had clear signs of this in recent weeks and days regarding the spread of infection both in the world and in Sweden. The effects of the pandemic are also far from over. Some who know it especially take are the individual traders. In practice, many of them have lived without income and without pay for a long time or with very little income. These include, in particular, people in the cultural sector, the event sector and small-scale tourism. They are sound technicians, programme sheet designers, bassists, photographers, singers and bike guides. They work in a wide range of activities that put gold edge on the lives of others. They've been having a really tough time this time. On 20 March, I highlighted the need to ensure that aid corresponding to lay-off aid is also granted to small businesses and individual traders. This is an issue that I have come back to in the Committee on Finance and in other contexts in the spring. The government has been extremely slow about this. There has been no such support on the ground. It has not been ensured that existing aid has been adapted so that it has reached the individual traders. This spring, the Riksdag therefore called on the government to come back with support. Even then, the government delayed. It was not until the Christian Democrats and the Moderates put forward a joint further proposal for initiative after the summer with proposals for concrete reforms that the government got the end of the cart and developed a support that I consider to be good. It's targeted and real. It will mean a great deal to a lot of hard-working small businesses in Sweden. Finally! I think we could say this about the support that we are now deciding on. If the government has listened and finally responded to the problem for the individual, it has not done so for the broad Swedish civil society. We have a new product at the Riksdag table where the government has not really understood what a difficult situation Association Sweden and the broad Swedish civil society are in. It has been referred to a conversion aid that has not worked fully for the association, because it has different types of revenue from what companies have. The government has directed support to cultural life in several rounds. That's good. It is very good that there is further support for the sports movement. As was done last spring, this amending budget is now being filled up. It is much needed to manage a good sport for not least children and young people. But civil society is wider than that. This is the case for those organisations that are persistently extending a hand to those who are in need of help and who are in need. They themselves have had great costs to reset in order to continue to do so. They bleed themselves financially and may not always be the best ones to point out their own needs precisely because they are so focused on others. I would have liked there to be much more support for them in this budget, just as for other associations which also provide the warmth, care and community that we need not only today and during the pandemic, but which we will need in the future. Then it is important that we still have a warm and vibrant civil society and that we have not had to close down our activities. I think that the government's proposal is flawed. There is a little bit of small money in addition to sports and culture, but it is too little. It is regrettable that no more parties than the Christian Democrats and the Left Party this spring supported the initiative to do more for the broad Swedish civil society. Madam President, I would like The conversion aid is now being extended. That's also very good. It has been an important support to mitigate bankruptcies and redundancies and to ensure that companies can overwinter and regain confidence in the future. However, I regret that the government's announcement that the conversion aid is being extended has delayed. This in itself has caused some uncertainties. As a result, companies have hesitated about some of the investments they might have planned to make. But it is very good that it is now in place. Madam President, I would like We make a long series of decisions in the Swedish Parliament that hopefully mitigates the consequences of the pandemic. This is also an opportunity for us to thank all those who are fighting hard for Sweden to work even in these times. It is the health and care staff who are making a great deal of effort. It is everyone who follows the recommendations as best as possible and ensures that we keep the spread of infection at a low level and that we pass the care and care. I would like to express my thanks to those who go to work and who are making great efforts to maintain our well-being and to all those entrepreneurs who, with their entrepreneurship, make Sweden better. I am very pleased that today we can decide on support for those who have been fighting for many months now without knowing whether they will survive as entrepreneurs. I am very pleased.
i-88d270f75eed5364-45	Madam President, I would like During the spring, society as a whole has gathered strength. Despite this, the pandemic has hit Sweden hard. When we stand here today to debate the 10th supplementary amending budget, it is in a serious economic situation. In Sweden and in our most important export countries, companies fail, and unemployment is rising. Unemployment is not just a problem for the individual; it concerns us all. If we allow it to stand firm, we risk our common welfare. On Monday, Madam President, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson presented to this House the Government's budget proposal for 2021. It is based on an agreement between the government parties, the Center Party and the Liberals. It is a budget that follows up the spring's historic crisis package with a powerful start-up package of SEK 105 billion. It is a budget for working Sweden out of the crisis. Everyone who can work should work – it lays the foundation for all the policies that we want to pursue, whether it is more money to combat crime, to strengthen well-being or to speed up climate change. With our draft budget, 75 000 new jobs will be created. By putting the jobs first, we can equip Sweden and build our society stronger. Madam President, I would like When the pandemic struck, the parliament and government took strong action to quickly get new financial support in place. In total, we have exhibited measures for over SEK 200 billion and many times more in loans and guarantees. Even then, there was considerable uncertainty about the future economic situation, and so do now. Although we see some lightening, the outlook depends to a large extent on how the disease situation will develop in our exporting countries and also at home in Sweden. Right now we are seeing how countries around us have increased the spread of infection again. During the spring we worked with a clear strategy: In the first place, the spread of infection should be limited. Therefore, the state went in and took all the extraordinary costs of health care and care. In order to make it easier for people to stay at home, we have temporarily abolished the withdrawal by introducing a lump sum, while at the same time compensating the self-employed according to the same standard. Now we are adding additional resources so that the changes will apply until December. The pandemic has also hit hard on jobs and companies. Short-term lay-offs, which quickly arrived, have saved thousands of jobs and involve over half a million Swedes. In June, we introduced conversion aid to companies that in March and April had a decrease in net sales compared to last year. Now we have also seen that many seasonal operations during the summer have had significantly lower turnover than usual. Therefore, the conversion aid is now being extended to those companies with reduced net sales even in May, June and July compared with the previous year. In this way, we provide those companies that have been severely affected with extra breathing space in order to be able to reset their operations and retain their staff. Today, we are also deciding on specific support for individual traders to help them overcome the economic consequences of the pandemic. SEK 3.5 billion will be added for a new searchable support to the individual traders who have had an income gap from March to July. In order to further lift the costs for employers, the government took over the costs of sickness pay until September. Now we are adding an additional 2.9 billion for the rules to apply until December. Employers are compensated for the part of the cost of sick pay that exceeds the normal cost, while the requirement for a medical certificate during the sick pay period is abolished for the same period of time. In addition to the general measures, some sectors have been particularly affected. We have all seen the consequences of the pandemic for culture, for sport and for civil society. The ban on public gatherings of more than 50 people to stop the spread of infection has allowed, for example, cinema screenings, theatre performances, concerts and sporting events to be cancelled or moved forward. That is why we are now expanding previous support. Culture will receive an additional SEK 1.5 billion, and we will increase support for state museums by SEK 25 million. Sports is added SEK 1 billion. For civil society, we are deciding today on additional resources for religious communities and youth activities around the country and on support for public spaces and the non-profit sector. In this way, we ensure that culture, sport and civil society can maintain activities throughout the country. Despite the government's strong actions, many people have lost their jobs. This is precisely why we have extended the improvements of the unemployment insurance fund while continuing the expansion of higher education institutions and universities so that those who have lost their job will meet both security and good opportunities for transition. Today, funds are being provided for a special investigator who will be working to assist the Swedish Council for Higher Education in coordinating the university test in an infectious manner. This is how we strengthen preparedness for the future and create the opportunity for more people to go to universities and colleges in a serious economic situation. Madam President, I would like The pandemic is by no means over. We need to continue to hold on, to hold on and to keep our distance. Now the whole of society needs to gather together to get us out of the crisis. Therefore, as a Social Democrat, I am proud that with our draft budget for 2021 we invest in what builds Sweden sustainably while people get back to work. Through a strong and green restart package, we create the conditions for a vibrant business community that is not dependent on government subsidies. When everyone who can work also works, we lay the foundation for our common prosperity. With the 10th supplementary amending budget, we are moving forward with measures of over SEK 17 billion. We can afford it thanks to strong public finances that are now using our common strength to protect lives, jobs and well-being. With today's decision, we continue to equip Sweden and build a stronger and safer society. With that, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-88d270f75eed5364-62	Madam President, I would like Finally! Finally, we get support for the individual traders in place! It is small businessmen who have struggled for six months and who have had little or no income, which for many has meant no pay. It hasn't been the government's credit. It has not been the cooperation parties that have stood on the barricades and called for action, but it has been the Moderates with the support of the Christian Democrats and after talks with the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats. Madam President, let me come back to that. Sometimes it is a person who becomes the person who changes the course of events. I dare say that this person is Elin Örebrand from Klabböle outside Umeå. She is a single mother of three and a musician who has struggled hard for 20 years. She has made a living on everything from being a barpianist and going up to the mountains and playing on apterski to going down here to Stockholm to go on Finnish ferries and play. It's her life and her livelihood, and it gives her and her family shelter over her head. She's just one of a lot of people who got in touch when it became clear that this government wasn't going to listen to them. Then they started to get in touch – at first a little cautious but then more and more: What happens to us? Are we going to get some of these emergency packages? Most of them, of course, assumed that they too would be reached by some form of aid. That was not the case, however. Small entrepreneurs who had chosen an individual firm as a company form got caught up. They waited patiently and for a very long time. It was only on 17 June, following the initiative of the Moderates, that this House sent a unanimous announcement to the government to urgently return with support to those who had not yet received support – urgently return. Then what did this government do? Yeah, it went on vacation. In two months nothing happened – absolutely nothing, Madam President! It was ignored that these people were actually fighting for their lives – for their businesses and for their ability to make a living. Moderate economic-political spokesperson Elisabeth Svantesson began to press on in July. Then it would have been a month since the decision. The answer from the government was really nothing. There was no work going on. In August, together with the Christian Democrats, we called together the Committee on Finance. What we said was that we will make law directly in the Riksdag if the government does not want to participate in the work. Elin and 600 000 other individual traders had not yet received any help, no crisis support. Madam President, I would like Men choose public limited companies as corporate forms to a greater extent, while women choose individual companies much more often. They're doing exactly the same job. They pay taxes and contribute to society, but they have chosen different forms of companies. There are various reasons why this is the case, but roughly simplified the men who had limited liability companies got emergency support immediately, while the women who had chosen individual company form have now had to wait six months for a government that has reluctantly had to make a proposal. We Moderates stated from the outset that this was unreasonable. You cannot leave 600 000 small businesses without crisis support. It was only when we threatened to run over the government in the Riksdag that they actually came and wanted to help get crisis support in place. In fact, a government that calls itself feminist and behaves in this way should be ashamed, Madam President. If you call yourself feminist, I think that's an obligation. But that's how it's been done, unfortunately. And a government that takes a holiday when thousands and thousands of small businesses are at risk of bankruptcy should not return after the holiday. It should hand over to other parties and other forces that actually want to do the job. Faced with the fact that Parliament intended to run it over on this particular issue, the government came to the negotiating table and began to do some kind of work on the matter. But then we were in August. Many of those with an individual firm can be described as wage-working entrepreneurs. What is your income is also your salary. You sell your time, either as a technician, as a musician or as a consultant. For a musician like Elin Örebrand, for example, the pandemic, or rather the measures to stop the pandemic, has almost meant a ban on nutrition. She and her colleagues, as well as people in many other industries, have not been able to carry out their activities. This means that you have spent six months without the income that is also your salary. Today's decision in Parliament means that we are now getting these crisis support in place – far too late, with far too long waiting, but we will save jobs and companies that would otherwise have been lost. As many have already mentioned, Madam President, the pandemic is not over. For many small businesses it will continue to be impossible to operate. We Moderates now assume that the government is doing its part to get crisis support in place even forward. Today's decision makes us repair the damage of the months that have passed. This government is competing with its partner parties to take credit for the various emergency packages we get in place. Madam President, I would like to see help this time in both getting the proposals out and getting them through in this House. I think that would be better than trying to rewrite history afterwards. A large part of the financial emergency packages decided by the Riksdag are moderate proposals. Without the Moderates, many of the emergency packages would simply never have arrived. On 18 March, the Moderates presented a proposal for a business case with government interest-rate guarantees. On 25 March, the government adapted to this. On 23 March, the Moderates presented a proposal on state aid for the rental costs of companies. On 25 March, the government adapted to this. On 23 March, the Moderates presented a proposal for the abolition of employers' contributions. On March 25, the government agreed. On 23 March, the Moderates presented a proposal for a reduced interest rate on tax credits. On 14 April, the government agreed to this. On April 7, the Moderates presented a proposal for full-time lay-off. On 14 April, the government adapted to this. On April 7, the Moderates presented a proposal for sales support to save jobs and businesses. On 30 April, the government agreed to it as well. On 26 May, the Moderates presented a proposal of SEK 100 million in state aid to regional airports. On 14 June, the government adapted to this. Today's decision, where, as I said, we are finally getting crisis support in place for Elin and many of the 600 000 individual traders who have not yet received crisis support, comes after the Moderates have pushed for this too. Madam President, I would like Today's decision will save many small businesses. It will save many people's chances of pay. It's days like this that it's actually fun to be a politician. It is the reward for all the hard work we do when we can really help people and make a difference. That's the reward for what we're doing. I support the supplementary amending budget, Madam President, and I hope, as I said, that all parties in the Swedish Parliament now want to contribute also in terms of getting the emergency packages in place in the future.
i-88d270f75eed5364-83	Madam President, I would like We have had a very special spring, a spring that we will all remember and which was followed by a summer that we will all remember. I would like to begin by expressing my thanks and that of the Center Party to all those who have fought hard and urgently to deal with the current pandemic crisis and its damaging effects. I understand what sacrifices have been made, what has been demanded and what it has meant in the form of grief for many. It's about stakes in large and small, and all stakes are important – those that you do and those that I do. As autumn begins, we must not relax and think that the situation is calm. We see that countries in our surrounding world are closing down and restrictions are being re-established. In order to reduce the damage, especially to people's lives and health, but also to the economy, it is important that everyone takes on their responsibilities, regardless of their role in society. The role that I and the Center Party play is to create peace in a turbulent time. At Parliament's table today we have another amending budget that will provide security and peace of mind for those who are severely affected by the crisis. It is for occasions like this that we have built our economy strong. It is for occasions that the Center Party has participated, taken responsibility and strengthened Sweden's public finances. It is in crises that this we can now act forcefully. The conversion aid is now being strengthened and further extended. It is an incredibly important crisis measure that is absolutely necessary for the crisis-stricken companies around the country. This is an issue that the Center Party has pushed hard for. We know that it is crucial that as many companies as possible get out of the crisis and can continue to operate. It is crucial for people to have a job to go to and to have a strong economy on the other side of covid-19. Madam President, I would like Not all people are employed. Not all people have a limited liability company where they can give themselves short-term leave. Many are individual traders. These heroes who create their own work, pay taxes and help our common well-being are an important cog in the construction of Swedish society. They have not been able to take sufficient note of the crisis measures that have been announced in the past. That is why we are now introducing turnover-based support precisely for individual traders. It is an important equality measure, as has also been mentioned in the speaker's previous speech, for many more women than men choose to be individual traders rather than public limited liability companies. This support can be applied for as early as this autumn and is something that we in the Center Party have pushed hard for in negotiations with the government. Important extensions are also being made to other crisis measures. We'll extend the allowance for sick pay expenses the year out. Culture and sport receive increased funding. In this context, it is also important to highlight all the individual cultural practitioners who have had difficulties in obtaining support in the past. Thanks to turnover support for individual traders, many of them will now also receive compensation for surviving the crisis. The faith communities are also gaining increased access to funds. This is part of civil society, and civil society is important. Non-profit involvement is a key part of Swedish society. When we are on the other side, it is important that large parts of it remain. That is why we are also strengthening our efforts to, for example, public spaces. This amending budget amounts to 17.2 billion. A large part of it goes to the turnover support for companies. We know that if we are to keep unemployment down, protect companies and get out of this crisis on the other hand, the state must make a heavy effort. With that, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal in the report.
i-88d270f75eed5364-93	Madam President, I would like I know there are many with me who this spring and summer have missed leaving the phone for a while and going and experiencing something that is a little more real and along with other people. I also know that those who give this to us – all cultural creators, cultural practitioners, cultural activities and institutions – have missed and longed to give it to us and continue to create and deliver culture of various kinds. They want to continue with the film productions and plan for the next set. But so much of this has gone down. As we long to get squeezed a bit again in front of a scene and feel the closeness and nerve of it! For that to happen, we have to do a series of things. The government already started in the spring by directing crisis support to culture, the culture that has had to shift downwards due to the restrictions that are now in place. But that is not enough; we must also help and support culture for a fresh start. The supplementary amending budget that we are discussing today contains a new large amount of crisis support for culture. It is about keeping culture under your arms during this time but will also be used as a contribution to designing disease-proof productions and creating art that can be delivered even under restrictions. Because we have to think about the idea that they might be around for a while. It would be valuable if cultural life could get started. At least as important is that in the budget that we debated the other day and which applies to next year there is a proper incentive to culture. For next year we hope to be the big start-up year, and even then we will be with the culture and help start up again. The different stages are each just as important, for Sweden should be a strong cultural nation even after this crisis. Madam President, I would like Many cultural practitioners operate as an individual firm. It is not always because you have chosen it yourself, but often because it is what works. For example, many operators require an F tax note – you are a little cautious about hiring. This brings us to another important part of the supplementary amending budget, and that is the turnover aid that is now being directed at the individual firms. It is extremely important that we get it in place, for cultural life but also for everyone else who has an individual firm. During the spring we have jointly here in Parliament and jointly within the January cooperation delivered crisis reforms at an incredibly high rate. I am extremely proud that we have made it. However, we have always said that when you work so fast, everything will not be perfect. If I am to stand here and actually dare to be self-critical, the point is that we have not been able to obtain support for individual companies more quickly. I gladly admit that if I had been able to do something again I would have worked even harder during the spring to get this in place faster. But now it's here. It has been incredibly difficult to find a form that can work, because the different firms act in a way that is different from other companies. We have endeavoured to make it as simple and unscaling as possible, and this has now been an obstacle for us in the process of designing support. But after much work and many discussions back and forth, we have now found a form, and I am extremely happy to present it so that we can roll it out now. It is high time that the individual firms also received targeted support, because they are at least as important as any other company. Madam President, I would like These were two parts of the supplementary amending budget that I wanted to highlight and which I consider to be extremely important. It also contains a number of other parts, such as an extended conversion aid and an extension of the measures so that no one should hesitate about whether to go to work or not if you feel symptoms. Everyone should really feel it in the morning, and if you feel symptoms you should stay at home without worrying about what happens at the end of the month. It is also an important measure. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report.
